FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20070405153919.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
March 30, 2007
(Date of earliest event reported)
Xcel Energy Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Item 2.03.  Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
Item 8.01.  Other Events
On March 30, 2007, Xcel Energy Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "Company"), entered into Supplemental Indenture No. 4 (the "Supplemental Indenture") to the Indenture dated December 1, 2000 between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee.  The Supplemental Indenture was executed in connection with the closing of the Company's exchange offer for its 7.0% Senior Notes due 2010 and sets forth the rights and provisions governing $253,979,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.631% Senior Notes due 2017 issued in the exchange offer.  Under the terms of the Supplemental Indenture, the notes will bear interest at a rate of 5.631% per year.  The Company will pay interest on the notes on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning October 1, 2007.  The notes will mature on April 1, 2017.  The notes are unsecured and rank equally with all of the Company's existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness.
This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed to report as exhibits certain documents in connection with that offer and exchange.
The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and were issued pursuant to the exemptions from registration provided by Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act.  In connection with the issuance of the notes, the Corporation entered into a Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2007, with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. and Lazard Capital Markets LLC (the "Registration Rights Agreement"). Under the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, the Corporation has agreed to file an exchange offer registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to allow holders to exchange the notes for a new issue of substantially identical notes that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
Supplemental Indenture dated March 30, 2007between Xcel Energy Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee, creating $253,979,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.613% Senior Notes, Series due 2017.
4.01
                                             
Registration Rights Agreement dated March 30, 2007 between Xcel Energy Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. and Lazard Capital Markets LLC.
10.01
                                       
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  April 5, 2007
 

Exhibit 4.01
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 4
FROM
XCEL ENERGY INC. (A MINNESOTA CORPORATION)
TO
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION TRUSTEE
DATED AS OF
MARCH 30, 2007
SUPPLEMENTAL TO INDENTURE DATED AS OF DECEMBER 1, 2000
 
 day of March, 2007, by and between XCEL ENERGY INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Minnesota (the "Company"), and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States, as trustee (the "Trustee").
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE No. 4, made as of the 30
th
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered its Indenture (hereinafter referred to as the "Indenture"), made as of December 1, 2000; and
WHEREAS, Section 2.5 of the Indenture provides that Securities shall be issued in series and that a Company Order shall specify the terms of each series; and
WHEREAS, the Company has this day delivered a Company Order setting forth the terms of two new series of Securities designated "5.613% Senior Notes, Series A due 2017" (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Series A Notes due 2017" or the "Initial Notes") and "5.613% Senior Notes, Series B due 2017" (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Series B Notes due 2017" or the "Exchange Notes"); and
WHEREAS, Section 12.1 of the Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee may enter into indentures supplemental thereto for the purposes, among others, of establishing the form of Securities or establishing or reflecting any terms of any Security and adding to the covenants of the Company; and
WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture No. 4 (herein, this "Supplemental Indenture") have been duly authorized by a resolution or written consent adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
That in order to set forth the terms and conditions upon which the Series A Notes due 2017 and the Series B Notes due 2017 are, and are to be, authenticated, issued and delivered, and in consideration of the premises of the purchase and acceptance of the Series A Notes due 2017 and the Series B Notes due 2017 by the Holders thereof and the sum of one dollar duly paid to it by the Trustee at the execution of this Supplemental Indenture, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the Company covenants and agrees with the Trustee for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective Holders from time to time of the Series A Notes due 2017 and the Series B Notes due 2017, as follows:
This Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
SECTION 1.01. 
For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture:
SECTION 1.02. 
(a)           Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings specified in the Indenture;
(b)           All references herein to Articles and Sections, unless otherwise specified, refer to the corresponding Articles and Sections of this Supplemental Indenture;
(c)           The terms "hereof," "herein," "hereby," "hereto," "hereunder" and "herewith" refer to this Supplemental Indenture; and
(d)           For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following respective meanings:
"Dealer Managers Agreement" means the Dealer Managers Agreement dated as of February 28, 2007 among the Company and the Dealer Managers.
"Dealer Managers" has the meaning set forth in the Dealer Managers Agreement.
"Exchange Notes" means the Series B Notes due 2017 to be issued under the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture in exchange for the Initial Notes pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
"Exchange Offer" means the offer by the Company, pursuant to an effective registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, to exchange all of the Series B Notes due 2017 for all of the outstanding Series A Notes due 2017 in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Registration Rights Agreement.
"Exchange Offer Consummation Date" means the date on which the Exchange Offer is consummated in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Registration Rights Agreement.
"Initial Notes" means the Series A Notes due 2017 being issued by the Company under the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture.
"Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of March 30, 2007 among the Company and the Dealer Managers.
There are hereby created two series of securities designated: (i) 5.613% Senior Notes, Series A due 2017, in the aggregate principal amount which at any time may not exceed $253,979,000 except as provided in Section 2.04 and (ii) 5.613% Senior Notes, Series B due 2017, in the aggregate principal amount which at any time may not exceed $253,979,000 less the aggregate principal amount of Series A Notes due 2017 then outstanding, except as provided in Section 2.04.
SECTION 2.01. 
2
The Series A Notes due 2017 may forthwith be executed by the Company substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto and delivered to the Trustee for authentication and delivery by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture.  On or prior to the Exchange Offer Consummation Date, the Company may execute and deliver to the Trustee, and upon delivery of a request from the Company to the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.5 of the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Series B Notes due 2017 substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto, in exchange for a like principal amount of Series A Notes due 2017 validly surrendered to the Company and/or the Trustee, as applicable, pursuant to the Exchange Offer and in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement.  Such request from the Company shall specify the amount of the Series B Notes due 2017 to be authenticated and delivered and the date on which such Series B Notes due 2017 are to be authenticated and delivered.  The aggregate principal amount of the Series A Notes due 2017 together with the Series B Notes due 2017 outstanding at any time may not exceed $253,979,000, except as provided in Section 2.04.
Except as otherwise provided in Sections 2.03 and 2.06 hereof, the principal amount of the Series A Notes due 2017 and Series B Notes due 2017 shall be payable on the stated maturity date of April 1, 2017.
SECTION 2.02. 
SECTION 2.03.
(a)           The Series A Notes due 2017 shall be dated their date of authentication as provided in the Indenture and shall bear interest from their date at the rate of 5.613% per annum, payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing October 1, 2007.  The Regular Record Dates with respect to such April 1 and October 1 interest payment dates shall be March 15 and September 15, respectively.  Principal and interest shall be payable to the persons and in the manner provided in Sections 2.4 and 2.12 of the Indenture.
(b)           The Series B Notes due 2017 shall be dated the date of authentication of the Series A Notes due 2017 that were exchanged for said Series B Notes due 2017 as provided in the Indenture and shall bear interest from the last interest payment date to which interest has been paid on the Series A Notes due 2017 that were exchanged for said Series B Notes due 2017 at the rate of 5.613% per annum, payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year.  The Regular Record Dates with respect to such April 1 and October 1 interest payment dates shall be March 15 and September 15, respectively.  Principal and interest shall be payable to the persons and in the manner provided in Sections 2.4 and 2.12 of the Indenture.
(c)           Any Initial Notes which are presented to the Company and/or the Trustee for exchange pursuant to an Exchange Offer in accordance with the terms thereof shall be exchanged for Exchange Notes of equal principal amount upon surrender to the Company and/or the Trustee of the Initial Notes to be exchanged; provided, however, that the Initial Notes so surrendered for exchange shall be duly endorsed and accompanied by a letter of transmittal or written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, duly executed by the Holder thereof or its attorney who shall be duly authorized in writing to execute such document.  Whenever any Initial Notes are so surrendered for exchange, the
3
Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to and in the name of each Holder that has properly tendered its Initial Notes for exchange, the same aggregate principal amount of Exchange Notes as the Initial Notes that have been so surrendered and such Initial Notes shall be retired.
SECTION 2.04.
(a)           The Company shall be entitled to issue additional notes ("Additional Notes") under this Supplemental Indenture which shall have identical terms as the Series A Notes due 2017 issued on the date hereof, other than with respect to the date of issuance, issue price, the date from which interest begins to accrue and rights under a related registration rights agreement, if any.  The Series A Notes due 2017 issued on the date hereof, any Additional Notes and all Exchange Notes issued in exchange therefor shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture, including without limitation, directions, waivers, consents and redemptions.
(b)           With respect to any Additional Notes, the Company shall set forth in a Company Order which shall be delivered to the Trustee, the information required by Section 2.5(c) of the Indenture including, but not limited to, the following information:
(i)            the aggregate principal amount of such Additional Notes to be authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture;
(ii)           the issue price, the issue date and the CUSIP number of such Additional Notes; and
(iii)          whether such Additional Notes shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein.
The Series A Notes due 2017 and Series B Notes due 2017 shall be payable at the corporate trust office of the Trustee and at the offices of such paying agents as the Company may appoint by Company Order in the future.
SECTION 2.05. 
SECTION 2.06.
The Company may redeem the Series A Notes due 2017 and/or the Series B Notes due 2017 at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (1) the principal amount of such notes being redeemed or (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest (excluding accrued interest) on the notes being redeemed, discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Yield plus 15 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued interest to the redemption date fixed for redemption.
"Treasury Yield" means, for any redemption date, (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is
4
published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the remaining term, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Yield will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month); or (2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date. The Treasury Yield will be calculated on the third business day preceding the date fixed for redemption.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Series A Notes due 2017 or Series B Notes due 2017, as the case may be, that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Series A Notes due 2017 or Series B Notes due 2017, as the case may be.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for the redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for the redemption date, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all of the quotations.
"Independent Investment Banker" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. or Lazard Capital Markets LLC or their respective successors or, if such firms or their successors are unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. and Lazard Capital Markets LLC and two other primary U.S. Government securities dealers in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer") designated by, and not affiliated with, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. and Lazard Capital Markets LLC and their respective successors, provided, however, that if Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. and Lazard Capital Markets LLC or any of its designees ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will appoint another Primary Treasury Dealer as a substitute and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company after consultation with the Independent Investment Banker.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, for each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by the
5
Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding the date fixed for redemption.
The Series A Notes due 2017 and Series B Notes due 2017 shall not be subject to any sinking fund.
SECTION 2.07.
(a)           The Series A Notes due 2017 and Series B Notes due 2017 shall be issued in fully registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof.
(b)           The Series A Notes due 2017 (1) if issued to "qualified institutional buyers" (each a "QIB"), as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act shall be issued in the form of one or more Rule 144A global notes or (2) if issued in offshore transactions to non-U.S. persons in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act shall be issued in the form of one or more Regulation S global notes, and in case of either (1) or (2) above, shall be deposited on behalf of the Holders of the Series A Notes due 2017 represented thereby with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depository, shall be registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee and the aggregate principal amount of Series A Notes due 2017 so issued may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depository or its nominee.  For purposes hereof, (A) "Rule 144A global notes" means one or more Global Securities deposited with a custodian for, and registered in the name of a nominee of, the Depository, interests in which will be held for the benefit of purchasers of securities in transactions under Rule 144A, and (B) "Regulation S global notes" means one or more Global Securities deposited with a custodian for, and registered in the name of a nominee of, the Depository, interests in which will be held for the benefit of purchasers of the securities in offshore transactions under Regulation S.
(c)           Except as provided in subparagraph (f) hereof, the Series A Notes due 2017 and the Series B Notes due 2017 are to be initially registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for the Depository.  Subject to subparagraphs (d), (e) and (f) hereof, such Series A Notes due 2017 and Series B Notes due 2017 shall not be transferable or exchangeable, nor shall any purported transfer be registered, except as follows:
(i)            such Series A Notes due 2017 and Series B Notes due 2017 may be transferred in whole, and appropriate registration of transfer effected, if such transfer is by such nominee to the Depository, or by the Depository to another nominee thereof, or by any nominee of the Depository to any other nominee thereof, or by the Depository or any nominee thereof to any successor securities depository or any nominee thereof; and
(ii)           such Series A Notes due 2017 and Series B Notes due 2017 may be exchanged for definitive Series A Notes due 2017 and Series B Notes due 2017 of the same series registered in the respective names of the beneficial owners
6
thereof, and, subject to subparagraph (d), (e) and (f) below, thereafter shall be transferable without restriction, if:
(A)          the Depository, or any successor securities depositary, shall have notified the Company and the Trustee that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as securities depository with respect to such Series A Notes due 2017 or Series B Notes due 2017, as the case may be, or the Depository has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Trustee shall not have been notified by the Company within ninety (90) days of the identity of a successor securities depository with respect to such Series A Notes due 2017 or Series B Notes due 2017, as the case may be; or
(B)           the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee a Company Order to the effect that such Series A Notes due 2017 or Series B Notes due 2017, as the case may be, shall be so exchangeable on and after a date specified therein.
(d)           All Series A Notes due 2017 and all beneficial interests in one or more Series A Notes due 2017 and all Securities issued upon registration of, transfer of, or in exchange for, any such Securities (other than Exchange Notes or Securities sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or Securities issued, directly or indirectly, upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, any such Securities), shall be restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act (collectively, "Restricted Securities") and shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer provided in the legends set forth on the Restricted Securities.  The registered Holder of each Registered Security, by such registered Holder's acceptance thereof, agrees to be bound by such restrictions on transfer.  All Restricted Securities shall bear on their faces the applicable legends limiting transferability set forth on the form the Series A Notes due 2017.
Each registered Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Security that is a Restricted Security will be deemed to have represented and agreed to offer, sell, pledge or otherwise transfer such beneficial interest only in accordance with the legend set forth on the face of the Restricted Securities.
Subject to the restrictions on transfer and exchange set forth herein and in the Indenture, the holder of any Series A Notes due 2017 or Series B Notes due 2017 issued hereunder may transfer or exchange such Series A Notes due 2017 or Series B Notes due 2017, as the case may be, in whole or in part by surrendering them at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or its agent, together with (A), an executed instrument of assignment and transfer (in the case of a transfer) or a written request for exchange (in the case of exchange), and, in the case of Series A Notes due 2017 that are Restricted Securities, a certificate substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto, and (B) additional certifications and evidence that such transfer or exchange is in compliance with the Securities Act and the restrictions on transfer set forth in such notes as may be required pursuant to the terms of this Supplemental Indenture.
7
(e)           The following provisions shall apply with respect to any proposed transfer of a Rule 144A global note or a beneficial interest therein:
(i)            a transfer of a Rule 144A global note or a beneficial interest therein to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A shall be made upon the representation of the transferee that it is purchasing the Series A Notes due 2017 for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a QIB and is aware that the sale to it is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as it has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon its foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A;
(ii)           a transfer of a Rule 144A global note or a beneficial interest therein in accordance with Regulation S shall be made upon receipt by the Trustee or its agent of a certificate substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit C hereto from the proposed transferor and, if requested by the Company or the Trustee, the delivery of an opinion of counsel, certifications and/or other information satisfactory to each of them.
(f)            The following provisions shall apply with respect to any proposed transfer of a Regulation S global note or a beneficial interest therein:
(i)            a transfer of a Regulation S global note or a beneficial interest therein to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A shall be made upon the representation of the transferee that it is purchasing the Series A Notes due 2017 for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a QIB and is aware that the sale to it is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as it has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon its foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A;
(ii)           a transfer of a regulation S global note or a beneficial interest therein in accordance with Regulation S shall be made upon receipt by the Trustee or its agent of a certificate substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit C hereto from the proposed transferor and, if requested by the Company or the Trustee, the delivery of an opinion of counsel, certifications and/or other information satisfactory to each of them.
Prior to or on the expiration of the 40-day "distribution compliance period" within the meaning of Rule 903 of Regulation S under the Securities Act (the "Distribution Compliance Period"), beneficial interests in a Regulation S global note may only be held through the operator of the Euroclear System ("Euroclear") or Clearstream Banking, a societe anonyme ("Clearstream") (as indirect participants in the Depository), or another
8
agent member of Euroclear or Clearstream acting for and on behalf of them, unless exchanged for interests in the Rule 144A global note in accordance with the certification requirements hereof.
During the Distribution Compliance Period, interests in the Regulation S global note, if any, maybe be exchanged for interests in the Rule 144A global note only in accordance with the certification requirements described in clause (i) of this subsection (f).
The Series A Notes due 2017 and Series B Notes due 2017 shall initially be in the form attached as Exhibit A hereto.
SECTION 2.08. 
The recitals of fact herein and in the Series A Notes due 2017 and Series B Notes due 2017 (except the Trustee's Certificate) shall be taken as statements of the Company and shall not be construed as made by the Trustee.
SECTION 3.01. 
This Supplemental Indenture shall be construed in connection with and as a part of the Indenture.
SECTION 3.02. 
SECTION 3.03.
(a)           If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision of the Indenture required to be included in indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (as enacted prior to the date of this Supplemental Indenture) by any of the provisions of Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of said Act, such required provisions shall control.
(b)           In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture or in the notes issued hereunder should be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and therein shall not in any way be affected, impaired, prejudiced or disturbed thereby.
Whenever in this Supplemental Indenture either of the parties hereto is named or referred to, this shall be deemed to include the successors or assigns of such party, and all the covenants and agreements in this Supplemental Indenture contained by or on behalf of the Company or by or on behalf of the Trustee shall bind and inure to the benefit of the respective successors and assigns of such parties, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 3.04. 
SECTION 3.05.
(a)           This Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in several counterparts, and all said counterparts executed and delivered, each as an original, shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
(b)           The Table of Contents and the descriptive headings of the several Articles of this Supplemental Indenture were formulated, used and inserted in this Supplemental Indenture for
9
convenience only and shall not be deemed to affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, XCEL ENERGY INC. has caused this Supplemental Indenture to be signed by its President or a Vice President, and attested by its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, has caused this Supplemental Indenture to be signed by its President, Vice President, Assistant Vice President or authorized Corporate Trust Officer, and attested by an authorized officer, this 30th day of March, 2007.
 
11
EXHIBIT A
FORM OF 5.613% SENIOR NOTES, SERIES [A]
1
 [B]
2
 DUE 2017
REGISTERED
[THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "SECURITIES ACT") OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAW. THE HOLDER HEREOF, BY PURCHASING THIS SECURITY, AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION THEREIN MAY BE OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED OTHER THAN (1) TO THE COMPANY, (2) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (3) SO LONG AS THIS SECURITY IS ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A"), TO A PERSON WHOM THE TRANSFEROR REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER, IN EACH CASE, TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE OFFER, RESALE, PLEDGE OR OTHER TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (4) TO NON-U.S. PERSONS IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (5) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, INCLUDING THAT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 (IF AVAILABLE) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHTS PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM (FORMS OF WHICH MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE COMPANY OR THE TRUSTEE) COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE.]
1 3
[THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS EXCEPT AS SET FORTH BELOW. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER REPRESENTS THAT IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.  BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF THE HOLDER AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR
 To be inserted only in Series A Notes due 2017.
1
 To be inserted in Series B Notes due 2017.
2
 To be inserted only in Rule 144A global note.
3
A-1
PARTICIPATION THEREIN MAY BE OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED OTHER THAN  (1) TO THE COMPANY, (2) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (3) SO LONG AS THIS SECURITY IS ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A"), TO A PERSON WHOM THE TRANSFEROR REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER, IN EACH CASE, TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE OFFER, RESALE, PLEDGE OR OTHER TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (4) TO NON-U.S. PERSONS IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (5) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, INCLUDING THAT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 (IF AVAILABLE) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHTS PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM (FORMS OF WHICH MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE COMPANY OR THE TRUSTEE) COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE.]
1 2
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY (REFERRED TO HEREIN) OR A NOMINEE THEREOF AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR THE INDIVIDUAL NOTES REPRESENTED HEREBY, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY THE DEPOSITORY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY. UNLESS THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK), TO THE TRUSTEE FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 To be inserted only in Series A Notes due 2017.
1
 To be inserted only in Regulation S global note.
2
 
A-2
 [B] DUE 2017
XCEL ENERGY INC. (Incorporated under the laws of the State of Minnesota) 5.613% SENIOR NOTE, SERIES [A]
1
2
 
XCEL ENERGY INC., a corporation of the State of Minnesota (the "Company"), for value received hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of                                                                                                          DOLLARS on the Maturity Date set forth above, and to pay interest thereon from the [Original Issue Date (or if this Global Security has two or more Original Issue Dates, interest shall, beginning on each such Original Issue Date, begin to accrue for that part of the principal amount to which that Original Issue Date is applicable) set forth above or]1 from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually in arrears on the April 1 and October 1 in each year, commencing on the first such Interest Payment Date succeeding the applicable Original Issue Date set forth above, at the per annum Interest Rate set forth above, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.  No interest shall accrue on the Maturity Date, so long as the principal amount of this Global Security is paid on the Maturity Date.  The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any such Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15, as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date; provided, that the first Interest Payment Date for any part of this Note, the Original Issue Date of which is after a Regular Record Date but prior to the applicable Interest Payment Date, shall be the Interest Payment Date following the next succeeding Regular Record Date; and provided, that interest payable on the Maturity Date set forth above or, if applicable, upon redemption or acceleration, shall be payable to the Person to whom principal shall be payable.  Except as otherwise provided in the Indenture (as defined below), any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and shall be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Securityholders not more than fifteen days or fewer than ten days prior to such Special Record Date.  On or before Noon, New York City time, or such other time as shall be agreed upon between the Trustee and the Depository, of the day on
 To be inserted by only in Series A Notes due 2017.
1
 To be inserted by only in Series B Notes due 2017.
2
A-3
which such payment of interest is due on this Global Security (other than maturity), the Trustee shall pay to the Depository such interest in same day funds.  On or before 11:30 a.m., New York City time, or such other time as shall be agreed upon between the Trustee and the Depository, of the day on which principal, interest payable at maturity and premium, if any, is due on this Global Security and following receipt of the necessary funds from the Company, the Trustee shall deposit with the Depository the amount equal to the principal, interest payable at maturity and premium, if any, by wire transfer into the account specified by the Depository.  As a condition to the payment, on the Maturity Date or upon redemption or acceleration, of any part of the principal and applicable premium of this Global Security, the Depository shall surrender, or cause to be surrendered, this Global Security to the Trustee, whereupon a new Global Security shall be issued to the Depository.
 [B] due 2017 (the "Notes of this Series", which term includes any Global Securities representing such Notes) of the Company issued and to be issued under an Indenture dated as of December 1, 2000 between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor Trustee under the Indenture) and indentures supplemental thereto (collectively, the "Indenture").  Under the Indenture, one or more series of Securities may be issued and, as used herein, the term "Securities" refers to the Notes of this Series and any other outstanding series of Securities. Reference is hereby made for a more complete statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities under the Indenture of the Company, the Trustee and the Securityholders and of the terms upon which the Securities are and are to be authenticated and delivered.  This Global Security has been issued in respect of the series designated on the prior page hereof [minus the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Series A Notes due 2017 that are not being exchanged for Notes of this Series].
This Global Security is a global security in respect of a duly authorized issue of Senior Notes, Series [A]
1
2
2
Each Note of this Series shall be dated and issued as of the date of its authentication by the Trustee and shall bear an Original Issue Date or Dates.  Each Security or Global Security issued upon transfer, exchange or substitution of such Security or Global Security shall bear the Original Issue Date or Dates of such transferred, exchanged or substituted Security or Global Security, as the case may be.
The Company may redeem the Notes of this Series at any time, in whole or in part upon no less than 30 or more than 60 days prior notice given in the manner and with the effect provided in Section 3.2 of the Indenture, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (1) the principal amount of such notes being redeemed or (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest (excluding accrued interest) on the relevant series of notes being redeemed, discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Yield plus 15 basis points, plus in each case accrued interest to the redemption date.
"Treasury Yield" means, for any redemption date, (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which
 
 To be inserted by only in Series A Notes due 2017.
1
 To be inserted by only in Series B Notes due 2017.
2
 
A-4
establishes yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the remaining term, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Yield will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month); or (2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date. The Treasury Yield will be calculated on the third business day preceding the date fixed for redemption.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes of this Series that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes of this Series.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for the redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for the redemption date, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all of the quotations.
"Independent Investment Banker" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc., Lazard Capital Markets LLC or their respective successors or, if such firms or their successors are unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. and Lazard Capital Markets LLC and two other primary U.S. Government securities dealers in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer") designated by, and not affiliated with, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. and Lazard Capital Markets LLC and their respective successors, provided, however, that if Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. and Lazard Capital Markets LLC or any of its designees ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, we will appoint another Primary Treasury Dealer as a substitute and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by us after consultation with the Independent Investment Banker.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, for each Reference Treasury Dealer and any date fixed for redemption, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding the date fixed for redemption.
A-5
Interest payments for this Global Security shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  In any case where any Interest Payment Date or date on which the principal of this Global Security is required to be paid is not a Business Day, then payment of principal, premium or interest need not be made on such date but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date or date on which the principal of this Global Security is required to be paid and, in the case of timely payment thereof, no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date or the date on which the principal of this Global Security is required to be paid.
The Company, at its option, and subject to the terms and conditions provided in the Indenture, will be discharged from any and all obligations in respect of the Securities (except for certain obligations including obligations to register the transfer or exchange of Securities, replace stolen, lost or mutilated Securities, maintain paying agencies and hold monies for payment in trust, all as set forth in the Indenture) if the Company deposits with the Trustee money, U.S. Government Obligations which through the payment of interest thereon and principal thereof in accordance with their terms will provide money, or a combination of money and U.S. Government Obligations, in any event in an amount sufficient, without reinvestment, to pay all the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities on the dates such payments are due in accordance with the terms of the Securities.
If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modifications of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Securityholders under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Global Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Global Security and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon the Note.
As set forth in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Securities will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to such Securities, the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities affected by such Event of Default shall have made written request and offered reasonable indemnity to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as Trustee and the Trustee shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; provided, however, that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of and any premium or interest on this Note on or after the respective due dates expressed here.
No reference herein to the Indenture and to provisions of this Global Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and
A-6
unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Global Security at the times, places and rates and the coin or currency prescribed in the Indenture.
[Any bonds of this series which are presented to the Company and/or the Trustee for exchange pursuant to an Exchange Offer in accordance with the terms thereof shall be exchanged for Exchange Bonds of equal principal amount upon surrender to the Company and/or the Trustee of the bonds of this series to be exchanged; provided, however, that the bonds of this series so surrendered for exchange shall be duly endorsed and accompanied by a letter of transmittal or written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, duly executed by the registered holder thereof or its attorney who shall be duly authorized in writing to execute such document.  Whenever any bonds of this series are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to and in the name of each registered holder that has properly tendered its bonds of this series for exchange, the same aggregate principal amount of Exchange Bonds as the bonds of this series that have been so surrendered.  For purposes hereof, the following defined terms shall have the meaning ascribed to them:
"Exchange Offer" means the offer by the Company, pursuant to an effective registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, to exchange the Exchange Notes for all of the outstanding notes of this series.
"Exchange Notes" means senior notes of the Company identical in all material respects to the notes of this series presented for exchange pursuant to the Exchange Offer (except that the transfer restrictions shall be modified or eliminated, as appropriate) and to be issued under the Indenture].
1
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Global Security may be transferred only as permitted by the legend hereto.
If at any time the Depository for this Global Security notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for this Global Security or if at any time the Depository for this Global Security shall no longer be eligible or in good standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation, the Company shall appoint a successor Depository with respect to this Global Security.  If a successor Depository for this Global Security is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company's election to issue this Note in global form shall no longer be effective with respect to this Global Security and the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of individual Notes of this Series in exchange for this Global Security, will authenticate and deliver individual Notes of this Series of like tenor and terms in definitive form in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Global Security.
 To be inserted by only in Series A Notes due 2017.
1
 
A-7
The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that all Notes of this Series (but not less than all) issued or issuable in the form of one or more Global Securities shall no longer be represented by such Global Security or Securities.  In such event, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of individual Notes of this Series in exchange for such Global Security, shall authenticate and deliver, individual Notes of this Series of like tenor and terms in definitive form in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such Global Security or Securities in exchange for such Global Security or Securities.
Under certain circumstances specified in the Indenture, the Depository may be required to surrender any two or more Global Securities which have identical terms (but which may have differing Original Issue Dates) to the Trustee, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to, or at the direction of, the Depository a Global Security in principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, and with all terms identical to, the Global Securities surrendered thereto and that shall indicate all Original Issue Dates and the principal amount applicable to each such Original Issue Date.  The Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Minnesota.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee, directly or through an Authenticating Agent by manual signature of an authorized officer, this Global Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
All terms used in this Global Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture unless otherwise indicated herein.
In Witness Whereof, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
A-8
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This Note is one of the Securities of the series herein designated, described or provided for in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
A-9
ABBREVIATIONS
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
 
the within security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney to transfer said security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
NOTICE:  The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
A-10
EXHIBIT B
[Form of Transferor Certificate]
CERTIFICATE TO XCEL ENERGY INC. AND TRUSTEE SERIES A NOTES DUE 2017
This is to certify that as of the date hereof with respect to U.S. $                 principal amount of the above-captioned securities presented or surrendered on the date hereof (the "Surrendered Notes") for registration of transfer or for exchange where the securities issuable upon such exchange are to be registered in a name other than that of the undersigned holder (each such transaction being a "transfer"), the undersigned holder of the Surrendered Notes represents and certifies for the benefit of Xcel Energy Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee, that the transfer of Surrendered Notes associated with such transfer complies with the restrictive legend set forth on the face of the Surrendered Notes for the reason checked below:
 These transfers may require an opinion of counsel.
1
B-1
EXHIBIT C
[Form of Regulation S Transfer Certificate]
[date]
Xcel Energy Inc. 800 Nicollet Mall, Suite 3000 Minneapolis, MN 55402
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association MAC N9303-110 Sixth and Marquette Avenue Minneapolis, MN 55479 Attention:  Dave Rubin
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen:
In connection with our proposed sale of $              aggregate principal amount of 5.613% Senior Notes, Series A due 2017 (the "Notes") of Xcel Energy Inc. (the "Company"), we confirm that:
the offer of the Notes was not made to a person in the United States;
(a)
                                 
either (i) at the time the buy order was originated, the transferee was outside the United States or we and any person acting on our behalf reasonably believed that the transferee was outside the United States or (ii) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated off-shore securities market and neither we nor any person acting on our behalf knows that the transaction has been pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States;
(b)
                                
no directed selling efforts have been made in the United States in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S, as applicable; and
(c)
                                 
the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
(d)
                                
In addition, if the sale is made during a Distribution Compliance Period (within the meaning of Regulation S), we confirm that, to the best of our knowledge after due inquiry, the purchaser is not a U.S. Person (within the meaning of Regulation S).
Further, if the sale is made during a Distribution Compliance Period and the provisions of Rule 903(a)(3) or Rule 904(b)(1) of Regulation S are applicable thereto, we confirm that such sale has been made in accordance with the applicable provisions of Rule 903(a)(3) or Rule 904(b)(1), as the case may be.
C-1
The Company and the Trustee are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.  Terms used in this certificate have the meanings set forth in Regulation S.
 
C-2

Exhibit 10.01
 
Registration Rights Agreement
Dated As of March 30, 2007
between
Xcel Energy Inc.
and
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated,
Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc.
and
Lazard Capital Markets LLC
 
REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
This Registration Rights Agreement (the "Agreement") is made and entered into this 30 day of March, 2007, between Xcel Energy Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "Company"), and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("Merrill Lynch") and Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. ("RBSGC") as lead dealer managers and Lazard Capital Markets LLC (collectively with Merrill Lynch and RBSGC, the "Dealer Managers") as co-dealer manager.
This Agreement is made pursuant to the Dealer Managers Agreement, dated February 28, 2007, among the Company and the Dealer Managers (the "Dealer Managers Agreement"), which provides for the offer by the Company to exchange its 5.613% Senior Notes, Series A due 2017 (the "New Notes") for up to $350,000,000 of its 7% Senior Notes, Series due 2010 (the "Existing Notes") validly tendered and not validly withdrawn, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Offering Memorandum dated February 28, 2007 (the "Offering Memorandum").  In order to induce the Dealer Managers to enter into the Dealer Managers Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide for the benefit of the Holders (defined below) the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.  The execution of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Dealer Managers Agreement.
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.            
Definitions.
As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
1933 Act
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of l934, as amended from time to time.
1934 Act
"" of any specified Person shall mean any other Person that, directly or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" of a Person shall mean the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person whether by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
"" shall mean an "automatic shelf registration statement" as that term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
"" shall mean the Settlement Date as defined in the Dealer Managers Agreement.
Closing Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Company's successors.
Company
"" shall mean The Depository Trust Company, or any other depositary appointed by the Company, , that such depositary must have an address in the Borough of Manhattan, in the City of New York.
Depositary
provided, however
"" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company of Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof.
Exchange Offer
"" shall mean a registration under the 1933 Act effected pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration
"" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form), and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all documents incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 hereof.
Exchange Period
"" shall mean the 5.613% Senior Notes, Series B due 2017, issued by the Company under the Indenture containing terms identical to the New Notes in all material respects (except for references to certain interest rate provisions, restrictions on transfers and restrictive legends), to be offered to Holders of New Notes in exchange for Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Exchange Securities
"" shall mean each Person who becomes the registered owner of Registrable Securities, and each Participating Broker-Dealer that holds Exchange Securities for so long as such Participating Broker-Dealer is required to deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
Holder
"" shall mean the Indenture relating to the New Notes, dated as of December 1, 2000, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as trustee, as the same may be amended, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
"" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding (as defined in the Indenture) Registrable Securities;  that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Securities held by the Company or any Affiliate (as defined in the Indenture) of the Company shall be disregarded in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage amount.
Majority Holders
provided
"" means the offer by the Company to exchange its Old Notes for New Notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn, on the terms and conditions set forth in the Offering Memorandum.
Original Exchange Offer
2
"" shall mean any Dealer Manager and any other broker-dealer which makes a market in the New Notes and exchanges Registrable Securities in the Exchange Offer for Exchange Securities.
Participating Broker-Dealer
"" shall mean an individual, partnership (general or limited), corporation, limited liability company, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" shall mean the prospectus included in a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including any such prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to a prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and in each case including all material incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
"" shall mean the New Notes; , , that the New Notes shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (i) a Registration Statement with respect to such New Notes shall have been declared or otherwise becomes effective under the 1933 Act and such New Notes shall have been disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement, (ii) such New Notes may be resold without restriction pursuant to Rule l44 (or any similar provision then in force, but not Rule 144A) under the 1933 Act, (iii) such New Notes shall have ceased to be outstanding or (iv) the Exchange Offer is consummated (except in the case of New Notes which may not be exchanged in the Exchange Offer).
Registrable Securities
provided
however
"" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation:  (i) all SEC, stock exchange or National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "NASD") registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws, (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements and other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and of the independent public accountants of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or "cold comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance and compliance, (vi) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, and any escrow agent or custodian, (vii) the reasonable documented fees and expenses of counsel to the Dealer Managers in connection therewith and (viii) any fees and disbursements of the underwriters customarily required to be paid by issuers or sellers of securities and the fees and expenses of any special experts retained by the Company in connection with any Registration Statement, but excluding underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
Registration Expenses
3
"" shall mean any registration statement of the Company which covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, and all amendments and supplements to any such Registration Statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
"" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency or government body performing the functions currently performed by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof.
Shelf Registration
"" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.2 of this Agreement, including an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement, if applicable, which covers all of the Registrable Securities on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
"" shall mean the trustee with respect to the New Notes under the Indenture.
Trustee
2.             .
Registration Under the 1933 Act
2.1           .  The Company shall, for the benefit of the Holders, at the Company's cost, use its commercially reasonable efforts to (A) prepare and, as soon as practicable but not later than 90 days following the Closing Date, file with the SEC an Exchange Offer Registration Statement on an appropriate form under the 1933 Act with respect to a proposed Exchange Offer and the issuance and delivery to the Holders, in exchange for the Registrable Securities of a like principal amount of Exchange Securities, (B) cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective under the 1933 Act within 225 days of the Closing Date, (C) keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective until the closing of the Exchange Offer and (D) to the extent not prohibited by any applicable laws or interpretation of the staff of the SEC use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer to be consummated not later than 270 days following the Closing Date.  The Exchange Securities will be issued under the Indenture.  Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly commence the Exchange Offer, it being the objective of such Exchange Offer to enable each Holder eligible and electing to exchange Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities (assuming that such Holder (a) is not an affiliate of the Company within the meaning of Rule 405 under the 1933 Act, (b) is not a broker-dealer tendering Registrable Securities acquired directly from the Company for its own account, (c) acquired the Exchange Securities in the ordinary course of such Holder's business and (d) is not engaged in and does not intend to engage in and has no arrangements or understandings with any
Exchange Offer
4
Person to participate in the Exchange Offer for the purpose of distributing the Exchange Securities, and such Holder must so represent in order to participate in the Exchange Offer) to transfer such Exchange Securities from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the 1933 Act and under state securities or blue sky laws.
In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
(a)           mail to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
(b)           keep the Exchange Offer open for acceptance for a period of not less than 20 business days after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders (or longer at the option of the Company or if required by applicable law) (such period referred to herein as the "Exchange Period");
(c)           utilize the services of the Depositary for the Exchange Offer;
(d)           permit Holders to withdraw tendered Registrable Securities at any time prior to 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time), on the last business day of the Exchange Period, by sending to the institution specified in the letter of transmittal or other applicable notice, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Registrable Securities delivered for exchange, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing such Holder's election to have such Registrable Securities exchanged; and
(e)           otherwise comply in all respects with all applicable laws relating to the Exchange Offer.
The Exchange Securities shall be issued under (i) the Indenture or (ii) an indenture identical in all material respects to the Indenture and which, in either case, has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "TIA"), or is exempt from such qualification and shall provide that the Exchange Securities shall not be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in the Indenture.  The Indenture or such indenture shall provide that the Exchange Securities and the New Notes shall vote and consent together on all matters as one class and that none of the Exchange Securities or the New Notes will have the right to vote or consent as a separate class on any matter.
As soon as reasonably practicable after the expiration date of the Exchange Offer, as the case may be, the Company shall:
(i)            accept for exchange all Registrable Securities duly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and the letter of transmittal which shall be an exhibit thereto;
(ii)           deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Securities so accepted for exchange; and
5
(iii)          cause the Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver Exchange Securities to each Holder of Registrable Securities so accepted for exchange in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Registrable Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
Interest on each Exchange Security will accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Registrable Security surrendered in exchange therefor or, if no interest has been paid on the Registrable Security, from the date of original issuance.  The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than (i) that the Exchange Offer, or the making of any exchange by a Holder, does not violate applicable law or any applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC, (ii) the due tendering of Registrable Securities in accordance with the Exchange Offer, (iii) that each Holder of Registrable Securities exchanged in the Exchange Offer shall have represented that all Exchange Securities to be received by it shall be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, that it is not a broker-dealer tendering Registrable Securities acquired directly from the Company for its own account and that at the time of the consummation of the Exchange Offer it shall have no arrangement or understanding with any person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the 1933 Act) of the Exchange Securities and shall have made such other representations as may be reasonably necessary under applicable SEC rules, regulations or interpretations to render the use of Form S-4 or other appropriate form under the 1933 Act available and (iv) that no action or proceeding shall have been instituted or threatened in any court or by or before any governmental agency with respect to the Exchange Offer which, in the Company's judgment, would reasonably be expected to impair the ability of the Company to proceed with the Exchange Offer.  The Company shall inform the Dealer Managers of the names and addresses of the Holders to whom the Exchange Offer is made, and the Dealer Managers shall have the right to contact such Holders and otherwise facilitate the tender of Registrable Securities in the Exchange Offer.
 day following the consummation of the Exchange Offer that it is not permitted to participate in the Exchange Offer or does not receive fully tradeable Exchange Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer, then in case of each of clauses (i) through (iii) the Company shall, at its reasonable cost:
2.2           .  (i) If, because of any changes in law, SEC rules or regulations or applicable interpretations thereof by the staff of the SEC, the Company is not permitted to effect the Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2.1 hereof, (ii) if for any other reason the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective within 225 days following the original issue of the Registrable Securities or the Exchange Offer is not consummated within 270 days after the original issue of the Registrable Securities, or (iii) if a Holder notifies the Company in writing prior to the 20
Shelf Registration
th
(a)           As promptly as practicable, but no later than 60 days after being required to do so under Section 2.2 hereof, file with the SEC, and thereafter shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be declared effective as promptly as practicable but no later than 210 days after being required to do so under Section 2.2 hereof, a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by the Majority Holders participating in the Shelf Registration and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement; , that nothing in this Section 2.2(a) shall require the filing of a Shelf Registration Statement prior to the
provided, however
6
deadline for filing the Exchange Offer Registration Statement set forth in Section 2.1; , , that no Holder shall be entitled to be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or to use the prospectus forming a part thereof for resales of Registrable Securities unless such Holder has signed and returned to the Company a notice and questionnaire as distributed by the Company consenting to such Holder's inclusion in the prospectus as a selling securityholder and providing such further information to the Company as the Company may reasonably request.
provided
further
(b)           Use commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period of two years from the date the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC, or for such shorter period that will terminate when all Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or cease to be outstanding or otherwise to be Registrable Securities (the "Effectiveness Period").
(c)           Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that (i) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto, at the time each such registration statement or amendment thereto becomes effective, and any Prospectus, as of the date thereof, forming part thereof and any supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (iii) any Prospectus forming part of any Shelf Registration Statement, and any supplement to such Prospectus (as amended or supplemented from time to time) (each as of the date thereof), does not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; , that clauses (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph shall not apply to any information provided by the Dealer Managers or any Holder.
provided
The Company further agrees, if necessary, to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement, as required by Section 3(b) below, and to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC (other than with respect to any such supplement or amendment resulting solely from the incorporation by reference of any report filed under the 1934 Act).  In the event that the Exchange Offer is consummated within 270 days after the Closing Date, the Company shall have no obligation to file a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2.2(ii).
2.3           .  The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Section 2.1 or 2.2.  Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
Expenses
7
2.4           . An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof or a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC or has otherwise become effective; , , that if, after it has been declared effective or has otherwise become effective, the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or a Shelf Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, such Registration Statement will be deemed not to have become effective during the period of such interference, until the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement may legally resume.
Effectiveness
provided
however
 calendar day following the Closing Date, (b) (i) if required, the Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to the 270 calendar day following the Closing Date or (ii) if required, a Shelf Registration Statement has not become effective on or prior to the 210 calendar day following the date on which the Company became obligated to file such Shelf Registration Statement under Section 2.2 hereof, (c) if required, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is filed and declared effective but shall thereafter cease to be effective (other than after such time as all New Notes have been disposed of hereunder) or is not usable prior to the consummation of the Exchange Offer or (d) if required, the Shelf Registration Statement has been filed and is declared or otherwise becomes effective but ceases to be effective or usable for a period of time that exceeds 120 days in the aggregate in any 12-month period in which it is required to be effective hereunder (each such event referred to in the preceding clauses (a) through (d), a "Registration Default"), the interest rate borne by the New Notes affected thereby shall be increased ("Additional Interest") immediately upon occurrence of a Registration Default by one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum with respect to the first 90-day period while one or more Registration Defaults is continuing and will increase to a maximum of one-half of one percent (0.50%) per annum Additional Interest thereafter while one or more Registration Defaults is continuing until all Registration Defaults have been cured; that Additional Interest shall accrue only for those days that a Registration Default occurs and is continuing, including the date on which any Registration Default shall occur but not including the date on which all Registration Defaults have been cured. Such Additional Interest shall be calculated based on a year consisting of 360 days comprised of twelve 30-day months. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults the accrual of Additional Interest will cease, the interest rate will revert to the original rate and, upon any subsequent Registration Default following any such cure of all Registration Defaults, Additional Interest will begin accruing again at one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum and will increase to a maximum of one-half of one percent (0.50%) per annum as provided above until all Registration Defaults have been cured. Additional Interest shall not be payable with respect to Registration Defaults for any period during which a Shelf Registration Statement is effective and usable by the Holders.
2.5           .  The Company agrees that in the event that (a) if required, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not filed with the SEC on or prior to the 90
Interest
th
th
th
provided
The Company shall notify the Trustee within fivebusiness days after each and every date on which an event occurs in respect of which Additional Interest is required to be paid (an "Event Date"). Additional Interest shall be paid by depositing with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of Registrable Securities, on or before the applicable semiannual interest payment date, immediately available funds in sums sufficient to pay the Additional
8
Interest then due. The Additional Interest due shall be payable on each interest payment date to the record Holder of New Notes affected thereby entitled to receive the interest payment to be paid on such date as set forth in the Indenture. Each obligation to pay Additional Interest shall be deemed to accrue from and including the day following the applicable Event Date.
Notwithstanding anything else contained herein, no Additional Interest shall be payable in relation to the applicable Shelf Registration Statement or the related prospectus if (i) such Additional Interest is payable solely as a result of (x) the filing of a post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement to incorporate annual audited or, if required by the rules and regulations under the Securities Act, quarterly unaudited financial information with respect to the Company where such post-effective amendment is not yet effective and needs to be declared or otherwise become effective to permit Holders to use the related prospectus or (y) the Company notifies the Holder to suspend use (on one or more occasions) of the Shelf Registration Statement and the related prospectus for a period not to exceed an aggregate of 120 days in any calendar year because of the occurrence of any material event or development with respect to the Company that, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, would be detrimental to the Company if so disclosed or would otherwise materially adversely affect a financing, acquisition, disposition, merger or other material transaction; , , that in no event shall the Company be required to disclose the business purpose for such suspension. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to pay Additional Interest with respect to the New Notes to any Holder if the failure arises from the Company's failure to file, or cause to become effective, a Shelf Registration Statement within the time periods specified in this Section 2 by reason of the failure of such Holder to provide such information as (i) the Company may reasonably request, with reasonable prior written notice, for use in the Shelf Registration Statement or any prospectus included therein to the extent the Company reasonably determines that such information is required to be included therein by applicable law, (ii) the NASD or the SEC may request in connection with such Shelf Registration Statement or (iii) is required to comply with the agreements of such Holder as contained herein to the extent compliance thereof is necessary for the Shelf Registration Statement to be declared or otherwise become effective, including, without limitation, a signed notice and questionnaire as distributed by the Company consenting to such Holder's inclusion in the prospectus as a selling securityholder and providing such further information to the Company as the Company may reasonably request.
provided
however
3.             .
Registration Procedures
In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to Registration Statements pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.2 hereof, the Company shall:
(a)           prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement, within the relevant time period specified in Section 2, on the appropriate form under the 1933 Act, which form (i) shall be selected by the Company, (ii) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the eligible selling Holders thereof, (iii) shall, at the time of effectiveness, comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include or incorporate by reference all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein, and (iv) shall comply in all respects with the requirements of
9
Regulation S-T under the 1933 Act, and use commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
(b)           subject to the limitations contained in the third paragraph of Section 2.5, prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary under applicable law to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2; and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provision then in force) under the 1933 Act and comply with the provisions of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to them with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by each Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the selling Holders thereof (including sales by any Participating Broker-Dealer) ; , , that nothing contained herein shall imply that the Company is liable for any action or inaction of any Holder, including any Participating Broker-Dealer;
provided
however
(c)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, (i) notify each Holder of Registrable Securities, at least three business days prior to filing, that a Shelf Registration Statement (except in the case of an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement, in which case at least three business days prior to the inclusion of information regarding selling securityholders in the Prospectus forming a part of such Automatic Shelf Registration Statement) with respect to the Registrable Securities is being filed and advising such Holders that the distribution of Registrable Securities will be made in accordance with the method selected by the Majority Holders participating in the Shelf Registration; (ii) furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto and such other documents as such Holder or underwriter may reasonably request, including financial statements and schedules and, if the Holder so requests, all exhibits in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities; and (iii) hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Securities in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto;
(d)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, use commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement shall reasonably request by the time the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC or otherwise become effective, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each such Holder to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; , , that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(d),
provided
however
10
or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
(e)           notify promptly counsel for the Holders and counsel for the Dealer Managers and, with respect to clauses (i), (iii), (iv) and (v) of this paragraph only, each Holder of Registrable Securities under a Shelf Registration or any Participating Broker-Dealer who has notified the Company that it is utilizing the Exchange Offer Registration Statement as provided in paragraph (f) below and, if requested by such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, confirm such advice in writing promptly (i) when a Registration Statement (other than an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement) has become effective and when any post-effective amendments (other than as a result of incorporated document) and supplements thereto become effective, (ii) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for post-effective amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective that requires any change in the Registration Statement or Prospectus so that, as of such date, the statements therein are not misleading and do not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein to make the statements therein not misleading (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made); that such notice need not identify the event that requires such change, and (v) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities or the Exchange Securities, as the case may be, for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose;
provided, however,
(f)            In the case of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (i) include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a section entitled "Plan of Distribution" which section shall be reasonably acceptable to Merrill Lynch and RBSGC , and which shall contain a summary statement of the positions taken or policies made by the staff of the SEC with respect to the potential "underwriter" status of any broker-dealer that holds Registrable Securities acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and that will be the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of Exchange Securities to be received by such broker-dealer in the Exchange Offer, whether such positions or policies have been publicly disseminated by the staff of the SEC or such positions or policies, in the reasonable judgment of Merrill Lynch on behalf of the Participating Broker-Dealers and its counsel, represent the prevailing views of the staff of the SEC, including a statement that any such broker-dealer who receives Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer may be deemed a statutory underwriter and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities, (ii) furnish to each Participating Broker-Dealer who has delivered to the Company the notice referred to in Section 3(e), without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such Participating
11
Broker-Dealer may reasonably request, (iii) hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement thereto, by any Person subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the SEC, including all Participating Broker-Dealers, in connection with the sale or transfer of the Exchange Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, and (iv) include in the transmittal letter or similar documentation to be executed by an exchange offeree in order to participate in the Exchange Offer (x) the following provision:
"If the exchange offeree is a broker-dealer holding Registrable Securities acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, it will deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of Exchange Securities received in respect of such Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer;" and
(y) a statement to the effect that by a broker-dealer making the acknowledgment described in clause (x) and by delivering a Prospectus in connection with the exchange of Registrable Securities, the broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an underwriter within the meaning of the 1933 Act; and
(g)           (i)  in the case of an Exchange Offer, furnish counsel for the Dealer Managers and (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish counsel for the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any comment letters received from the SEC or any other request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments or supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information;
(h)           make every reasonable effort to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement as soon as possible;
(i)            in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities upon request, and each underwriter, if any, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules (without documents incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits thereto, unless requested);
(j)            in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and enable such Registrable Securities to be in such denominations (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) and registered in such names as the selling Holders or the underwriters, if any, may reasonably request at least three business days prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities;
(k)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event or the discovery of any facts, each as contemplated by Sections 3(e)(iv) hereof, as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, use its commercially reasonable efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the
12
related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities or Participating Broker-Dealers, such Prospectus will not contain at the time of such delivery any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or will remain so qualified.  At such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material fact or to include any omitted material fact, the Company agrees promptly to notify each Holder of such determination and to furnish each Holder such number of copies of the Prospectus as amended or supplemented, as such Holder may reasonably request;
(l)            obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement, and provide the Trustee with printed certificates for the Exchange Securities or the Registrable Securities, as the case may be, in a form eligible for deposit with the Depositary;
(m)          (i)  cause the Indenture to be qualified under the TIA in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, (ii) cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA and (iii) execute, and use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
(n)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into agreements (including if requested, an underwriting agreement in customary form containing customary representations, warranties, terms and conditions; , that the Company shall not be required to enter into such agreement more than once with respect to all the Registrable Securities and may delay entering into such agreement until the consummation of any underwritten public offering which the Company may have then undertaken) and take all other customary and appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities and in such connection whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an underwritten registration;
provided
(o)           in the case of a Shelf Registration or if a Prospectus is required to be delivered by any Participating Broker-Dealer in the case of an Exchange Offer, make available for inspection by a representative of the Holders of the Registrable Securities, any underwriters participating in any disposition pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, any Participating Broker-Dealer and counsel for the Holders, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company reasonably requested by any such persons, and cause the respective officers, directors, employees, and any other agents of the Company to supply all information reasonably requested by any such representative, underwriter, Participating Broker-Dealer or counsel for the
13
Holders in connection with a Registration Statement in each case, as is customary for similar due diligence investigations; that any information that is designated in writing by the Company, in good faith, as confidential at the time of delivery of such information shall be kept confidential by the Holders, any underwriter, any Participating Broker-Dealer and any of their respective representatives, unless such disclosure is made in connection with a court proceeding or required by law, or such information becomes available to the public generally or through a third party without an accompanying obligation of confidentiality, that prior notice shall be provided as practicable to the Company of the potential disclosure of any information in connection with a court proceeding or required by law to permit the Company to obtain a protective order or take such other action to prevent disclosure of such information;
provided, however,
provided, further,
(p)           a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement (other than an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement), any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus (other than with respect to any such amendment or supplement resulting solely from the incorporation by reference of any report filed under the 1934 Act), provide copies of such document to the Dealer Managers, counsel for the Holders, if any, and make such changes in any Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof or amendment or supplement thereto prior to the filing thereof as counsel for the Holders may reasonably request within three business days of being sent a draft thereof and make the representatives of the Company available for discussion of such documents as shall be reasonably requested by the Dealer Managers;
(q)           in the case of a Shelf Registration, use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Registrable Securities to be rated by the appropriate rating agencies, if so requested by the Majority Holders, or if requested by the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any;
(r)            otherwise comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, an earnings statement covering at least 12 months which shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder;
 day following the Company's filing of such request for information with the Trustee for delivery to the Holders such information regarding the Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder or beneficial owner of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may (as a condition to the participation of such Holder and the beneficial owner of Registrable Securities in the Shelf Registration and in addition to any other conditions to such participation set forth in this Agreement) require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company prior to the 30
th
In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Section 3(e)(iv) hereof, such Holder will forthwith
14
discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(k) hereof, and, if so directed by the Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company (at its expense) all copies in such Holder's possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice.
If any of the Registrable Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the underwriter or underwriters and manager or managers that will manage such offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be acceptable to the Company.  No Holder of Registrable Securities may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
4.             .
Indemnification; Contribution
(a)           The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder (including each Dealer Manager, if applicable, and each Participating Broker-Dealer) and each Person, if any, who controls any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
(i)            against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement pursuant to which Registrable Securities were registered under the 1933 Act, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
(ii)           against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 4(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company; and
(iii)          against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by any indemnified party), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation,
15
or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under subparagraph (i) or (ii) above;
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Holder or Underwriter expressly for use in a Registration Statement or any Prospectus.
provided
however
(b)           Each Holder severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, and the other selling Holders, and each of their respective directors and officers, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company or any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 4(a) hereof, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Shelf Registration Statement or any Prospectus included therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information with respect to such Holder furnished to the Company by such Holder expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement or such Prospectus.
(c)           Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action or proceeding commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure so to notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement.  An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of such action; , , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party.  In no event shall the indemnifying party or parties be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 4 (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
provided
however
(d)           If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section
16
4(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.
(e)           If the indemnification provided for in this Section 4 is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefit received by the indemnified party, on the one hand, and the indemnifying party, on the other hand, in connection with the Exchange Offer and the Shelf Registration and the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or by the Holders, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The Company and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 4 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 4. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 4 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 4, in no event shall a Holder be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
For purposes of this Section 4, each Person, if any, who controls a Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Holder, and each director of the Company, and each Person, if any,
17
who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 4 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder, their respective affiliates or any Person controlling any Holder, or by or on behalf of the Company, their respective affiliates or the officers or directors of or any Person controlling the Company, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
5.             .
Miscellaneous
5.1           .  The Company has not entered into and the Company will not after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.  The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not and will not for the term of this Agreement in any way conflict with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
No Inconsistent Agreements
5.2           .  The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or departure.
Amendments and Waivers
5.3           .  All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, registered first-class mail, telex, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.3, which address initially is the address set forth in the Dealer Managers Agreement with respect to the Dealer Managers; and (b) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Dealer Managers Agreement, and thereafter at such other address of which notice is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.3.
Notices
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; two business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next business day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the person giving the same to the Trustee under the Indenture, at the address specified in such Indenture.
5.4           .  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without
Successor and Assigns
18
limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Dealer Managers Agreement or the Indenture.  If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Dealer Managers Agreement, and such person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
provided
5.5           .  The Dealer Managers (even if the Dealer Managers are not Holders of Registrable Securities) shall be third party beneficiaries to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent they deem such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect their rights or the rights of Holders hereunder.  Each Holder of Registrable Securities shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Dealer Managers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries
5.6           .  Until the expiration of two years after the original issuance of the New Notes, the Company will not, and will cause its "affiliates" (as such term is defined in Rule 144(a)(1) under the 1933 Act) not to, resell any New Notes which are "restricted securities" (as such term is defined under Rule 144(a)(3) under the 1933 Act) that have been reacquired by any of them and shall immediately upon any purchase of any such New Notes submit such New Notes to the Trustee for cancellation.
Restriction on Resales
5.7           .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
5.8           .  The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
5.9          .  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS THEREOF.
GOVERNING LAW
5.10         .  In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
19
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
 
20


