FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20071211165610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
 
On Dec. 7, 2007, Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota Corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy, filed with the North Dakota Public Service Commission (NDPSC), a request to increase electric rates by $20.5 million, representing an overall increase of 14 percent, primarily related to increased capital investments and rising operating costs required to provide service.  The request is based on a common equity ratio of 51.77 percent, a return on equity of 11.5 percent and a jurisdictional rate base of approximately $242 million.   If the NDPSC suspends the case, interim rates are proposed to become effective on Feb. 5, 2008, representing an average increase in revenues of 11.49 percent.  Final rates are expected to be effective late in the summer of 2008.
 
See additional information in the news release filed as exhibit 99.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
December 11, 2007
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.01
 
 
 
December 7, 2007
 
FARGO - Xcel Energy today submitted an application to the North Dakota Public Service Commission for an increase in its base electricity rates  the first such filing in 15 years  to cover the company's increased costs to provide service.
 
Under the proposal, the monthly electric bill for a residential customer using 750 kilowatt-hours would increase by about $7.60, and the company's annual revenues would increase by about 14 percent, or $20.5 million.
 
Xcel Energy last filed for an increase in its base electricity rates in North Dakota in 1992. "We diligently manage our expenditures and seek cost savings to ensure customers are getting a good value for their energy dollar," said Mark Nisbet, North Dakota principal manager for Xcel Energy.  "However, we're making significant investments in power generation and transmission lines to meet our customers' electricity needs now and in the future."
 
Xcel Energy is in the process of rehabilitating critical but aging power plants to increase their output and reduce their impact on the environment, Nisbet said.  Additionally, the company has invested millions of dollars in transmission facilities to ensure reliable service and increase access to new generation sources  particularly renewables  in the region.
 
"We strive to balance our role as the provider of safe, reliable, reasonably-priced electricity with our desire to be environmentally responsible," said Nisbet.  "For many years we have generated electricity using a diverse mix of energy resources.  The addition of more renewable resources to our energy portfolio and the renovation of existing power plants further diversifies our supply and positions the company to meet our customers' expectations for low-cost, environmentally sound energy."
 
 
By law, Xcel Energy is allowed to implement an interim rate increase from Feb. 5, 2008, until final rates go into effect later next summer.  The company is proposing an 11.49 percent interim increase, about $7.20 for a customers using 750 kilowatt-hours monthly.  If final rates are lower than the interim level, the company will refund the difference to customers.
 
Nisbet said that even with this proposed base rate increase and increases in the costs of fuel used to generate electricity, Xcel Energy's prices have remained a significant value, actually going down when adjusted for inflation.
 
Since 1993, consumer prices have gone up about 2.6 percent per year, while Xcel Energy's average electricity charges have risen only about 1.3 percent annually during the same period.  The increases that have occurred are due to changes in the prices of fuel to operate the company's power plants and increases in the costs of purchased energy.  The company was allowed two increases of less than 2 percent each in 2004 and 2005 for exceeding prescribed performance standards.
 
In January 2008 the company intends to file a plan with the commission to offer new energy conservation programs to its electricity customers in North Dakota.  "Increasing costs of energy are tough on family budgets and businesses. We want to play a greater role in helping customers reduce their electricity bills," said Nisbet.
 
Interested parties will have an opportunity to comment about the rate case during public hearings the commission is expected to schedule early in 2008.
 
Xcel Energy serves over 85,000 electricity customers in Fargo, West Fargo, Grand Forks, Minot and surrounding communities.
 
More information about the filing and proposed rates are available at www.xcelenergy.com.
 
Xcel Energy (NYSE: XEL) is a major U.S. electricity and natural gas company with regulated operations in eight Western and Midwestern states. Xcel Energy provides a comprehensive portfolio of energy-related products and services to 3.3 million electricity customers and 1.8 million natural gas customers through its regulated operating companies. Company headquarters are located in Minneapolis. More information is available at www.xcelenergy.com.
 
 


