FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20070425080021.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Minnesota
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 25, 2007, Xcel Energy released earnings results for the first quarter of 2007.  The release contains material, non-public information.
See additional information in the Earnings Release furnished as exhibit 99.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3

Exhibit 99.01
414 Nicollet Mall
Minneapolis, MN 55401
 
April 25, 2007
MINNEAPOLIS  Xcel Energy Inc. (NYSE: XEL) announced earnings of $120 million, or 28 cents per share on a diluted basis, for the first quarter of 2007 compared with $151 million, or 36 cents per share, for the first quarter of 2006.
As expected, earnings for the first quarter of 2007 were lower than last year, due to several factors including higher nuclear costs associated with the timing of plant outages, lower electric short-term wholesale and trading margins and a higher effective tax rate. In addition, following the recent Texas retail rate case settlement, accruals were recorded for potential settlements that are being pursued in other Southwestern Public Service Co. (SPS) jurisdictions.
"When we established our 2007 financial plan, we anticipated that our first quarter results would be lower than last year. Additionally, earnings were adversely affected by the recognition of regulatory accruals at SPS and lower than expected weather adjusted sales growth. Regardless, we still expect to deliver earnings within our 2007 guidance range of $1.35 to $1.45 per share," said Richard C. Kelly, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
Xcel Energy's total earnings for the first quarter of 2007 included the following:
                 
Regulated utility earnings from continuing operations were $139 million, or 32 cents per share, compared with $162 million, or 38 cents per share, in 2006; and
                 
Holding company and other costs from continuing operations were $18 million, or 4 cents per share, compared with costs of $12 million, or 2 cents per share in 2006.
At 9 a.m. CDT today, Xcel Energy will host a conference call to review first quarter financial results. To participate in the conference call, please dial in five to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start and follow the operator's instructions.
 
1
The conference call also will be simultaneously broadcast and archived on Xcel Energy's Web site at www.xcelenergy.com. To access the presentation, click on Investor Information. If you are unable to participate in the live event, the call will be available for replay from 11 a.m. CDT on April 25 through 11:59 p.m. CDT on April 27.
Replay Numbers
 
Except for the historical statements contained in this report, the matters discussed in the following discussion and analysis are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such forward-looking statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "objective," "outlook," "plan," "project," "possible," "potential," "should" and similar expressions. Actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including the availability of credit and its impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors, including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; actions of accounting regulatory bodies; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Risk Factors in Item 1A and Exhibit 99.01 of Xcel Energy's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006.
 
2
 
3
Due to the seasonality of Xcel Energy's operating results, quarterly financial results are not an appropriate base from which to project annual results.
Note 1. Earnings per Share Summary
The following table summarizes the diluted earnings per share contributions of Xcel Energy's businesses.
 
The increase in holding company and other costs is primarily attributable to changes in interim period tax adjustments.
The following table summarizes significant components contributing to the changes in the first quarter of 2007 diluted earnings per share compared with the same period in 2006, which are discussed in more detail later in the release.
 
4
 
Note 2. Regulated Utility Segment Results  Continuing Operations
The following summarizes the estimated impact of temperature variations on utility results included in continuing operations, compared with sales under normal weather conditions.
Estimated Impact of Temperature Changes on Regulated Earnings
 
The following table summarizes Xcel Energy's regulated utility growth from continuing operations for actual and weather-normalized energy sales for the three-month period ended March 31, 2007, compared with the same period in 2006.
Sales Growth 
 
The following table details the revenues and margin for base electric utility, short-term wholesale and commodity trading activities that are included in continuing operations:
Base Electric Utility, Short-term Wholesale and Commodity Trading Margins 
 
Note  The short-term wholesale and commodity trading results in the above table reflect the estimated impacts of the regulatory sharing of certain realized margins.
5
 
Base electric utility margins, which are primarily derived from retail customer sales, remained the same for the first quarter of 2007, compared with the first quarter of 2006. For more information see the following table:
Base Electric Utility Margin
 
Base retail electric utility margins were flat compared with the prior year. Base electric utility revenues increased primarily due to a base rate increase in Colorado, effective Jan. 1, 2007, as well as favorable weather and moderate sales growth. This increase was offset by higher regulatory accruals related to potential settlements that are currently being pursued in certain SPS jurisdictions. In addition, the transmission fee classification changed from other operating and maintenance expenses-utility in 2006 to electric utility margin in 2007, with no impact on operating income or net income. The change resulted from an analysis conducted in conjunction with the expiration and renegotiation of certain transmission agreements, resulting in better alignment of reporting for such costs consistent with Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (MISO) classification.
Short-term wholesale margins consist of energy-related purchase and sales activity and the use of certain financial instruments associated with the fuel required for and energy produced from Xcel Energy's generation assets and energy and capacity purchased to serve native load. Commodity trading margins are not associated with Xcel Energy's generation assets or the capacity and energy purchased to serve native load.
Short-Term Wholesale Margins
-
Short-term wholesale and commodity trading margins decreased approximately $15 million during the first quarter of 2007. As expected, short-term wholesale margins declined during the first quarter of 2007 due to retail sales growth, which reduced generation available for sale in the wholesale market, reductions in the availability of the coal-fired, King plant due to the MERP project, and the Minnesota rate case settlement agreement to refund to customers the majority of short-term wholesale margins attributable to Minnesota jurisdiction customers starting in the latter part of 2006.
- The following table details the changes in natural gas utility revenues and margin. The cost of natural gas tends to vary with changing sales requirements and the unit cost of natural gas purchases. However, due to purchased natural gas cost recovery mechanisms for sales to retail customers, fluctuations in the cost of natural gas have little effect on natural gas margin.
Natural Gas Utility Margins
6
 
 
The following summarizes the components of the changes in natural gas margin for the three months ended March 31:
Natural Gas Margin
 
Other operating and maintenance expenses for the first quarter of 2007 increased by approximately $26 million, or 6.0 percent, compared with the same period in 2006. For more information see the following table:
Other Operating and Maintenance Expenses  Utility 
 
Depreciation and amortization expense increased by approximately $11 million, or 5.3 percent, for the first quarter of 2007, compared with the first quarter of 2006. The increase was primarily due to planned system expansion.
Depreciation and Amortization 
Income taxes for continuing operations decreased by $5 million for the first quarter of 2007 compared with the same period in 2006. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in pretax income. The effective tax rate for continuing operations was 28.8 percent for the first quarter of 2007, compared with 26.3 percent for the same period in 2006. The lower effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2006 was primarily due to $4 million of tax benefits for the successful resolution of various audit issues. Excluding the tax benefits, the effective rate for 2006 would have been 28.2 percent.
Income taxes 
7
Note 3. Xcel Energy Capital Structure and Financing
Following is the preliminary capital structure of Xcel Energy at March 31, 2007:
 
unsecured debt with a 7 percent coupon and maturing in 2010 was exchanged for $254 million of unsecured debt with a 5.613 percent coupon and a maturity of 2017. The purpose of the exchange was to diversify the debt maturities and reduce refinancing risk.
In March 2007, Xcel Energy completed a debt-for-debt exchange, in which approximately $241 million of
Note 4. Rates and Regulation
In November 2006, NSP-Minnesota filed a request with the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) to increase Minnesota natural gas rates by $18.5 million, which represents an increase of 2.4 percent. The request is based on an 11.0 percent return on common equity, a projected common equity ratio of 51.98 percent and a natural gas rate base of $439 million. Interim rates, subject to refund, were set at a $15.9 million increase and went into effect on Jan. 8, 2007.
NSP-Minnesota Natural Gas Rate Case 
On March 9, 2007, various intervenors filed testimony in the Minnesota natural gas rate case.
The Minnesota Department of Commerce recommended a rate increase of $8.5 million based on a return on equity of 9.71 percent.
                   
The Office of Attorney General recommended a return on equity of 9.26 percent.
                   
revised requested is caused primarily by an updated ROE estimate of 10.75 percent and an update to the sales forecast.
On April 10, 2007, Xcel Energy filed its rebuttal testimony and revised its requested relief to $16.8 million. The
The remainder of the schedule for the Minnesota natural gas rate case is listed below
 
8
On Dec. 1, 2006, PSCo filed with the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) a request to increase natural gas rates by $41.9 million, representing an overall increase of 2.96 percent. The request is based on a requested capital structure of 60.17 percent common equity, a return on common equity of 11.00 percent and a rate base of approximately $1.1 billion.
PSCo Natural Gas Rate Case -
On April 10, 2007, various intervenors filed testimony in the Colorado natural gas rate case.
The Commission Staff recommended an increase of about $30 million based on a 10 percent ROE.
                   
The Office of Consumer Council recommended a rate decrease of approximately $4 million based on a 9 percent return on equity; a consolidated income tax adjustment and a significant reduction to depreciation and amortization expense.
                   
The remainder of the schedule for the Colorado natural gas rate case is listed below:
Hearings are scheduled for June 4 - 8, 2007.
                   
It is anticipated that new rates will become effective in the third quarter 2007.
                   
- On May 31, 2006, SPS filed a Texas retail electric rate case requesting an increase in annual revenues of approximately $48 million, or 6.0 percent. The rate filing was based on a historical test year, an electric rate base of $943 million, a requested return on equity of 11.6 percent and a common equity ratio of 51.1 percent.
SPS Electric Rate Case in Texas
Texas-jurisdictional fuel and purchased power costs for 2004 through 2005. The combined case was transferred to the State Office of Administrative Hearing. As a part of the fuel reconciliation case, fuel and purchased energy costs, which are recovered in Texas through a fixed-fuel and purchased energy recovery factor as a part of SPS' retail electric rates, were reviewed.
In addition, SPS submitted a fuel reconciliation filing, which requested approval of approximately $957 million of
rate case as well as the fuel reconciliation portion of the proceeding. The agreement includes the following terms:
On March 27, 2007, SPS and various intervenors filed a unanimous stipulation agreement related to the Texas retail
The settlement provides for an annual base rate increase of $23 million or approximately 3 percent.
                   
The settlement is a "black box" agreement, with no stipulated return on equity (ROE) or capital structure.
                   
The settlement disallows approximately $27 million of SPS' 2004-2005 fuel expense.
                   
An additional $2.3 million will be deducted from the company's next fuel reconciliation filing to be made in 2008, associated with the 2006-2007 fuel reconciliation period.
                   
All of SPS' existing long-term firm and interruptible capacity wholesale sales will be assigned system average cost for purposes of Texas retail ratemaking, except for sales to El Paso Electric (EPE), which will be determined by the commission separately.
                   
If the commission determines incremental fuel cost assignment related to the EPE contract is appropriate, the settlement provides that the fuel disallowance is limited to an annual amount of $6.3 million per year, from the date of the commission's order through 2008.
                   
The settlement also creates standards for cost assignment that would apply to future wholesale sale transactions, and establishes margin sharing of market based wholesale demand revenues.
                   
If SPS files a general rate case in 2008, the settlement would allow for an interim rate increase associated with a purchased power agreement with Lea Power Partners of approximately $1.5 million per month from the date of commercial operations. Interim rates would be subject to a true up based on the outcome of the rate case proceeding and actual capacity costs incurred.
                   
settled amounts of previously deferred or recovered fuel expense; therefore, no additional expense associated with the fuel reconciliation portions of the settlement was recognized in the quarter. On March 27, 2007, the ALJ approved SPS' request to implement the $23 million base rate increase, effective April 2007, on an interim basis
An estimated settlement allowance and reserve was established in 2006 and prior periods, which approximated the
9
same time as it considers the El Paso Electric wholesale cost assignment, which is likely to occur in the second quarter of 2007.
until the commission acts on the stipulation. It is expected that the commission will consider the settlement at the
Note 5. Legislative Update
Renewable Portfolio Standards Legislation
In February 2007, legislation requiring a 30 percent renewable standard by 2020 for NSP-Minnesota was signed into law in Minnesota.
                   
In March 2007, legislation establishing a 20 percent renewables requirement in 2020 was signed into law in Colorado. The bill gives PSCo the right to build 25 percent of the incremental wind generation and allows PSCo to build up to 50 percent of the incremental wind generation if we can show that the company's additional ownership creates economic development benefits for the state. The bill encourages the CPUC to provide rider recovery, but it doesn't require it.
                   
Enhanced Revenue Recovery Legislation
In March 2007, legislation allowing utilities to recover their transmission construction costs while the project is under construction was signed into law in Colorado.
                   
In March 2007, legislation that will allow the capital and operating costs of mandated and voluntary environmental efforts to be placed into rates in between rate cases was signed into law in South Dakota.
                   
Note 6. Xcel Energy Earnings Guidance
Xcel Energy's 2007 earnings per share from continuing operations guidance and key assumptions are detailed in the following table.
2007 Earnings Guidance 
 
Key Assumptions for 2007
:
Normal weather patterns are experienced during the year;
                   
SPS Texas electric rate case settlement is approved;
                   
No material incremental accruals related to the SPS regulatory proceedings;
                   
Reasonable rate recovery in the Minnesota and Colorado natural gas rate cases;
                   
Weather-adjusted retail electric utility sales grow by approximately 1.4 percent to 2.0 percent;
                   
Weather-adjusted retail firm natural gas sales grow by approximately 1.0 percent to 2.0 percent;
                   
Short-term wholesale and commodity trading margins are within a range of $15 million to $25 million;
                   
Capacity costs at NSP-Minnesota and SPS are projected to increase approximately $35 million. Capacity costs at PSCo are expected to be recovered under the PCCA;
                   
Utility operating and maintenance expenses increase between 2 percent and 3 percent;
                   
Depreciation expense increases approximately $35 million to $45 million;
                   
Interest expense increases approximately $30 million to $35 million;
                   
Allowance for funds used during construction-equity increases approximately $17 million to $23 million;
                   
Xcel Energy continues to recognize COLI tax benefits, which is currently being litigated with the Internal Revenue Service;
                   
The effective tax rate for continuing operations is approximately 28 percent to 31 percent; and
                   
Average common stock and equivalents total approximately 433 million shares.
                   
10
 
11


