FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20081219165215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Minnesota
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
executive vice president and chief financial officer of Xcel Energy.  In addition to his existing responsibilities as vice president and CFO, Ben Fowke now assumes responsibility for Xcel Energy's four operating companies: Southwestern Public Service Co., Public Service Co. of Colorado, Northern States Power Co.-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin.  Xcel Energy issued a press release announcing the matter discussed above which is attached as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
On Dec. 18, 2008, Ben Fowke was named
 
 
On Dec. 18, 2008, Southwestern Public Service Company (SPS), a New Mexico corporation, and a wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy Inc., filed with the New Mexico Public Regulation Commission (NMPRC) a request for a New Mexico retail electric general rate increase.
 
The filing requests an overall increase in annual revenues of approximately $24.6 million, or an increase of 5.1 percent.  The rate filing is based on a twelve month base period ending June 30, 2008 and includes a requested rate of return on equity of 12.0 percent, an electric net rate base of approximately $321 million allocated to the New Mexico retail jurisdiction, and an equity ratio of 50 percent.
 
As part of this rate filing, SPS seeks to implement part of this proposed increase on an interim basis, beginning Jan. 17, 2009 to recover purchased power costs of the new Hobbs Generating Station, which began operating Sept. 16, 2008. This proposed interim rate increase is approximately $7.6 million.  The interim rates would remain in effect until the NMPRC makes its final decision on the case.  A decision on the overall request is expected in late 2009.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
 
December 18, 2008
 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Dick Kelly, Xcel Energy chairman, president and CEO, today named Ben Fowke executive vice president and chief financial officer.
In addition to his existing responsibilities as vice president and CFO, Fowke now assumes responsibility for Xcel Energy's four operating companies: Southwestern Public Service Co., Public Service Co. of Colorado, Northern States Power Co.-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin.
 
"Ben has done an outstanding job in his role as chief financial officer, and he is well positioned to lead the operating companies," said Kelly.
 
Previously, Fowke was vice president and treasurer for Xcel Energy, and he served as vice president and CFO of the company's Energy Markets business unit.  Before the merger that created Xcel Energy in 2000, Fowke was a vice president in the New Century Energies retail business unit.
 
Xcel Energy (NYSE: XEL) is a major U.S. electricity and natural gas company with regulated operations in eight Western and Midwestern states. Xcel Energy provides a comprehensive portfolio of energy-related products and services to 3.3 million electricity customers and 1.8 million natural gas customers through its regulated operating companies. Company headquarters are located in Minneapolis. More information is available at www.xcelenergy.com.
 


