FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20081212144548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Washington, DC  20549
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)  
Dec. 10, 2008
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code   
612-330-5500
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
 
Item 3.03
Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders.
                                            
 
On Dec. 11, 2008, Xcel Energy Inc. (the "Company") entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") to the Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement dated as of Dec. 13, 2000, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as successor rights agent (the "Rights Agreement").
 
The Amendment changes the final expiration date of the Rights Agreement from June 28, 2011 to Dec. 11, 2008.  Accordingly, the Rights expired at the close of business on Dec. 11, 2008, and the Rights Agreement has been terminated and is of no further force and effect.  The Rights will be de-listed from the New York Stock Exchange and de-registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  A copy of the Amendment is attached as Exhibit 4.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
                                         
 
On Dec. 10, 2008, Paul J. Bonavia, the Company's President, Utilities Group, announced his intention to resign his position effective Dec. 19, 2008.   The Company issued a press release announcing the matters discussed above which is attached as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
(b)          
 
(e)           On Dec. 10, 2008, the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") approved an amendment to the Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "SERP") which closes the SERP as of Dec. 10, 2008 to new participants.
 
In addition, the Board approved amendments to the Company's Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Deferred Compensation Plan"), effective as of Jan. 1, 2009, which make design changes to the plan, including the following:
 
Establishing a new base salary threshold for participants' of $150,000;
                 
Modifying the matching contribution formula (from 100 percent match of the first 2 percent contributed and 50 percent of the next 4 percent contributed, to 50 percent of the first 8 percent contributed); and
                 
Modifying the time and form of payments rule in certain circumstances.
                 
 
Item 9.01.
                                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.01
 
This Amendment, dated as of December 11, 2008, is made between Xcel Energy Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "Company"), and The Bank of New York Mellon as successor Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent"), and amends the Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement dated as of December 13, 2000 (the "Rights Agreement") between the Company and the Rights Agent.
 
A.            Pursuant to Section 5.4 of the Rights Agreement, the Company may from time to time supplement or amend the Rights Agreement in accordance with the provisions of that section.
 
B.            The Board of Directors of the Company desires to terminate the Rights Agreement by amending it to accelerate the Expiration Time set forth therein.
 
This Amendment amends the Rights Agreement as follows:
 
1.           
Capitalized terms that are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Rights Agreement.
 
2.             The definition of "Expiration Time" set forth in Section 1.1 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
 
 "Expiration Time" shall mean the Close of Business on December 11, 2008.
 
3.             This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute the same instrument.
 
4.             This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Minnesota and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such state applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such state; provided, however, that all provisions regarding the rights, duties and obligations of the Rights Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State.
 
 
This Amendment has been duly executed by the Company and the Rights Agent as of the date first written above.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
December 11, 2008
 
MINNEAPOLIS  Xcel Energy announced today that Paul Bonavia, president of the company's Utilities Group, will resign effective Dec. 19 to become chairman, president and CEO of UniSource Energy Corp. based in Tucson, Ariz.
 
The Utilities Group comprises the four operating companies of Xcel Energy: Northern States Power Co.-Minnesota, Northern States Power Co.-Wisconsin, Public Service Co. of Colorado and Southwestern Public Service Co. It also includes five major functional areas: Asset Management, Government and Regulatory Affairs, Marketing, Resource Planning and Acquisition, and Transmission.
 
"Paul has provided exceptional service to Xcel Energy and our customers for many years, and we wish him well in his new job," said Richard C. Kelly, chairman, president and CEO of Xcel Energy, who will assume management responsibilities for Utilities Group on an interim basis.
 
Prior to his current role, Bonavia served as president of Xcel Energy's Commercial Enterprises business unit, with responsibility for leading Xcel Energy's core business growth strategy, and he also previously served as president of the company's Energy Markets unit.
 
Xcel Energy (NYSE: XEL) is a major U.S. electricity and natural gas company with regulated operations in eight Western and Midwestern states. Xcel Energy provides a comprehensive portfolio of energy-related products and services to 3.3 million electricity customers and 1.8 million natural gas customers through its regulated operating companies. Company headquarters are located in Minneapolis. More information is available at www.xcelenergy.com.
 


