FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20101217171725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
The Colorado Clean Air-Clean Jobs Act (CACJA) was signed into law in April 2010.  The CACJA required Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo) to file a comprehensive plan with the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) by Aug. 15, 2010 to reduce annual emissions of NO by at least 70 to 80 percent from 2008 levels from the coal-fired generation identified in the plan.  The plan must consider emission controls, plant refueling, or plant retirement of at least 900 MW of coal-fired generating units in Colorado by Dec. 31, 2017.  The legislation further encourages PSCo to submit long-term gas contracts to the CPUC for approval.  The CACJA permits the CPUC to consider interim rate increases after Jan. 1, 2012 while a rat e filing is pending and allows for multi-year rate plans.
X
 
On Dec. 15, 2010, the CPUC issued their order as required by the CACJA.  The CPUC generally approved the following:
The CPUC also addressed cost recovery under the plan.  The CPUC provided for current recovery of construction work in progress on a forward looking basis in each rate case during the plan period and allowed for the creation of a regulatory asset and deferred accounting treatment for accelerated depreciation and removal costs.  PSCo needs to make applications for detailed cost review before commencing each phase of the plan.  The CPUC also encouraged PSCo to hold stakeholder meetings to discuss issues around a multi-year rate plan.
The total cost of the plan results in new construction of approximately $1 billion over the next 7 years.  The rate impact of the proposed plan is expected to increase future bills on average by 2 percent annually over the next ten years.  The approved plan costs less than retrofitting all of these units with emission control equipment.  The estimated cost of the plan for the years 2011 through 2017 is shown in the table below:
 
 
 
Except for the historical statements contained in this 8-K, the matters discussed herein, are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Such forward-looking statements may be identified in this document by the words would, believe, estimate, expect, likely, may, possible, potential, should and similar expressions.  Actual results may vary materially.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditio ns, including the availability of credit and its impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors, including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; actions of accounting regulatory bodies; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy and PSCo in reports filed wit h the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Risk Factors in Item 1A and Exhibit 99.01 of each of Xcel Energys and PSCos Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010 and Sept. 30, 2010.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


