FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20101209104822.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In April 2010, PSCo reached an agreement with Riverside Energy Center LLC and Calpine Development Holdings, Inc. to purchase the Rocky Mountain Energy Center and Blue Spruce Energy Center natural gas generation assets for $739 million.
The Rocky Mountain Energy Center is a 652 MW combined-cycle natural gas-fired power plant that began commercial operations in 2004.  The Blue Spruce Energy Center is a 310 MW simple cycle natural gas-fired power plant that began commercial operations in 2003.  Both power plants provided energy and capacity to PSCo under power purchase agreements, which were set to expire in 2013 and 2014.
On Dec. 6, 2010, PSCo completed the purchase of Rocky Mountain Energy Center and Blue Spruce Energy Center for $739 million plus an additional $3 million for working capital adjustments.  The working capital adjustments are subject to verification within 90 days of closing.
 
 
 
Except for the historical statements contained in this 8-K, the matters discussed herein, are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Such forward-looking statements may be identified in this document by the words would, believe, estimate, expect, likely, may, possible, potential, should and similar expressions.  Actual results may vary materially.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including the availability of credit and its i mpact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors, including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; actions of accounting regulatory bodies; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy and PSCo in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), in cluding Risk Factors in Item 1A and Exhibit 99.01 of each of Xcel Energys and PSCos Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010 and Sept. 30, 2010.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


