FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20100405090258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On April 2, 2010, Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo), a Colorado Corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy Inc., reached an agreement with Riverside Energy Center LLC and Calpine Development Holdings, Inc. to purchase the Rocky Mountain Energy Center and Blue Spruce Energy Center natural gas generation assets for $739 million.  The acquisition is expected to close in December 2010. The acquisition is subject to state and federal regulatory approvals including cost recovery.
 
The acquisition developed out of the 2007 resource plan in which the assets were offered as part of the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) competitive bidding process. The offer was the least cost option for thermal resources to be acquired under the plan.
 
The Rocky Mountain Energy Center is a 621-MW combined cycle natural gas fired power plant that began commercial operations in 2004.  The Blue Spruce Energy Center is a 310-MW simple cycle natural gas-fired power plant that began commercial operations in 2003.  Both power plants currently provide energy and capacity to PSCo under power purchase agreements, which were set to expire in 2013 and 2014.
 
PSCo anticipates issuing long-term debt to fund a portion of the acquisition price. Xcel Energy expects to issue approximately $500 million of long-term debt during 2010 and approximately $400 million of equity in 2010 or 2011.  Proceeds from these offerings will be used to fund an equity investment into PSCo, to pay down short-term debt incurred at Xcel Energy and to fund a $359 million December 2010 Xcel Energy debt maturity.
 
Xcel Energy anticipates that the acquisition will be accretive in 2011, assuming reasonable regulatory recovery and normal access to the capital markets at reasonable terms.
 
See additional information in the News Release furnished as exhibit 99.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Except for the historical statements contained in this 8-K, the matters discussed herein, including the expected impact of acquisitions are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Such forward-looking statements may be identified in this document by the words "would," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "likely," "may," "possible," "potential," "should" and similar expressions.  Actual results may vary materially.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including the availability of credit and its impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors, including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; actions of accounting regulatory bodies; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy and PSCo in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Risk Factors in Item 1A and Exhibit 99.01 of each of Xcel Energy's and PSCo's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
April 5, 2010
 
 
 
DENVER - Xcel Energy and Calpine Corporation today announced that Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo), an Xcel Energy company, will purchase two of Calpine's power plants near Denver. The plants currently provide electricity to the utility under power purchase agreements.
 
The $739 million acquisition stems from an offer by Calpine into a competitive bid process that was part of Xcel Energy's 2007 Colorado Resource Plan, and was the least cost option among many bids for needed generating resources. The agreement is dependent on regulatory agency approval.
 
The plants to be purchased are the 621-megawatt Rocky Mountain Energy Center, located near Hudson, Colo., which began commercial operation in 2004 and produces electricity using efficient combined-cycle technology, and the 310-megawatt simple-cycle Blue Spruce Energy Center, located in Aurora, Colo., which began operation in 2003. The plants can collectively provide enough electricity to meet the needs of approximately 700,000 Colorado households.
 
"This agreement will be good for our customers because these assets, which are already an integral part of our system, will continue to provide reliable and reasonably priced energy for many years," said David Eves, president and CEO of Public Service Company of Colorado, an Xcel Energy company. "Knowing that these plants will be part of our long-term generation mix will also help us to more effectively manage system reliability as we strive to meet the state's newly increased renewable energy standard."
 
Thad Hill, Calpine's chief commercial officer, added, "We have been pleased to provide PSCo with clean, efficient and reliable energy solutions for Colorado ratepayers since 2003.  We are confident that the 931 megawatts of capacity developed and operated by Calpine will continue to serve Colorado's energy needs for the foreseeable future.  We appreciate the hard work and dedication of the energy professionals who operated these facilities during our ownership."
 
Xcel Energy (NYSE: XEL) is a major U.S. electricity and natural gas company that provides a comprehensive portfolio of energy-related products and services to 3.4 million electricity customers and 1.9 million natural gas customers through its regulated operating companies in eight Western and Midwestern states. Company headquarters are located in Minneapolis. More information is available at xcelenergy.com.
 
Founded in 1984, Calpine Corporation (NYSE: CPN) is a major U.S. power company, currently capable of delivering nearly 25,000 megawatts of clean, cost-effective, reliable and fuel-efficient power to customers and communities in 16 states in the United States and Canada. Calpine Corporation is committed to helping meet the needs of an economy that demands more and cleaner sources of electricity. Calpine owns, leases and operates low-carbon, natural gas-fired and renewable geothermal power plants. Using advanced technologies, Calpine generates power in a reliable and environmentally responsible manner for the customers and communities it serves. More information is available at www.calpine.com.
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such forward-looking statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words "will," "can," "anticipate," "expect," "potential" and similar expressions, and include, among others, those concerning expected strategic and operational plans, as well as assumptions, expectation, intentions or beliefs about future events.  Actual results may vary materially and Xcel Energy and PSCo undertake no obligation to update such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those
risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy and PSCo in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Risk Factors in Item 1A and Exhibit 99.01 of each of Xcel Energy's and PSCo's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009.
 
In addition to historical information, this release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Words such as "believe," "intend," "expect," "anticipate," "plan," "may," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Such statements include, among others, those concerning expected financial performance and strategic and operational plans, as well as assumptions, expectations, predictions, intentions or beliefs about future events. You are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that a number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Please see the risks identified in this release or in Calpine's reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, the risk factors identified in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009. These filings are available by visiting the Securities and Exchange Commission's Web site at www.sec.gov or Calpine's Web site at www.calpine.com. Actual results or developments may differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, and Calpine undertakes no obligation to update any such statements.
 


