FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20101020091554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.      Other Events.
In April 2010, PSCo reached an agreement with Riverside Energy Center LLC and Calpine Development Holdings, Inc. to purchase the Rocky Mountain Energy Center and Blue Spruce Energy Center natural gas generation assets for $739 million.   
The Rocky Mountain Energy Center is a 652 megawatt (MW) combined cycle natural gas-fired power plant that began commercial operations in 2004.  The Blue Spruce Energy Center is a 310 MW simple cycle natural gas-fired power plant that began commercial operations in 2003.  Both power plants currently provide energy and capacity to PSCo under power purchase agreements, which were set to expire in 2013 and 2014.
 
The acquisition is subject to federal and state regulatory approvals including approval of the proposed recovery of costs.  In June 2010, the Federal Trade Commission provided notice of the early termination of the waiting period under Hart-Scott-Rodino.  In July 2010, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued an order approving the acquisition.
In September 2010, PSCo reached a partial settlement with the Colorado Public Utility Commission (CPUC) staff, the Colorado Independent Energy Association and the Office of Consumer Counsel, which provided for recovery of the revenue requirement (capital and O&M costs) associated with the transaction through an interim rider mechanism less a $3.9 million annual revenue reduction until PSCo implements new retail base rates.  Additionally, in its next retail rate case, PSCo shall be allowed recovery of the net book value, based on the $739 million purchase price.
On Oct. 18, 2010, the CPUC approved the acquisition and the cost recovery settlement.  The CPUC also required PSCo to file a rate case by April 30, 2012 to move the investment into rate base.  The revenue requirements associated with the asset acquisition will continue to be recovered through the purchase capacity cost adjustment until final rates are implemented.  Fuel costs will continue to flow through the energy cost adjustment and fuel cost adjustment mechanisms. 
The acquisition is expected to close in December 2010.
 
 
 
 
Except for the historical statements contained in this 8-K, the matters discussed herein, are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Such forward-looking statements may be identified in this document by the words would, believe, estimate, expect, likely, may, possible, potential, should and similar expressions.  Actual results may vary materially.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditio ns, including the availability of credit and its impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors, including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; actions of accounting regulatory bodies; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy and PSCo in reports filed wit h the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Risk Factors in Item 1A and Exhibit 99.01 of each of Xcel Energys and PSCos Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


