FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20110228164426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Xcel Energy Inc.
                                                                                                                  
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
On February 23, 2011, the Xcel Energy Inc. (the Company) board of directors elected James J. (Joe) Sheppard to the board of directors, effective on March 1, 2011, for a term expiring at the Companys 2011 annual meeting of shareholders or until his removal or resignation.
Mr. Sheppard previously served as interim senior vice president and chief nuclear officer for Southern California Edison from September through December 2010.  Prior to that, he was an independent consultant, and between 1993 and 2009, he held several senior positions with the South Texas Project nuclear power plant, including chairman, president and CEO of the STP Nuclear Operating Company, which operates the facility for its three owners. The board expects that Mr. Sheppard will be named to the Nuclear, Environmental and Safety Committee.  Mr. Sheppard will receive compensation for his board service consistent with the compensation received by the Companys other non-employee directors, prorated from the commencement of his service on the board.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  February 28, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
Feb. 28, 2011
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS  Xcel Energy today announced that James J. Sheppard has been elected to the companys board of directors, effective March 1.  His term will be in effect until the companys annual shareholders meeting on May 18, when he will stand for re-election.
Sheppard previously served as interim senior vice president and chief nuclear officer for Southern California Edison.  Between 1993 and 2009, he held several senior positions associated with the South Texas Project nuclear power plant, including chairman, president and CEO of  STP Nuclear Operating Co., which operates the facility for its three owners.  He holds a bachelor of science degree in aerospace engineering from the U.S. Naval Academy and a masters degree in business administration from Duke University.
We are very pleased to welcome Mr. Sheppard to the board, said Dick Kelly, chairman and CEO of Xcel Energy. He brings a wealth of knowledge and experience in nuclear energy, which is a critical component of our companys balanced mix of generating sources.
Xcel Energy (NYSE: XEL) is a major U.S. electricity and natural gas company that provides a comprehensive portfolio of energy-related products and services to 3.4 million electricity customers and 1.9 million natural gas customers through its regulated operating companies in eight Western and Midwestern states. Company headquarters are located in Minneapolis. More information is available at .
xcelenergy.com
 
# # #
 


