FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20110209170153.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
On Feb. 8, 2011, Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo) a Colorado Corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy Inc., filed a request with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to change Colorado wholesale electric customer rates to formula based rates with an expected increase of $16.1 million annually for 2011.   PSCo is seeking to make the request effective in April 2011; however, the FERC has the authority to grant a five month suspension from the April date.  The request was based on a 2011 forecast test year, a 10.90 percent return on equity (ROE), a total PSCO wholesale production rate base of $407 million and an equity ratio of 57.10 percent.  The formula rate will be estimated each year for the following year and then will be trued up to actual costs after the conclusion of the calendar year.   The primary drivers of the revenue deficiency are the inclusion of the recently acquired Blue Spruce Energy Center and Rocky Mountain Energy Center generating units and inclusion of the costs of early retirement of certain coal plants under the Clean Air Clean Jobs Act emissions reduction plan, all of which were approved by the Colorado Public Utility Commission in late 2010.
Except for the historical statements contained in this 8-K, the matters discussed herein, including the expected impact of rate cases, are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Such forward-looking statements may be identified in this document by the words would, believe, estimate, expect, likely, may, possible, potential, should and similar expressions.  Actual results may vary materially.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including the availability of credit and its impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors, including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; actions of accounting regulatory bodies; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy and PSCo in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Risk Factors in Item 1A and Exhibit 99.01 of each of Xcel Energys and PSCos Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2010 and Sept. 30, 2010.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


