FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20110401144544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 1, 2011, Northern States Power Company Minnesota (NSP-Minnesota) terminated its agreement with enXco Development Corporation for the development of a 150 MW wind project in southeastern North Dakota.  The wind project, known as the Merricourt Wind Project, was projected to cost approximately $400 million and was expected to reach commercial operation in 2011.  A major factor in NSP-Minnesotas decision to terminate the agreement was the adverse impact this project could have on endangered or threatened species protected by federal law and uncertainty in the cost and timing in mitigating this impact. 
As a result of the termination of the project, Xcel Energy now expects to spend approximately $2 billion on capital projects for 2011.
Xcel Energy is reaffirming its ongoing earnings guidance of $1.65 - $1.75 per share for 2011.
This report made by Xcel Energy Inc. contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The matters discussed herein, including our 2011 full year earnings per share guidance and assumptions, our capital expenditures forecast, are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such forward looking statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, may, objective, outlook, plan, project, possible, potential, should and similar expressions. Actual results may vary materially. Forward-looki ng statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including inflation rates, monetary fluctuations and their impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry, including the risk of a slow down in the U.S. economy or delay in growth recovery; trade, fiscal, taxation and environmental policies in areas where Xcel Energy has a financial interest; customer business conditions; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors, including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign le gislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership; or imposed environmental compliance conditions; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; financial or regulatory accounting policies imposed by regulatory bodies; availability of cost of capital; employee work force factors; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Risk Factors in Item 1A and Exhibit 99.01 of Xcel Energys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
April 1, 2011


