FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20120426070547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 26, 2012, Xcel Energy released earnings results for the first quarter of 2012.
See additional information in the Earnings Release furnished as exhibit 99.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
 
April 26, 2012
MINNEAPOLIS  Xcel Energy Inc. (NYSE: XEL) today reported 2012 first quarter earnings of $184 million, or $0.38 per share compared with 2011 earnings of $204 million, or $0.42 per share.
As expected, first quarter 2012 earnings declined largely due to warmer than normal weather, which reduced electric and natural gas sales.  In addition, earnings were negatively impacted by higher depreciation expense, property taxes and interest expense largely driven by continued investment in our utility business.  These impacts were partially offset by a lower effective tax rate.
During the first quarter, we experienced one of the warmest winters on record which had a significant adverse impact on our financial results. said Ben Fowke, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. In response, weve implemented an extensive cost management program to offset the negative impact of the unfavorable weather as well as lower than expected weather-normalized sales.  As a result, our operating and maintenance expenses were relatively flat for the quarter while our customers continue to benefit from lower fuel prices and high reliability.
On the regulatory front, the Minnesota Commission approved our settlement agreement in our 2011 electric rate case.  In addition, we were successful in reaching a comprehensive and constructive multi-year settlement with the majority of the parties in our Colorado electric rate case, which should allow new rates to go into effect in May.  The settlement establishes a first time precedent of a three-year rate plan in Colorado, providing regulatory certainty and transparency for our customers and shareholders.
We continue to expect 2012 earnings per share to be in the lower half of our $1.75 to $1.85 guidance range. It is important to note that delivering earnings within our guidance range is based on a series of assumptions. One of the key assumptions is constructive outcomes in all regulatory proceedings, including the Colorado Commission approval of our electric rate case settlement as proposed and the Minnesota Commission approval of our request to defer incremental property tax increases in 2012, stated Fowke.
At 10 a.m. CDT today, Xcel Energy will host a conference call to review financial results.  To participate in the call, please dial in 5 to 10 minutes prior to the start and follow the operators instructions.
The conference call also will be simultaneously broadcast and archived on Xcel Energys website at www.xcelenergy.com.  To access the presentation, click on Investor Information.  If you are unable to participate in the live event, the call will be available for replay from 2:00 p.m. CDT on April 26 through 11:59 p.m. CDT on April 27.
 
 
1
 
 
Except for the historical statements contained in this release, the matters discussed herein, including our 2012 full year earnings per share guidance and assumptions, are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Such forward-looking statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, may, objective, outlook, plan, project, possible, potential, should and similar expressions.  Actual results may vary materially.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including inflation rates, monetary fluctuations and their impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, Xcel Energy) to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry, including the risk of a slow down in the U.S. economy or delay in growth recovery; trade, fiscal, taxation and environmental policies in areas where Xcel Energy has a financial interest; customer business conditions; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors, including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership or impose environmental compliance conditions; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; actions by regulatory bodies impacting our nuclear operations, including those affecting costs, operations or the approval of requests pending before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; financial or regulatory accounting policies imposed by regulatory bodies; availability or cost of capital; employee work force factors; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Risk Factors in Item 1A and Exhibit 99.01 of Xcel Energy Inc.s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011.
For more information, contact:
 
2
 
 
 
3
 
 
Due to the seasonality of Xcel Energys operating results, quarterly financial results are not an appropriate base from which to project annual results.
The only common equity securities that are publicly traded are common shares of Xcel Energy Inc.  The earnings and earnings per share (EPS) of each subsidiary discussed below do not represent a direct legal interest in the assets and liabilities allocated to such subsidiary but rather represent a direct interest in our assets and liabilities as a whole.  EPS by subsidiary is a financial measure not recognized under GAAP that is calculated by dividing the net income or loss attributable to the controlling interest of each subsidiary by the weighted average fully diluted Xcel Energy Inc. common shares outstanding for the period.  We use this non-GAAP financial measure to evaluate and provide details of earnings results.  We believe that this measurement is useful to investors to evaluate the actual and projected financial performance and contribution of our subsidiaries.  This non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered as an alternative to our consolidated fully diluted EPS determined in accordance with GAAP as an indicator of operating performance.
Note 1.  Earnings Per Share Summary
The following table summarizes the diluted earnings per share for Xcel Energy:
 
 
PSCo earnings decreased $0.01 per share for the first quarter of 2012.  The decrease is mainly due to lower electric and gas sales due to warmer weather, decreased wholesale revenue due to the expiration of a long-term wholesale power agreement with Black Hills Corp., higher depreciation expense and interest charges, partially offset by higher gas revenues, primarily due to new rates effective in September 2011.
PSCo
NSP-Minnesota earnings decreased $0.03 per share for the first quarter of 2012.  The decrease is primarily the result of warmer weather impacting electric and gas sales, differences between rates effective in the first quarter of 2012 as compared to interim rates in the first quarter of 2011, higher property taxes and higher operating and maintenance (O&M) expenses.  The decreases were partially offset by a lower effective tax rate.
NSP-Minnesota
NSP-Wisconsin
NSP-Wisconsin earnings per share were flat for the first quarter of 2012.  Higher electric and gas rates implemented in January 2012 and lower O&M expenses were offset by lower electric and gas sales due to warmer weather.
SPS earnings per share were flat for the first quarter of 2012.  Higher electric margins in Texas and New Mexico, primarily due to rate increases effective in January 2012, were offset by the negative impact of warmer weather, higher depreciation expense, property taxes and interest charges.
SPS
 
4
 
The following table summarizes significant components contributing to the changes in the 2012 EPS compared with the same period in 2011, which are discussed in more detail later in the release.
Note 2.  Regulated Utility Results  Continuing Operations
Unusually hot summers or cold winters increase electric and natural gas sales while, conversely, mild weather reduces electric and natural gas sales.  The estimated impact of weather on earnings is based on the number of customers, temperature variances and the amount of natural gas or electricity the average customer historically uses per degree of temperature.  Accordingly, deviations in weather from normal levels can affect Xcel Energys financial performance.
Estimated Impact of Temperature Changes on Regulated Earnings 
Degree-day or Temperature-Humidity Index (THI) data is used to estimate amounts of energy required to maintain comfortable indoor temperature levels based on each days average temperature and humidity.  Heating degree-days (HDD) is the measure of the variation in the weather based on the extent to which the average daily temperature falls below 65 Fahrenheit, and cooling degree-days (CDD) is the measure of the variation in the weather based on the extent to which the average daily temperature rises above 65 Fahrenheit.  Each degree of temperature above 65 Fahrenheit is counted as one cooling degree-day, and each degree of temperature below 65 Fahrenheit is counted as one heating degree-day.  In Xcel Energys more humid service territories, a THI is used in place of CDD, which adds a humidity factor to CDD.  HDD, CDD and THI are most likely to impact the usage of Xcel Energys residential and commercial customers.  Industrial customers are less weather sensitive.
Normal weather conditions are defined as either the 20-year or 30-year average of actual historical weather conditions.  The historical period of time used in the calculation of normal weather differs by jurisdiction based on the time period used by the regulator in establishing estimated volumes in the rate setting process.
There was no impact on sales in the first quarter due to THI or CDD.  The percentage increase (decrease) in normal and actual HDD is provided in the following table:
 
5
 
 
 The following table summarizes the estimated impact of temperature variations on earnings per share compared with sales under normal weather conditions:
Weather
 
 The following table summarizes Xcel Energys sales growth (decline) for actual and weather-normalized sales in 2012:
Sales Growth (Decline)
 
 
 
 Electric revenues and fuel and purchased power expenses are largely impacted by the fluctuation in the price of natural gas, coal and uranium used in the generation of electricity, but as a result of the design of fuel recovery mechanisms to recover current expenses, these price fluctuations have little impact on electric margin.  The following table details the electric revenues and margin:
Electric
 
The following table summarizes the components of the changes in electric margin:
 
 
 
6
 
 
 The cost of natural gas tends to vary with changing sales requirements and the cost of natural gas purchases.  However, due to the design of purchased natural gas cost recovery mechanisms to recover current expenses for sales to retail customers, fluctuations in the cost of natural gas have little effect on natural gas margin.  The following table details natural gas revenues and margin:
Natural Gas
The following table summarizes the components of the changes in natural gas margin:
 O&M expenses increased $0.7 million, or 0.1 percent, for the first quarter of 2012, compared with the same period in 2011.  The following table summarizes the changes in O&M expenses:
O&M Expenses
 
Conservation and demand side management (DSM) program expenses decreased $11.6 million, or 15.4 percent for the first quarter of 2012, compared with the same period in 2011.  The lower expense is primarily attributable to lower sales volumes and lower rider rates, as well as a change in the cost allocation formula used to account for electric conservation improvement program expenses at NSP-Minnesota.  Conservation and DSM program expenses are generally recovered in our major jurisdictions concurrently through riders and base rates.
Conservation and DSM Program Expenses 
Depreciation and amortization increased $3.9 million, or 1.8 percent for the first quarter of 2012, compared with the same period in 2011.  This increase is primarily due to a portion of the Monticello extended power uprate going into service in May 2011 at NSP-Minnesota, the Jones Unit 3 going into service in June 2011 at SPS and normal system expansion across Xcel Energys service territories.  The increase was partially offset by a change in depreciation lives for certain assets to reflect the settlement in the Minnesota recent electric rate case, which resulted in a reduction in depreciation expense of approximately $8 million.
Depreciation and Amortization 
Taxes (other than income taxes) increased $9.1 million, or 9.4 percent for the first quarter of 2012, compared with the same period in 2011.  The increase is primarily due to an increase in property taxes in Minnesota.  NSP-Minnesota has requested to defer incremental property taxes in Minnesota, effective as of Jan. 1, 2012. However, until the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) rules on this issue, NSP-Minnesota will continue to expense the incremental property taxes.  Assuming MPUC approval of NSP-Minnesotas request, which is currently expected in the second quarter of 2012, NSP-Minnesota would reflect the deferral retroactive to Jan.1, 2012.  For more information, see Note 4.
Taxes (Other Than Income Taxes) 
 
 
7
 
 
AFUDC decreased $0.6 million, or 3.0 percent for the first quarter of 2012, compared with the same period in 2011.  The decrease is primarily due to lower average construction work in progress balances.
Allowance for Funds Used During Construction, Equity and Debt (AFUDC) 
Interest charges increased $7.5 million, or 5.2 percent for the first quarter of 2012, compared with the same period in 2011.  The increase is due to higher long-term debt levels to fund investments in utility operations, partially offset by lower interest rates.
Interest Charges 
Income tax expense for continuing operations decreased $36.5 million for the first quarter of 2012, compared with the same period in 2011.  The decrease in income tax expense was primarily due to lower pretax earnings and a tax benefit associated with a carryback.  The effective tax rate for continuing operations was 29.1 percent for the first quarter of 2012 compared with 35.5 percent for the same period in 2011.  The lower effective tax rate for 2012 was primarily due to the completion of an analysis in the first quarter on the eligibility of certain expenses that qualified for an extended carryback beyond the typical two-year carryback period.  As a result, Xcel Energy recognized a discrete tax benefit of approximately $15 million.  Without this tax benefit, the effective tax rate for continuing operations for the first quarter of 2012 would have been 34.9 percent.
Income Taxes 
Note 3.  Xcel Energy Capital Structure, Financing and Credit Ratings
 
Following is the capital structure of Xcel Energy:
 
Xcel Energy issues debt and equity securities to refinance retiring maturities, reduce short-term debt, fund construction programs, infuse equity in subsidiaries, fund asset acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes.  Xcel Energy Inc. and its utility subsidiaries anticipate issuing the following:
Financing Plans
Financing plans are subject to change, depending on capital expenditures, internal cash generation, market conditions and other factors.
 
 
8
 
 
As of April 23, 2012, Xcel Energy Inc. and its utility subsidiaries had the following committed credit facilities available to meet its liquidity needs:
Credit Facilities
 
 
Includes outstanding commercial paper and letters of credit.
 (a)
 Access to reasonably priced capital markets is dependent in part on credit and ratings.  The following ratings reflect the views of Moodys Investors Service (Moodys), Standard & Poors Rating Services (Standard & Poors), and Fitch Ratings (Fitch).
Credit Ratings
As of April 25, 2012, the following represents the credit ratings assigned to Xcel Energy Inc. and its utility subsidiaries:
 
The highest credit rating for debt is Aaa/AAA and the lowest investment grade rating is Baa3/BBB-.  The highest ratings for commercial paper is P-1/A-1/F-1 and the lowest rating is  P-3/A-3/F-3.  A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities.  Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the credit rating agency and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
Note 4.  Rates and Regulation
 In November 2010, NSP-Minnesota filed a request with the MPUC to increase electric rates in Minnesota for 2011 by approximately $150 million, or an increase of 5.62 percent, and an additional increase of $48.3 million, or 1.81 percent, in 2012.  The rate filing was based on a 2011 forecast test year, a requested return on equity (ROE) of 11.25 percent, an electric rate base of $5.6 billion and an equity ratio of 52.56 percent.  The MPUC approved an interim rate increase of $123 million, subject to refund, effective Jan. 2, 2011.  In August 2011, NSP-Minnesota submitted supplemental testimony, revising its requested rate increase to approximately $122 million for 2011 and an additional increase of approximately $29 million in 2012. The revisions were due to delays in the Monticello nuclear plant extended power uprate.
NSP-Minnesota  Minnesota Electric Rate Case
 
In November 2011, NSP-Minnesota reached a settlement agreement with various parties, which resolved all financial issues and several rate design issues.  The settlement agreement includes:
 
 
9
 
 
In February 2012, NSP-Minnesota filed to reduce the interim rate request to $72.8 million to align with the settlement agreement.  On March 29, 2012, the MPUC approved the settlement and a written order is pending.  As of March 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011, NSP-Minnesota has recorded a provision for revenue subject to refund of approximately $78 million and $67 million, respectively, to align with the settlement agreement.
As part of the settlement agreement in the Minnesota electric rate case, the settling parties acknowledged that NSP-Minnesota would be filing a petition seeking deferred accounting for 2012 property tax expense in excess of the level approved in the rate case.  The settling parties waived any right to object to the petition, but reserved the right to review and comment on the petition.  In December 2011, NSP-Minnesota filed the petition to request deferral of approximately $28 million of incremental 2012 property taxes that will not be recovered in base rates.  The estimate of 2012 incremental property taxes has been subsequently revised to approximately $24 million.
NSP-Minnesota  Minnesota Property Tax Deferral Request
In April 2012, the Minnesota Department of Commerce (DOC) filed comments on the petition.  The DOC concluded that NSP-Minnesota had not made a reasonable case for deferred accounting and recommended that the MPUC deny NSP-Minnesotas request to defer incremental 2012 property taxes and also opposed the proposed rider mechanism.  The Xcel Large Industrials and the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce filed comments in support of the deferred accounting treatment as preferable to a rider mechanism, with the understanding that all costs will be reviewed in NSP-Minnesotas next rate case.  Until the MPUC rules on the issue, NSP-Minnesota will continue to expense the incremental property taxes.  An MPUC decision is expected in the second quarter of 2012.
 
NSP-Minnesota  North Dakota Electric Rate Case
In December 2010,
NSP-Minnesota
filed a request with the North Dakota Public Service Commission (NDPSC) to increase 2011 electric rates in North Dakota by approximately $19.8 million, or an increase of 12 percent, and a step increase of $4.2 million, or 2.6 percent, in 2012.  The rate filing was based on a 2011 forecast test year and included a requested ROE of 11.25 percent, an electric rate base of approximately $328 million and an equity ratio of 52.56 percent.  The NDPSC approved an interim rate increase of approximately $17.4 million, subject to refund, effective Feb. 18, 2011.
In May 2011, NSP-Minnesota revised its rate request to approximately $18.0 million, or an increase of 11 percent, for 2011 and $2.4 million, or 1.4 percent, for the additional step increase in 2012.
In September 2011, NSP-Minnesota reached a settlement with the NDPSC Advocacy Staff, which provided for a rate increase of $13.7 million in 2011 and an additional step increase of $2.0 million in 2012, based on a 10.4 percent ROE and black box settlement for all other issues.  To address 2012 sales coming in below forecast revenue projections, the settlement includes a true-up to 2012 non-fuel revenues plus the settlement rate increase.  In February 2012, the NDPSC approved the settlement agreement.
In June 2011, NSP-Minnesota filed a request with the South Dakota Public Utility Commission (SDPUC) to increase South Dakota electric rates by $14.6 million annually, effective in 2012.  The proposed increase included $0.7 million in revenues currently recovered through automatic recovery mechanisms.  The request is based on a 2010 historic test year adjusted for known and measurable changes, a requested ROE of 11 percent, a rate base of $323.4 million and an equity ratio of 52.48 percent.  NSP-Minnesota also requested approval of a nuclear cost recovery rider to recover the actual investment cost of the Monticello nuclear plant life cycle management and extended power uprate project that is not reflected in the test year.  On Jan. 2, 2012, interim rates of $12.7 million were implemented.
NSP-Minnesota  South Dakota Electric Rate Case
 
 
 
In April 2012, the SDPUC Staff filed their direct testimony, which recommended an ROE of approximately 9 percent (ranging from 8.5 percent to 9.5 percent) and a lower cost of debt than the request (6.02 percent compared to the original request of 6.13 percent).  The Staff also recommended disallowance of the Nobles wind project costs unless the SDPUC determines there is energy value in which case the Staffs recommendation would be to disallow a portion of the costs.  NSP-Minnesotas rebuttal testimony is due by April 27, 2012 and a final SDPUC decision is expected in the summer of 2012.
 In February 2011, PSCo filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to change Colorado wholesale electric rates to formula based rates with an expected annual increase of $16.1 million for 2011.  The request was based on a 2011 forecast test year, a 10.9 percent ROE, a rate base of $407.4 million and an equity ratio of 57.1 percent.  The formula rate would be estimated each year for the following year and then trued-up to actual costs after the conclusion of the calendar year.  In September 2011, PSCo implemented an interim rate increase of $7.8 million, subject to refund.
PSCo 2011 Wholesale Electric Rate Case
 
 
10
 
 
In April 2012, PSCo filed an unopposed settlement agreement with wholesale customers for an annual rate increase of $7.8 million.  The primary reasons for the decrease from the original request were a reduction to depreciation expense of $5.8 million and a lower ROE (ranging from 10.1 percent to 10.4 percent).  The reduction of depreciation expense is associated with the early retirement of plants related to PSCos compliance with the Colorado Clean Air Clean Jobs Act (CACJA).  The depreciation expense will be deferred and amortized over the original life of the plants.
In November 2011, PSCo filed a request with the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) to increase Colorado retail electric rates by $141.9 million.  The request was based on a 2012 forecast test year, a 10.75 percent ROE, an electric rate base of $5.4 billion and an equity ratio of 56 percent.
PSCo 2011 Electric Rate Case
 
In April 2012, PSCo and various parties filed a comprehensive multi-year settlement agreement, which covers 2012 through 2014, resolving all financial issues between the signing parties.  Key terms of the agreement include the following:
 
 
11
 
 
Note 5.  Xcel Energy Earnings Guidance
Xcel Energys 2012 earnings is expected to be in the lower half of the guidance range of $1.75 to $1.85 per share.  Key assumptions related to earnings are detailed below:
 
12
 
 
 
13


