FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20120622133217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrants telephone number, including area code
(612) 330-5500
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 20, 2012, the Xcel Energy Inc. (the Company) Board of Directors elected Richard T. OBrien to the Board of Directors, effective August 1, 2012, for a term expiring at the Companys 2013 annual meeting of shareholders.  Mr. OBrien will serve on the Companys Nuclear, Environmental and Safety Committee.  Mr. OBrien will receive compensation for his Board service consistent with the compensation received by the Companys other non-employee directors, as disclosed in the Companys Schedule 14A, Definitive Proxy Statement filed on April 2, 2012 (file no. 001-03034), prorated from the commencement of his service on the Board to the date of the 2013 annual shareholders meeting.
 
 
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
 
 
4

Exhibit 99.01
 
 
June 20, 2012
 
MINNEAPOLIS  Xcel Energy Inc. today announced that Richard T. OBrien has been elected to the companys board of directors effective Aug. 1. He will serve on the boards Nuclear, Environmental and Safety Committee.
 
OBrien is president and chief executive officer of Newmont Mining Corp., headquartered near Denver. He has been with Newmont Mining since 2005 and has also served as its chief financial officer. Before joining Newmont, OBrien was executive vice president and chief financial officer of AGL Resources in Atlanta and was in executive positions with Mirant (formerly Southern Energy Inc.) and PacifiCorp. O'Brien received a bachelors degree in economics from the University of Chicago and a doctor of jurisprudence degree from Lewis and Clark College, Northwestern School of Law.
 
We are looking forward to Richards contributions as a member of the board, said Ben Fowke, chairman, president and CEO of Xcel Energy. His diverse background, which includes experience in finance, operations and energy, offers a combination of insight and intelligence that will serve Xcel Energy well.
 
Xcel Energy (NYSE: XEL) is a major U.S. electricity and natural gas company that provides a comprehensive portfolio of energy-related products and services to 3.4 million electricity customers and 1.9 million natural gas customers through its regulated operating companies in eight Western and Midwestern states. Company headquarters are located in Minneapolis. More information is available at xcelenergy.com.
 


