FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20120402182440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
NSP-Minnesota
Minnesota Electric Rate Case
In November 2010, NSP-Minnesota filed a request with the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) to increase electric rates in Minnesota for 2011 by approximately $150 million, or an increase of 5.62 percent and an additional increase of $48.3 million, or 1.81 percent in 2012. The rate filing was based on a 2011 forecast test year, a requested return on equity (ROE) of 11.25 percent, an electric rate base of $5.6 billion and an equity ratio of 52.56 percent. The MPUC approved an interim rate increase of $123 million, subject to refund, effective Jan. 2, 2011. In August 2011, NSP-Minnesota submitted supplemental testimony, revising its requested rate increase to approximately $122 million for 2011 and a 2012 step increase of approximately $29 million.
In November 2011, NSP-Minnesota reached a settlement agreement with various parties, which settled all financial issues and several rate design issues. The settlement agreement includes:
In February 2012, NSP-Minnesota filed to reduce the interim rate request to $72.8 million to align with the settlement agreement.
On March 29, 2012, the MPUC voted to approve the settlement and a written order will be forthcoming.
PSCo Electric Rate Case
In November 2011, PSCo filed a request with the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) to increase Colorado retail electric rates by $141.9 million. The request was based on a 2012 forecast test year, a 10.75 percent ROE, an electric rate base of $5.4 billion and an equity ratio of 56 percent. Final rates were expected to be effective in the summer of 2012.
In November 2011, PSCo filed a petition to implement interim rates, subject to refund, of $100 million to be effective in January 2012. In January 2012, the CPUC denied PSCos request to implement an interim electric rate increase of $100 million on the basis that PSCo had not demonstrated adverse financial impacts. PSCo filed for reconsideration of the CPUCs decision to deny interim rates, and requested that the CPUC authorize interim rates of approximately $42 million, specifically related to the impacts resulting from the expiration of the Black Hills contract. The CPUC denied the request for reconsideration. However, the CPUC approved PSCos request for deferred accounting of the $42 million annual revenue requirement associated with the Black Hills contract.
On March 2, 2012, seven parties filed Answer testimony in the case. The CPUC Staff recommended a $7.3 million rate increase, based on an ROE of 9.09 percent, an equity ratio of 51.62 percent, a historic test year and other adjustments. The Office of Consumer Counsel recommended a $9.4 million rate increase, based on an ROE of 9.25 percent, an equity ratio of 50.5 percent and other adjustments. Other intervenors recommended ROEs ranging from 9.20 to 9.60 percent and proposed other adjustments.
 
 
 
On April 2, 2012, PSCo and the CPUC Staff, Colorado Office of Consumer Counsel, CF&I Steel, L.P. d/b/a Evraz Rocky Mountain Steel, Climax Molybdenum Company, Colorado Energy Consumers, the Kroger Co. on behalf of its King Soopers and City Market Divisions, the Federal Executive Agencies, Energy Outreach Colorado and the American Association of Retired Persons filed a comprehensive multi-year settlement agreement, which covers 2012 through 2014, resolving all financial issues between the signing parties. The CPUC is expected to rule on the settlement in the second quarter of 2012. Key terms of the agreement include the following:
 
 
 
The signing parties have requested that the CPUC take the matter back from the Administrative Law Judge and asked either that a hearing on the settlement occur in April or that the CPUC implement rates, subject to refund, while it considers the settlement.
2012 Annual and Quarterly Earnings Guidance
Xcel Energy expects that its first quarter 2012 earnings results will be will be significantly lower than the earnings of 42 cents per share reported for the first quarter of 2011. However, Xcel Energy continues to expect 2012 earnings per share to be in the lower half of the $1.75 to $1.85 guidance range.
The expected key drivers of the quarterly deviation are detailed below:
Except for the historical statements contained in this 8-K, the matters discussed herein, including the expected impact of rate cases and earnings guidance are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such forward-looking statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, may, objective, outlook, plan, project, possible, potential, should and similar expressions. Actual results may vary materially. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including inflation rates, monetary fluctuations and their impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, Xcel Energy) to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; including the risk of a slow down in the U.S. economy or delay in growth recovery; trade, fiscal, taxation and environmental policies in areas where Xcel Energy, NSP-Minnesota and PSCo have a financial interest; customer business conditions; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership; or imposed environmental compliance conditions; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; financial or regulatory accounting policies imposed by regulatory bodies; availability of cost of capital; employee work force factors; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy, NSP-Minnesota and PSCo in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Risk Factors in Item 1A and Exhibit 99.01 of Xcel Energys, NSP-Minnesotas and PSCos Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


