FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20120621090056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01  
Other Events
South Dakota Electric Rate Case
In June 2011, Northern States Power Company (NSP-Minnesota), a Minnesota corporation, filed a request with the South Dakota Public Utilities Commission (SDPUC) to increase South Dakota electric rates by $14.6 million annually, effective in 2012.  The proposed increase included $0.7 million in revenues currently recovered through automatic recovery mechanisms.  The request was based on a 2010 historic test year adjusted for known and measurable changes, a requested return on equity (ROE) of 11 percent, a rate base of $323.4 million and an equity ratio of 52.48 percent.  On Jan. 2, 2012, interim rates of $12.7 million, subject to refund, were implemented.
In April 2012, the SDPUC Staff filed their direct testimony, which recommended a ROE of approximately 9 percent (ranging from 8.5 percent to 9.5 percent) and the disallowance of the Nobles wind project costs unless the SDPUC determines there is energy value in which case the Staffs recommendation would be to disallow a portion of the costs.
On June 19, 2012, the SDPUC authorized a rate increase based on a ROE of 9.25 percent, a capital structure of 46.95 percent debt and 53.04 percent equity and full cost recovery for the Nobles wind project.  NSP-Minnesota will calculate the resulting revenue requirements, currently estimated at approximately $8 million, and submit a final rate implementation plan for SDPUC approval in July 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
actions by regulatory bodies impacting our nuclear operations, including those affecting costs, operations or the approval of requests pending before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
Except for the historical statements contained in this 8-K, the matters discussed herein, including the expected impact of rate cases, are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Such forward-looking statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, may, objective, outlook, plan, project, possible, potential, should and similar expressions.  Actual results may vary materially.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including inflation rates, monetary fluctuations and their impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, Xcel Energy) to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; including the risk of a slow down in the U.S. economy or delay in growth recovery; trade, fiscal, taxation and environmental policies in areas where Xcel Energy Inc. and NSP-Minnesota have a financial interest; customer business conditions; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership or impose environmental compliance conditions; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims;
financial or regulatory accounting policies imposed by regulatory bodies; availability of cost of capital; employee work force factors; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy Inc. and NSP-Minnesota in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission , including Risk Factors in Item 1A and Exhibit 99.01 of Xcel Energy Inc.s and NSP-Minnesotas Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


