FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20120413164131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
In February 2011, Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo), a Colorado Corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy Inc., filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to change Colorado wholesale electric rates to formula based rates with an expected annual increase of $16.1 million for 2011.  The request was based on a 2011 forecast test year, a 10.9 percent return on equity (ROE), a rate base of $407.4 million and an equity ratio of 57.1 percent.  The formula rate would be estimated each year for the following year and then trued-up to actual costs after the conclusion of the calendar year.  In September 2011, PSCo implemented an interim rate increase of $7.8 million, subject to refund.
On April 11, 2012, PSCo filed an unopposed settlement agreement with wholesale customers for an annual rate increase of $7.8 million.  The primary reason for the decrease from the original request was a reduction to depreciation expense of $5.8 million and a lower ROE (ranging from 10.1 percent to 10.4 percent).  The reduction of depreciation expense is associated with the early retirement of plants associated with PSCos compliance with the Colorado Clean Air Clean Jobs Act (CACJA).  These CACJA costs will be amortized over the original life of the plant.
Except for the historical statements contained in this 8-K, the matters discussed herein, including  the expected impact of rate cases, are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Such forward-looking statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, may, objective, outlook, plan, project, possible, potential, should and similar expressions.  Actual results may vary materially.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including inflation rates, monetary fluctuations and their impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, Xcel Energy) to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; including the risk of a slow down in the U.S. economy or delay in growth recovery; trade, fiscal, taxation and environmental policies in areas where Xcel Energy and PSCo have a financial interest; customer business conditions; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership; or imposed environmental compliance conditions; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; financial or regulatory accounting policies imposed by regulatory bodies; availability of cost of capital; employee work force factors; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy and PSCo in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Risk Factors in Item 1A and Exhibit 99.01 of Xcel Energys and PSCos Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


