FILE:XEL/XEL-8K-20120223171013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 22, 2012, the Xcel Energy Inc. (Xcel Energy) Board of Directors elected Gail Koziara Boudreaux to the Board of Directors, effective on March 1, 2012, for a term expiring at the Xcel Energy 2012 annual meeting of shareholders and until her successor is elected and duly qualified.  The Board appointed Ms. Boudreaux to serve on its Audit Committee and Nuclear, Environmental and Safety Committee.  Ms. Boudreaux will receive compensation for her Board service consistent with the compensation received by Xcel Energys other non-employee directors, as disclosed in the Xcel Energy Schedule 14A, Definitive Proxy Statement filed on April 5, 2011, prorated from the commencement of her service on the Board to the date of the 2012 annual shareholders meeting, provided that the annual retainer for service on the Audit Committee has been increased to $10,000 and Ms. Boudreauxs prorated payment will be based on this revised amount.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
Feb. 22, 2012
 
MINNEAPOLIS  Xcel Energy Inc. today announced that Gail Koziara Boudreaux has been elected to the companys board of directors.
 
Boudreaux is chief executive officer of United Healthcare, a subsidiary of United Health Group in Minneapolis.  Previously, she served as executive vice president of external operations for the Health Care Services Corporation, the parent company of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Illinois, and held senior management positions at Aetna Inc. Boudreaux earned a master's degree in business administration at Columbia Business School and a bachelors degree in psychology at Dartmouth College. In addition, she was named an All-American athlete.
 
"We are very pleased to have Gail join our board, said Ben Fowke, chairman, president and CEO of Xcel Energy. "She brings exceptional strategic enterprise management with deep operating experience, as well as financial expertise. She recognizes the importance of high quality customer service along with a strong market and community orientation, which aligns very well with Xcel Energys values.
Boudreaux will serve on the board from March 1 until the companys annual shareholders meeting in May. She will then stand for election along with all members of the board.
Xcel Energy (NYSE: XEL) is a major U.S. electricity and natural gas company that provides a comprehensive portfolio of energy-related products and services to 3.4 million electricity customers and 1.9 million natural gas customers through its regulated operating companies in eight Western and Midwestern states. Company headquarters are located in Minneapolis. More information is available at xcelenergy.com.
 
 


