ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto: OVERVIEW Lexmark International, Inc. ("International," and together with its subsidiaries, the "company" or "Lexmark") is a leading developer, manufacturer and supplier of printing solutions including laser and inkjet printers, multifunction products, associated supplies and services for offices and homes. The company also sells dot matrix printers for printing single and multi part forms for business users and develops, manufactures and markets a broad line of other office imaging products. In the past five years, the worldwide printer industry has seen growth in laser and inkjet printers as a result of the increasing penetration of personal computers and local area networks into home and office markets. During this period, the companys own product mix has evolved, with its laser and inkjet printers and associated supplies representing an increasing percentage of its sales volume and revenue, particularly as the increasing base of installed Lexmark printers generates additional revenue from recurring sales of supplies for those printers (primarily laser and inkjet cartridges). Lexmark believes that its total revenue will continue to grow due to projected overall market growth for 2001 to 2005, despite a flat to slightly declining market from 2000 to 2001. The company experienced increases in market share in both the laser and inkjet printer categories in 2001 despite a difficult economic environment and an increasingly aggressive competitive market with respect to product pricing. In recent years, the companys growth rate in sales of printer units has generally exceeded the growth rate of its printer revenue due to selling price reductions and the introduction of new lower priced products in both the laser and inkjet printer markets. In the laser printer market, unit price reductions are partially offset by the tendency of customers to add optional features including network adapters, additional memory, paper handling and multifunction capabilities. In the inkjet printer market, advances in color inkjet technology have resulted in printers with higher resolution and improved performance while increased competition has led to lower prices. The greater affordability of color inkjet printers as well as the growth in the all in one category have been important factors in the growth of this market. As the installed base of Lexmark laser and inkjet printers continues to grow, management expects the market for supplies will grow as well, as such supplies are routinely required for use throughout the life of the printers. While profit margins on printer hardware have been negatively affected by competitive pricing pressure, the supplies are a relatively high margin, recurring business, which the company expects to contribute to the stability of its earnings over time. The companys dot matrix printers and other office imaging products include many mature products such as supplies for IBM printers, typewriters and other impact supplies that require little ongoing investment. The company expects that the market for these products will continue to decline, and has implemented a strategy to continue to offer high quality products while managing cost to maximize cash flow and profit. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Lexmarks discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related 14 disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, the company evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, restructuring, pensions and other post retirement benefits, and contingencies and litigation. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. The company records estimated reductions to revenue for customer programs and incentive offerings including special pricing agreements, price protection, promotions and other volume based incentives. If market conditions were to decline, the company may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. The company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of the companys customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. The company provides for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. While the company engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers, the companys warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates and material usage and service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ from the companys estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. The company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value. Likewise, the company records an adverse purchase commitment liability when anticipated market sales prices are lower than committed costs. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs and adverse purchase commitment liabilities may be required. Management also considers potential impairment of both tangible and intangible assets when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The company estimates the expected return on plan assets, discount rate, involuntary turnover rate, rate of compensation increase and future health care costs, among other things, and relies on actuarial estimates to assess the future potential liability and funding requirements of the companys pension, postretirement and postemployment plans. These estimates, if incorrect, could have a significant impact on the companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The company estimates its tax liability based on current tax laws in the statutory jurisdictions in which it operates. These estimates include judgments about deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes, as well as about the realization of deferred tax assets. If the provisions for current or deferred taxes are not adequate, if the company is unable to realize certain deferred tax assets or if the tax laws change unfavorably, the company could experience potential significant losses in excess of the reserves established. Likewise, if the provisions for current and deferred taxes are in excess of those eventually needed, if the company is able to realize additional deferred tax assets or if tax laws change favorably, the company could experience potential significant gains. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES During the fourth quarter of 2001, Lexmarks management and board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2001 restructuring") that includes a reduction in the companys global 15 workforce of up to 12 percent. This plan provides for a reduction in infrastructure and overhead expenses, the elimination of the companys business class inkjet printer, and the closure of an electronic card manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico. Restructuring and related charges of $58.4 million ($42.9 million, net of tax) were expensed during the fourth quarter of 2001. These charges were comprised of $36.0 million of accrued restructuring costs related to separation and other exit costs, $11.4 million associated with a pension curtailment loss related to the employee separations and $11.0 million related to asset impairment charges. The company also recorded $29.3 million ($21.6 million, net of tax) of associated restructuring related inventory write offs resulting from the companys decision to eliminate its business class inkjet printer, to limit the period over which the company will provide replacement parts for products no longer in production, and to exit the electronic card manufacturing business. The inventory write offs are included in the cost of revenue line on the statements of earnings. The accrued restructuring costs for employee separations of $26.3 million are associated with approximately 1,600 employees worldwide from various business functions and job classes. Employee separation benefits include severance, medical and other benefits. As of December 31, 2001, approximately 200 employees had exited the business under the 2001 restructuring plan. The other exit costs of $9.7 million are primarily related to vendor and lease cancellation charges. The $11.0 million charge for asset impairment was determined in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" and resulted from the companys decision to abandon certain assets consisting primarily of machinery and equipment used in the manufacture of the companys business class inkjet printers and electronic cards. The charge for asset impairments is included in the restructuring and related charges line of the statements of earnings. In total, the company expects the 2001 pre tax charge of $87.7 million to result in cash payments of approximately $36.0 million and non cash charges of approximately $51.7 million. The cash payments are primarily for employee separations and other exit costs. Restructuring activities are expected to be substantially completed during the year 2002. Annual savings from the 2001 restructuring should approximate $55 million, with about $40 million being achieved in 2002. These savings will be used to offset competitive pricing impacts and for new investments. During 2000, Lexmarks management and board of directors approved a plan to restructure its worldwide manufacturing and related support operations (the "2000 restructuring"). The 2000 restructuring plan involved relocating manufacturing, primarily laser printers, to Mexico and China, and reductions in associated support infrastructure. Restructuring and related charges of $41.3 million ($29.7 million, net of tax) were expensed during the fourth quarter of 2000. These charges were comprised of $24.3 million of accrued restructuring costs related to separation and other exit costs, $10.0 million related to asset impairment charges and $7.0 million associated with a pension curtailment loss related to the employee separations. The employee separation costs included severance, medical and other benefits. The other exit costs were related to vendor and lease cancellation charges and demolition and cleanup costs associated with the companys manufacturing relocation. The asset impairment charges resulted from the companys plans to abandon certain assets (primarily buildings) associated with the relocation of manufacturing and related support activities. As of December 31, 2001, substantially all of the employees identified in the 2000 restructuring had exited the business and received separation benefits. 16 The following table presents a rollforward of the liabilities (in millions) incurred in connection with the 2000 and 2001 restructuring. These liabilities are reflected as accrued liabilities in the companys consolidated statements of financial position. RESTRUCTURING EMPLOYEE OTHER EXIT LIABILITIES SEPARATIONS COSTS TOTAL January 1, 2000...................................... $ $ $ Additions............................................ 19.3 5.0 24.3 Payments............................................. (1.1) (1.8) (2.9) December 31, 2000.................................... 18.2 3.2 21.4 Additions............................................ 26.3 9.7 36.0 Payments............................................. (13.7) (7.7) (21.4) Other................................................ (6.0) 4.3 (1.7) December 31, 2001.................................... $ 24.8 $ 9.5 $ 34.3 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Consolidated revenue in 2001 was $4,143 million, an increase of 9% over 2000. Revenue was adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rates due to weakening of European currencies against the U.S. dollar. Revenue growth was 11% year to year on a constant currency basis. Total U.S. revenue increased $212 million or 13% and international revenue, including exports from the U.S., increased $124 million or 6%. Revenue from sales to all OEM customers accounted for less than 10% of consolidated revenue in 2001 with no single OEM customer accounting for more than 5% of total revenue. The company is continually pursuing OEM and alliance relationships, and therefore, to the extent that any single relationship is discontinued, the company would not expect revenue to be significantly impacted. The revenue growth was primarily driven by increased sales of laser and inkjet supplies whose revenue increased 27% over 2000. Laser and inkjet supplies revenue was $1,962 million for 2001, versus $1,548 million a year earlier, and represents 47% of total revenue versus 41% in 2000. Laser and inkjet printer revenue was $1,657 million for 2001, a 2% decline from 2000. Consolidated gross profit was $1,278 million for 2001, an increase of 2% from 2000. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue was 30.8% for 2001, compared to 33.0% for 2000. Excluding the restructuring related inventory write offs of $29 million, consolidated gross profit was $1,307 million and increased 4% for 2001 compared to 2000. Gross profit, excluding restructuring related charges, as a percentage of revenue for 2001 decreased to 31.5% from 33.0% in 2000 principally due to lower laser and inkjet printer margins, partially offset by an increased mix of supplies. Total operating expense was $937 million in 2001 and operating expense as a percentage of revenue was 22.6%. Excluding the restructuring and related charges of approximately $58 million, total operating expense was $878 million and increased 10% for 2001 compared to 2000. Operating expense, excluding restructuring and related charges, as a percentage of revenue increased to 21.2% in 2001 compared to 21.0% in 2000 primarily due to slightly higher research and development expense as a percentage of revenue. Consolidated operating income was $341 million in 2001. Excluding the restructuring and related charges, consolidated operating income was $429 million and decreased 6% from 2000 primarily due to the lower gross profit margin. In 2001, earnings before income taxes were $318 million. Excluding the restructuring and related charges, earnings before income taxes were $406 million, a decrease of 7% from 2000, reflecting lower operating margins. 17 In 2001, the company reached resolution with the Internal Revenue Service on certain adjustments related to the intercompany allocation of profits. As a result of this resolution the company has reversed previously accrued taxes, reducing the income tax provision in the fourth quarter of 2001 by $40 million, which reduced the effective income tax rate to 13.9% for 2001. Net earnings were $274 million in 2001. The restructuring and related charges net of taxes were approximately $65 million. Earnings excluding restructuring and related charges and the $40 million benefit from the resolution of income tax matters were $298 million, down 5% from 2000, primarily due to lower operating margins partially offset by a reduction in the effective income tax rate. Excluding the impact of the $40 million tax benefit, the income tax provision was 26.5% of earnings before taxes in 2001 as compared to 28.0% in 2000. The decrease in the effective income tax rate was primarily due to lower income tax rates on manufacturing activities in certain countries. Basic net earnings per share were $2.11 for 2001 compared to $2.22 in 2000. The restructuring and related charges resulted in a $.50 negative impact on basic net earnings per share for 2001 and the income tax benefit resulted in a $0.31 positive impact. Basic earnings per share, excluding restructuring and related charges and the tax benefit, were $2.30 for 2001 and $2.46 for 2000. Diluted net earnings per share were $2.05 in 2001 before adjusting for the $.48 per share impact related to the 2001 restructuring actions, and the $.30 income tax benefit. Diluted earnings per share after removing the restructuring impacts and the tax benefit were $2.23 in 2001, compared to $2.35 in 2000, a decrease of 5%. This decrease was due to the decline in net earnings. The following table sets forth the percentage of total revenue represented by certain items reflected in the companys statements of earnings, excluding restructuring and other charges: 2001 2000 1999 Revenue..................................................... 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Cost of revenue............................................. 68.5% 67.0% 64.4% Gross profit................................................ 31.5% 33.0% 35.6% Research & development...................................... 5.9% 5.7% 5.3% Selling, general & administrative........................... 15.3% 15.3% 16.5% Operating income............................................ 10.3% 12.0% 13.8% 2000 COMPARED TO 1999 Consolidated revenue in 2000 was $3,807 million, an increase of 10% over 1999. Revenue was adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rates due to weakening of European currencies against the U.S. dollar. Revenue growth was 16% year to year on a constant currency basis. Total U.S. revenue increased $143 million or 9% and international revenue, including exports from the U.S., increased $212 million or 11%. Revenue from sales to all OEM customers accounted for less than 15% of consolidated revenue in 2000 with no single OEM customer accounting for more than 5% of total revenue. The revenue growth was primarily driven by increased sales of laser and inkjet supplies whose revenue increased 35% over 1999. Printer volumes grew at double digit rates and associated printer supplies revenue increased during 2000 as compared to 1999 primarily due to the continued growth of the companys installed printer base. Laser and inkjet supplies revenue was $1,548 million, versus $1,144 million a year earlier, and represented 41% of total revenue versus 33% in 1999. Laser and inkjet printer revenue was $1,689 million for 2000, a 2% increase from 1999. 18 Consolidated gross profit was $1,256 million for 2000, an increase of 2% from 1999. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue for 2000 decreased to 33.0% from 35.6% in 1999 principally due to lower hardware margins, unfavorable foreign currency impact, the cost of airfreight, and a mix shift among products. Total operating expense was $840 million in 2000. Excluding the restructuring and related charges of $41 million, total operating expense was $799 million and increased 6% for 2000 compared to 1999. Operating expense, excluding restructuring and related charges, as a percentage of revenue decreased to 21.0% in 2000 compared to 21.8% in 1999 primarily due to lower selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue. Consolidated operating income was $416 million in 2000. Excluding the restructuring and related charges, consolidated operating income was $457 million and decreased 4% from 1999. Higher revenue and lower selling, general, and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue were offset by lower hardware margins, unfavorable foreign currency impact, the cost of airfreight, and a mix shift among products. In 2000, earnings before income taxes were $397 million. Excluding the restructuring and related charges, earnings before income taxes were $438 million, a decrease of 5% from 1999, reflecting lower operating margins. Net earnings were $285 million in 2000. The restructuring and related charges net of taxes were $30 million. Earnings excluding restructuring and related charges were $315 million, down 1% from 1999, primarily due to lower operating margins partially offset by a reduction in the effective income tax rate. The income tax provision was 28.0% of earnings before taxes in 2000 as compared to 30.6% in 1999. The decrease in the effective income tax rate was primarily due to lower income tax rates on manufacturing activities in certain countries. Basic net earnings per share were $2.22 for 2000 compared to $2.46 in 1999. The restructuring and related charges resulted in a $.24 negative impact on basic net earnings per share. Basic earnings per share, excluding restructuring and related charges, were $2.46 for both 2000 and 1999. Diluted net earnings per share were $2.13 in 2000 before adjusting for the $.22 per share impact related to the restructuring actions. Diluted earnings per share after removing the restructuring impacts were $2.35 in 2000, compared to $2.32 in 1999, an increase of 1%. This increase was due to fewer shares outstanding partially offset by the decline in net earnings. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Lexmarks primary source of liquidity has been cash generated by operations, which totaled $196 million, $476 million and $448 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Cash from operations generally has been sufficient to allow the company to fund its working capital needs and finance its capital expenditures during these periods along with the repurchase of approximately $209 million and $302 million of its Class A common stock during 2000 and 1999, respectively. In the event that cash from operations is not sufficient, the company has other potential sources of cash such as its revolving credit facility, accounts receivable financing program and other financing sources such as the public or private debt markets, which are discussed in greater detail below. Cash flows from operating activities in 2001 were $196 million, compared to $476 million in 2000. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to unfavorable changes in working capital accounts, principally related to current liabilities. In 2000, cash provided by operating activities increased 6% over 1999 due to favorable changes in working capital accounts. The company has short term non cancelable purchase commitments with suppliers which arise in the normal course of business and provide the company with continuity of supply and lower product cost. If the company fails to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary 19 oversupply of inventory could result in excess or obsolete components which could adversely affect gross margins. The company has a $300 million unsecured, revolving credit facility with a group of banks. The interest rate on the credit facility ranges from 0.2% to 0.7% above London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), as adjusted under certain limited circumstances, based upon the companys debt rating. In addition, the company pays a facility fee on the $300 million of 0.1% to 0.3% based upon the companys debt rating. The interest and facility fees are payable quarterly. The $300 million credit agreement, as amended, contains customary default provisions, leverage and interest coverage restrictions and certain restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, liens, mergers or consolidations and investments. Any amounts outstanding under the $300 million credit facility are due upon the maturity of the facility on January 27, 2003. As of December 31, 2001 and 2000, there were no amounts outstanding under this credit facility. The company has outstanding $150 million principal amount of 6.75% senior notes due May 15, 2008, which was initially priced at 98.998%, to yield 6.89% to maturity. The senior notes contain typical restrictions on liens, sale leaseback transactions, mergers and sales of assets. There are no sinking fund requirements on the senior notes and they may be redeemed at any time, at a redemption price as described in the related indenture agreement, as supplemented and amended, in whole or in part, at the option of the company. A balance of $149 million (net of unamortized discount of $1 million) was outstanding at December 31, 2001. The company is in compliance with all covenants and other requirements set forth in its debt agreements. The company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of its revolving credit facility and public debt. However, a downgrade in the companys credit rating could adversely affect the companys ability to renew existing, or obtain access to new, credit facilities in the future and could increase the cost of such facilities. In February 2001, the company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to register $200 million of debt securities. The company expects to use the net proceeds from the sale of the securities for capital expenditures, reduction of short term borrowings, working capital, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. The following table summarizes the companys contractual obligations at December 31, 2001: Less than 1 3 4 5 After 5 In millions Total 1 year years years years Long term debt.................................. $150 $ $ $ $150 Short term borrowings........................... 11 11 Operating leases................................ 130 31 41 30 28 Non cancelable purchase commitments............. 339 339 Total contractual obligations................... $630 $381 $41 $30 $178 In October 2001, the company entered into a new agreement to sell its U.S. trade receivables on a limited recourse basis. The new agreement increased the maximum amount of financing available to $225 million. As collections reduce previously sold receivables, the company may replenish these with new receivables. The company bears a risk of bad debt losses on U.S. trade receivables sold, since the company over collateralizes the receivables sold with additional eligible receivables. The company addresses this risk of loss in its allowance for doubtful accounts. Receivables sold may not include amounts over 90 days past due or concentrations over certain limits with any one customer. This facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants as well as specific provisions related to the quality of the accounts receivables sold. The facility also contains customary cash control triggering events which, if triggered, could adversely affect the companys liquidity and or its ability to sell trade 20 receivables. A downgrade in the companys credit rating could reduce the companys ability to sell trade receivables. The facility expires in October 2004, but requires annual renewal of commitments in October 2002 and 2003. At December 31, 2001, U.S. trade receivables of $85 million had been sold and, due to the revolving nature of the agreement, $85 million also remained outstanding. The companys previous agreement to sell its U.S. trade receivables on a limited recourse basis was amended in October 2000, and the maximum amount of U.S. trade receivables to be sold was increased from $150 million to $170 million. At December 31, 2000, U.S. trade receivables of $170 million had been sold and also remained outstanding. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, the company did not have any relationship with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, which other companies have established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Therefore, the company is not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if the company had engaged in such relationships. At the companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders on April 27, 2000, the stockholders approved an increase in the number of authorized shares of its Class A common stock from 450 million to 900 million shares. In February 2002, the company received authorization from the board of directors to repurchase an additional $200 million of its Class A common stock for a total repurchase authority of $1.2 billion. This repurchase authority allows the company, at managements discretion, to selectively repurchase its stock from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon market price and other factors. During 2001, the company did not repurchase shares of its Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2001, the company had repurchased approximately 29 million shares at prices ranging from $10.63 to $105.38 per share for an aggregate cost of approximately $882 million, leaving approximately $118 million of share repurchase authority. As of March 8, 2002, the company has repurchased approximately 30 million shares for an aggregate cost of approximately $959 million, leaving approximately $241 million of share repurchase authority. CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Capital expenditures totaled $214 million, $297 million and $220 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The capital expenditures during the past three years were primarily attributable to capacity expansion, the support of new products and research and development facilities. Looking forward to 2002, the company expects capital expenditures to be approximately $150 million primarily attributable to new product development, infrastructure support and the completion of capacity expansion projects initiated in prior years. The capital expenditures are expected to be funded primarily through cash from operations. EFFECT OF CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT Revenue derived from international operations, including exports from the United States, made up more than half of the companys consolidated revenue, with European revenue accounting for about two thirds of international revenue. Substantially all foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their local currencies. Consequently, period to period comparability of results of operations is affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. Certain of the companys Latin American entities use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. Lexmarks operations in Argentina were adversely impacted by currency devaluation in late 2001. This resulted in translation losses of approximately $2 million in December 2001. The company has continued to experience translation losses as a result of further deterioration in Argentinas currency, which could have an adverse impact in the future. 21 Currency translation has significantly affected international revenue and cost of revenue, and although it did not have a material impact on operating income for the years 1999 and 2001, the 2000 operating income was materially adversely impacted by exchange rate fluctuations. The company attempts to reduce its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations through the use of operational hedges, such as pricing actions and product sourcing decisions. The companys exposure to exchange rate fluctuations generally cannot be minimized solely through the use of operational hedges. Therefore, the company utilizes financial instruments such as forward exchange contracts and currency options to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on actual and anticipated cash flow exposures and certain assets and liabilities which arise from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The company does not purchase currency related financial instruments for purposes other than exchange rate risk management. TAX MATTERS The companys effective income tax rate was approximately 14%, 28% and 31% for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The 2001 effective income tax rate was significantly impacted by the companys resolution with the Internal Revenue Service on certain adjustments related to the intercompany allocation of profits. As a result of this resolution, the company has reversed previously accrued taxes, reducing the tax provision in the fourth quarter of 2001 by $40 million, which reduced the effective income tax rate by 13%. Excluding the impact of this adjustment, the companys effective income tax rate was 27% for 2001. The decrease in the income tax rate was primarily due to the effect of lower tax rates on manufacturing activities in certain countries. The company and its subsidiaries are subject to tax examinations in various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. The company believes that adequate amounts of tax and related interest have been provided for any adjustments that may result from these examinations. As of December 31, 2001, the company had non U.S. tax loss carryforwards of $33 million, including $4 million which are not expected to provide a future benefit because they are attributable to certain non U.S. entities that are also taxable in the U.S. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In May 2000, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") issued EITF 00 14, Accounting for Certain Sales Incentives, which provides that some sales incentives should be treated as reductions in revenue and other sales incentives should be classified as cost of sales. In April 2001, the EITF deferred the effective date for this issue to quarters beginning after December 15, 2001. This statement is not expected to have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The EITF has discussed several issues related to loyalty programs and vendor payments to retailers in connection with the promotion of the vendors products. EITF 00 22, Accounting for "Points" and Certain Other Time based or Volume based Sales Incentive Offers, and Offers for Free Products or Services to be Delivered in the Future, addresses loyalty programs that offer awards consisting of the vendors products or services. In January 2001, a consensus was reached on one of the five issues discussed. The EITF concluded that offers to customers to rebate or refund a specified amount of cash that is redeemable only if the customer meets a specified cumulative level of revenue transactions should be recognized as a reduction of revenue. The effective date for application of this consensus was set for no later than the quarter ending after February 15, 2001. Adoption of this consensus did not have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. EITF 00 25, Accounting for Consideration from a Vendor to a Retailer in Connection with the Purchase or Promotion of the Vendors Products, addresses when consideration paid to a retailer 22 should be classified as a reduction of revenue. In April 2001, a consensus was reached that consideration from a vendor to a purchaser of the vendors products is presumed to be a reduction in the selling prices of the vendors products and, therefore, should be characterized as a reduction of revenue. That presumption can be overcome and the consideration should be characterized as a cost incurred if certain criteria are met. The consensus is effective for annual or interim financial statements beginning after December 15, 2001. This statement is not expected to have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows, although it will result in a reclassification from selling, general and administrative expense to revenue. In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") approved the issuance of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 141, Business Combinations, and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. SFAS No. 142 states that goodwill should not be amortized, but should be tested for impairment annually at the reporting unit level. All other intangible assets should be amortized over their useful lives. Certain provisions of SFAS No. 141 and SFAS No. 142 are effective for companies with fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. These statements are not expected to have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. This Statement supersedes FASB Statement No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of, and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions, for the disposal of a segment of a business. SFAS No. 144 establishes a single accounting model, based on the framework established in SFAS No. 121, for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets. The provisions of SFAS No. 144 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. This statement is not expected to have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows. INFLATION The company is subject to the effects of changing prices and operates in an industry where product prices are very competitive and subject to downward price pressures. As a result, future increases in production costs or raw material prices could have an adverse effect on the companys business. However, the company actively manages its product costs and manufacturing processes in an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of any such increases. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND INFORMATION CONCERNING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this report which are not statements of historical fact are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon the company. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting the company will be those anticipated by management, and there are a number of factors that could adversely affect the companys future operating results or cause the 23 companys actual results to differ materially from the estimates or expectations reflected in such forward looking statements, including without limitation, the factors set forth below: Unfavorable global economic conditions may adversely impact the companys future operating results. Since the second quarter of 2001, the company has experienced weak markets for its products. Continued softness in these markets and uncertainty about the timing and extent of the global economic downturn by both corporate and consumer purchasers of the companys products could result in lower demand for the companys products. Weakness in demand may result in excess inventory for the company and or its reseller channel which may adversely affect its operating results. The companys future operating results may be adversely affected if it is unable to continue to develop, manufacture and market products that meet customers needs. The markets for laser and inkjet printers and associated supplies are increasingly competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new technologies and products offering improved features and functionality. The company and its major competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and or technological resources than the company, have regularly lowered prices on their printers and are expected to continue to do so. In particular, both the inkjet and laser printer markets have experienced and are expected to continue to experience significant price pressure. Price reductions on inkjet or laser printer products or the inability to reduce costs, contain expenses or increase sales as currently expected, as well as price protection measures, could result in lower profitability and jeopardize the companys ability to grow or maintain its market share. The company believes that one of its competitive advantages is its exclusive focus on printing solutions. The entrance of a competitor that is also exclusively focused on printing solutions could offset this advantage and could have a material adverse impact on the companys strategy and financial results. The companys performance depends in part upon its ability to successfully forecast the timing and extent of customer demand and manage worldwide distribution and inventory levels to support the demand of its customers, and to address production and supply constraints, particularly delays in the supply of key components necessary for production, which may result in the company incurring additional costs to meet customer demand. The companys future operating results and its ability to effectively grow or maintain its market share may be adversely affected if it is unable to address these issues on a timely basis. Delays in customer purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product introductions by the company or its competitors and market acceptance of new products and pricing programs, the reaction of competitors to any such new products or programs, the life cycles of the companys products, as well as delays in product development and manufacturing, and variations in the cost of component parts, may cause a buildup in the companys inventories, make the transition from current products to new products difficult and could adversely affect the companys future operating results. The competitive pressure to develop technology and products also could cause significant changes in the level of the companys operating expenses. Terrorist attacks, such as those that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001, and the potential for future terrorist attacks have created many political and economic uncertainties, some of which may affect the companys future operating results. Future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to such attacks, and other acts of war or hostility may affect the companys facilities, employees, suppliers, customers, transportation networks and supply chains, or may affect the company in ways that are not capable of being predicted presently. Revenue derived from international sales make up over half of the companys revenue. Accordingly, the companys future results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, trade protection measures and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Moreover, margins on international sales tend to be lower than those 24 on domestic sales, and the company believes that international operations in new geographic markets will be less profitable than operations in the U.S. and European markets, in part, because of the higher investment levels for marketing, selling and distribution required to enter these markets. The company is beginning to rely more heavily on its international production facilities and international manufacturing partners for the manufacture of its products and key components of its products. Future operating results may be adversely affected by several factors, including, without limitation, if the companys international operations or manufacturing partners are unable to supply products reliably, if there are disruptions in international trade, if there are difficulties in transitioning such manufacturing activities from the company to its international operations or manufacturing partners, or if there arise production and supply constraints which result in additional costs to the company. The companys success depends in part on its ability to obtain patents, copyrights and trademarks, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Current or future claims of intellectual property infringement could prevent the company from obtaining technology of others and could otherwise adversely affect its operating results or business, as could expenses incurred by the company in obtaining intellectual property rights, enforcing its intellectual property rights against others or defending against claims that the companys products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The company markets and sells its products through several sales channels. The companys future results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between or among its various sales channels. The company has advanced a strategy of forming alliances and OEM arrangements with many companies. One such OEM customer is Compaq Computer Corporation ("Compaq"), which represented less than three percent of the companys revenue in 2001, and the consummation of the HP/Compaq merger is likely to result in the loss of Compaq as a customer. Factors unrelated to the companys operating performance, including the loss of significant customers, manufacturing partners or suppliers; the outcome of pending and future litigation or governmental proceedings; and the ability to retain and attract key personnel, could also adversely affect the companys operating results. In addition, the companys stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. Trading activity in the companys common stock, particularly the trading of large blocks and intraday trading in the companys common stock, may affect the companys common stock price. While the company reassesses material trends and uncertainties affecting the companys financial condition and results of operations in connection with the preparation of its quarterly and annual reports, the company does not intend to review or revise, in light of future events, any particular forward looking statement contained in this report. The information referred to above should be considered by investors when reviewing any forward looking statements contained in this report, in any of the companys public filings or press releases or in any oral statements made by the company or any of its officers or other persons acting on its behalf. The important factors that could affect forward looking statements are subject to change, and the company does not intend to update the foregoing list of certain important factors. By means of this cautionary note, the company intends to avail itself of the safe harbor from liability with respect to forward looking statements that is provided by Section 27A and Section 21E referred to above. 25 ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY The market risk inherent in the companys financial instruments and positions represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rates At December 31, 2001, the fair value of the companys senior notes is estimated at $146 million using quoted market prices and yields obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of borrowing arrangements, taking into consideration the underlying terms of the debt. The carrying value of the senior notes as recorded in the statements of financial position exceeded the fair value at December 31, 2001 by approximately $3 million. Market risk is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and amounts to approximately $5 million at December 31, 2001. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates The company employs a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the companys functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the company is exposed include the euro and other European currencies, the Japanese yen and other Asian and South American currencies. Exposures are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts, put options, and call options with maturity dates of less than eighteen months. The potential loss in fair value at December 31, 2001 for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $41 million. This loss would be mitigated by corresponding gains on the underlying exposures. 26 (This page intentionally left blank) 27 
 
