ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto: OVERVIEW Lexmark International, Inc. ("International," and together with its subsidiaries, the "company" or "Lexmark") is a leading developer, manufacturer and supplier of printing solutions including laser and inkjet printers, multifunction products, associated supplies and services for offices and homes. The company also sells dot matrix printers for printing single and multi part forms for business users and develops, manufactures and markets a broad line of other office imaging products. In the past five years, the worldwide printer industry has seen growth in laser and inkjet printers as a result of the increasing penetration of personal computers and local area networks into home and office markets. During this period, the companys own product mix has evolved, with its laser and inkjet printers and associated supplies representing an increasing percentage of its sales volume and revenue, particularly as the increasing base of installed Lexmark printers generates additional revenue from recurring sales of supplies for those printers (primarily laser and inkjet cartridges). Lexmark believes that its total revenue will continue to grow due to projected overall market growth for 2003 to 2006. In recent years, the companys growth rate in sales of printer units has generally exceeded the growth rate of its printer revenue due to sales price reductions and the introduction of new lower priced products in both the laser and inkjet printer markets. In the laser printer market, unit price reductions are partially offset by the tendency of customers to add higher profit margin optional features including network adapters, document management software, additional memory, paper handling and multifunction capabilities. In the inkjet printer market, advances in color inkjet technology have resulted in printers with higher resolution and improved performance while increased competition has led to lower prices. The greater affordability of color inkjet printers, as well as the growth in the all in one category, have been important factors in the growth of this market. As the installed base of Lexmark laser and inkjet printers continues to grow, management expects the market for supplies will grow as well, as such supplies are routinely required for use throughout the life of the printers. While profit margins on printer hardware have been negatively affected by competitive pricing pressure, the supplies are a higher margin, recurring business, which the company expects to contribute to the stability of its earnings over time. The companys dot matrix printers and other office imaging products include many mature products such as supplies for IBM printers, typewriter supplies and other impact technology supplies that require little ongoing investment. The company expects that the market for these products will continue to decline rapidly, and has implemented a strategy to continue to offer high quality products while managing cost to maximize cash flow and profit. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Lexmarks discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the company evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, 16 doubtful accounts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, restructurings, pension and other postretirement benefits, and contingencies and litigation. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition The company records estimated reductions to revenue at the time of sale for customer programs and incentive offerings including special pricing agreements, promotions and other volume based incentives. Estimated reductions in revenue are based upon historical trends and other known factors at the time of sale. In addition, the company provides price protection to reseller customers. The company records reductions to revenue for the estimated impact of price protection when price reductions are announced to resellers. If market conditions were to decline, the company may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts The company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The company determines the estimate of the allowance for doubtful accounts based on a variety of factors including the length of time receivables are past due, the financial health of customers, unusual macroeconomic conditions, and historical experience. If the financial condition of the companys customers were to deteriorate or other circumstances occur that result in an impairment of customers ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Warranty Reserves The company provides for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. The reserve for product warranties is based on the quantity of units sold under warranty, estimated product failure rates, and material usage and service delivery costs. The estimates for product failure rates and material usage and service delivery costs are periodically adjusted based on actual results. To minimize warranty costs, the company engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ from the companys estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability may be required. Inventory Reserves The company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value. The company estimates the difference between the cost of obsolete or unmarketable inventory and its market value based upon product demand requirements, product life cycle, product pricing, and quality issues. Also, the company records an adverse purchase commitment liability when anticipated market sales prices are lower than committed costs. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs and adverse purchase commitment liabilities may be required. 17 Long Lived Assets Management considers the potential impairment of both tangible and intangible assets when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An asset impairment review estimates the fair value of an asset based upon the future cash flows that the asset is expected to generate. Such an impairment review incorporates estimates of forecasted revenue and costs that may be associated with an asset, expected periods that an asset may be utilized, and appropriate discount rates. Pension and Postretirement Benefits The company accounts for its defined benefit pension plans and its non pension postretirement benefit plans using actuarial models required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, and SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, respectively. These models use an attribution approach that generally spreads the expected liability for projected benefits over the service lives of the employees in the plan and require that explicit assumptions be used to estimate future events. Examples of assumptions the company must make include selecting the following: expected long term rate of return on plan assets, a discount rate that reflects the rate at which pension benefits could be settled, and the anticipated rates of future compensation increases. The assumed long term rate of return on plan assets and the market related value of plan assets are used to calculate the expected return on plan assets. The required use of an expected versus actual long term rate of return on plan assets may result in recognized pension income that is greater or less than the actual returns of those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the expected long term returns are designed to approximate the actual long term returns and therefore result in a pattern of income and expense recognition that more closely matches the pattern of the services provided by the employees. For the market related value of plan assets, the company uses a calculated value that recognizes changes in asset fair values in a systematic and rational manner. A five year moving average value is used for equities and high yield bonds due to the volatility of these types of investments and fair value is used for low yield bonds. Differences between actual and expected returns are recognized in the market related value of plan assets over five years. The company uses long term historical actual return information, the mix of investments that comprise plan assets and future estimates of long term investment returns by reference to external sources to develop its expected return on plan assets. The discount rate assumptions used for pension and non pension postretirement benefit plan accounting reflect the rates available on high quality fixed income debt instruments at December 31 each year. The rate of future compensation increases is determined by the company based upon its long term plans for such increases. Changes in actual asset return experience and discount rate assumptions can impact the companys stockholders equity. Actual asset return experience results in an increase or decrease in the asset base and this effect, in conjunction with a decrease in the pension discount rate, may result in a plans assets being less than a plans accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO"). The ABO is the present value of benefits earned to date and is based on past compensation levels. The company is required to show in its statements of financial position a net liability that is at least equal to the ABO less the market value of plan assets. This liability is referred to as an additional minimum liability ("AML"). An AML, which is recorded and updated on December 31 each year, is reflected as a long term pension liability with the offset in other comprehensive earnings (loss) in the equity section of the statements of financial position (on a net of tax basis) and or as an intangible asset to the degree a company has unrecognized prior service costs. 18 Income Taxes The company estimates its tax liability based on current tax laws in the statutory jurisdictions in which it operates. These estimates include judgments about deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes, as well as about the realization of deferred tax assets. If the provisions for current or deferred taxes are not adequate, if the company is unable to realize certain deferred tax assets or if the tax laws change unfavorably, the company could experience potential significant losses in excess of the reserves established. Likewise, if the provisions for current and deferred taxes are in excess of those eventually needed, if the company is able to realize additional deferred tax assets or if tax laws change favorably, the company could experience potential significant gains. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES As of December 31, 2002, the company had substantially completed all restructuring activities and, therefore, reversed approximately $5.9 million ($4.4 million, net of tax) during the fourth quarter of 2002. The reversal was primarily due to lower severance costs (approximately $3.5 million) and lower other exit costs (approximately $2.4 million) associated with the 2001 and 2000 restructuring plans. The severance payments were lower than originally estimated due to higher than expected attrition which resulted in the company being able to achieve headcount reductions at a lower cost. Although the restructuring activities were substantially complete at year end 2002 and the employees have exited the business, approximately $4.7 million of severance payments are projected to continue into the first half of 2003, and are accounted for accordingly in the remaining reserve. The following table presents a rollforward of the liabilities (in millions) incurred in connection with the 2000 and 2001 restructuring plans. These liabilities are reflected as accrued liabilities in the companys consolidated statements of financial position. RESTRUCTURING EMPLOYEE OTHER EXIT LIABILITIES SEPARATIONS COSTS TOTAL January 1, 2000...................................... $ $ $ Additions............................................ 19.3 5.0 24.3 Payments............................................. (1.1) (1.8) (2.9) December 31, 2000.................................... 18.2 3.2 21.4 Additions............................................ 26.3 9.7 36.0 Payments............................................. (13.7) (7.7) (21.4) Other................................................ (6.0) 4.3 (1.7) December 31, 2001.................................... 24.8 9.5 34.3 Additions............................................ Payments............................................. (15.4) (2.9) (18.3) Other................................................ (1.2) (4.2) (5.4) Reversal............................................. (3.5) (2.4) (5.9) December 31, 2002.................................... $ 4.7 $ 0.0 $ 4.7 During the fourth quarter of 2001, Lexmarks management and board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2001 restructuring") that included a reduction in the companys global workforce of up to 12 percent. This plan provided for a reduction in infrastructure and overhead expenses, the elimination of the companys business class inkjet printer, and the closure of an electronic card manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico. Restructuring and related charges of $58.4 million ($42.9 million, net of tax) were expensed during the fourth quarter of 2001. These charges were comprised of $36.0 million of accrued restructuring costs related to separation and other exit costs, $11.4 million associated with a pension curtailment related to the employee 19 separations and $11.0 million related to asset impairment charges. The company also recorded $29.3 million ($21.6 million, net of tax) of associated restructuring related inventory write offs resulting from the companys decision to eliminate its business class inkjet printer, to limit the period over which the company will provide replacement parts for products no longer in production, and to exit the electronic card manufacturing facility. The inventory write offs were included on the cost of revenue line in the statements of earnings. The accrued restructuring costs for employee separations of $26.3 million were associated with approximately 1,600 employees worldwide from various business functions and job classes. Employee separation benefits include severance, medical and other benefits. As of December 31, 2002, approximately 1,225 employees have exited the business under the 2001 restructuring plan. This total includes the employees discussed below who were transferred to another company. In addition to employees exiting the business under the restructuring plan, the companys headcount has further decreased due to higher than expected attrition. The other exit costs of $9.7 million were primarily related to vendor and lease cancellation charges. The $11.0 million charge for asset impairment in 2001 was determined in accordance with SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of, and resulted from the companys decision to abandon certain assets consisting primarily of machinery and equipment used to manufacture business class inkjet printers and electronic cards. The charge for asset impairments was included on the restructuring and related charges line in the statements of earnings. In connection with the companys plans to exit the electronic card manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico, Lexmark sold the Reynosa operation to Manufacturers Services Limited ("MSL") in early July 2002. Approximately 250 Reynosa employees were transferred to MSL as part of the sale transaction and those employees were expected to be retained by MSL. In accordance with the sales agreement, the company prepaid eighteen months of the building lease and agreed to provide support payments to MSL for approximately eighteen months, subject to the terms of the agreement. MSL agreed to assume the building lease payments for the remainder of the lease term. During the third quarter of 2002, the company reversed excess reserves of approximately $5.4 million for lease cancellation charges and employee separation costs, which were not incurred as a result of the sale to MSL. The company recorded a charge for approximately the same amount related to the support agreement with MSL. Included in the table was approximately $30.3 million at December 31, 2001 associated with the 2001 restructuring liability. After the reversal of $2.9 million, which is an element of the total $5.9 million reversal as shown in the restructuring liabilities table, the remaining restructuring liability for the 2001 plan was $4.7 million at December 31, 2002. In October 2000, Lexmarks management and board of directors approved a plan to restructure its worldwide manufacturing and related support operations (the "2000 restructuring"). The 2000 restructuring plan involved relocating manufacturing, primarily laser printers, to Mexico and China, and reductions in associated support infrastructure. Restructuring and related charges of $41.3 million ($29.7 million, net of tax) were expensed during the fourth quarter of 2000. These charges were comprised of $24.3 million of accrued restructuring costs related to separation and other exit costs, $10.0 million related to asset impairment charges and $7.0 million associated with a pension curtailment loss related to the employee separations. The employee separation costs included severance, medical and other benefits associated with approximately 900 employees worldwide, primarily in the manufacturing and related support areas. The other exit costs were related to vendor and lease cancellation charges and demolition and cleanup costs associated with the companys manufacturing relocation. The asset impairment charges resulted from the companys plans to abandon certain assets (primarily buildings) associated with the relocation of manufacturing and related support activities. As of December 31, 2001, substantially all of the employees identified in the 2000 restructuring had 20 exited the business and received separation benefits. Included in the table was approximately $4.0 million at December 31, 2001 associated with the 2000 restructuring liability, principally associated with anticipated demolition and cleanup activities related to assets that were to be abandoned, and medical coverage provided to employees who were bridged to retirement. The remaining restructuring liability of $3.0 million related to 2000 was reversed and is an element of the total $5.9 million reversal as shown in the restructuring liabilities table. HEADCOUNT The 2000 and 2001 restructurings were intended to result in approximately 2,500 employee separations from the company. Employee additions to support other initiatives have partially offset these employee separations resulting in the number of company employees worldwide going from approximately 13,000 at December 31, 2000 to approximately 12,100 at December 31, 2002. BASIS OF PRESENTATION In 2001, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") reached a consensus that consideration from a vendor to a purchaser of the vendors products should be characterized as a reduction in revenue as stated in EITF 00 25, Accounting for Consideration from a Vendor to a Retailer in Connection with the Purchase or Promotion of the Vendors Products, and clarified in EITF 01 9. This EITF consensus was effective for annual or interim financial statements beginning after December 5, 2001, with reclassification required for comparative prior periods. The company adopted this EITF as required in 2002 and the adoption of this statement had no impact on the companys net earnings, financial position or cash flows, but did result in a reclassification of certain prior year reported amounts to conform to the current years presentation. Both revenue and selling, general and administrative expense for the twelve months ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 were reduced by approximately $38.5 million and $39.7 million, respectively, as a result of this reclassification. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Consolidated revenue in 2002 was $4,356 million, an increase of 6% over 2001. Total U.S. revenue increased $196 million or 11% and international revenue, including exports from the U.S., increased $56 million or 3%. Revenue was positively affected by foreign currency exchange rates primarily due to strengthening of European currencies against the U.S. dollar. Revenue growth was 4% year to year on a constant currency basis. Revenue from sales to all OEM customers accounted for less than 10% of consolidated revenue in 2002 with no single OEM customer accounting for more than 5% of total revenue. The revenue growth in 2002 was driven by increased sales of laser and inkjet supplies whose revenue increased 19% over 2001. Laser and inkjet supplies revenue was $2,335 million for 2002, versus $1,958 million a year earlier, and represents 54% of total revenue versus 48% in 2001. Laser and inkjet printer revenue was $1,631 million for 2002, a slight increase from 2001. Consolidated gross profit was $1,371 million for 2002, an increase of 11% from 2001. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue for 2002 increased to 31.5% from 30.2% in 2001, an increase of 1.3 percentage points. The increase was principally due to an increase to supplies in the product mix (2.3 percentage points), higher supplies margins (1.1 percentage points) and the impact of a restructuring related inventory charge of $29 million in 2001 (0.7 percentage points), partially offset by lower printer margins (2.8 percentage points). Total operating expense was $860 million in 2002, a decrease of 4% from 2001. Operating expense in 2002 included a $6 million benefit in the fourth quarter of 2002 from the reversal of 21 previously accrued restructuring charges and operating expense in 2001 included a restructuring charge of approximately $58 million. Operating expense as a percentage of revenue decreased to 19.7% in 2002 compared to 21.9% in 2001. The 2.2 percentage point decrease was primarily due to the restructuring charge in 2001 and the reversal in 2002 as well as the companys continuing focus on expense management and the benefits of the restructuring activities. Consolidated operating income was $511 million in 2002 compared to $341 million in 2001, a 50% increase. Included in the 2002 operating income was the $6 million restructuring reversal benefit noted previously and the 2001 operating income included $88 million of restructuring and related charges. The increase in the consolidated operating income was due to the impact of the restructuring charges, the increased gross profit margin and the decrease in operating expense as a percentage of revenue. Non operating expenses declined $8 million from 2002 to 2001, principally due to reduced borrowings at lower interest rates partially offset by a $5 million write down of a private equity investment during 2002. Net earnings were $367 million in 2002 compared to $274 million in 2001. Included in the 2002 net earnings was a $4 million after tax benefit of the restructuring reversal and the 2001 net earnings included restructuring and related charges of $65 million after tax as well as a $40 million benefit from the resolution of income tax matters. After adjusting for the above noted items, the increase in net earnings was primarily due to improved operating income. After adjusting for the $40 million tax benefit in 2001, the income tax provision was 26.0% of earnings before tax for 2002 as compared to 26.5% in 2001. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to lower income tax rates on manufacturing activities in certain countries. Basic net earnings per share were $2.85 for 2002 compared to $2.11 in 2001. The 2002 basic net earnings per share included a $0.03 benefit from the restructuring reversal and the 2001 basic net earnings per share included a $0.50 negative impact from restructuring and related charges and a $0.31 positive impact from the income tax benefit. Diluted net earnings per share were $2.79 for 2002 compared to $2.05 in 2001. The 2002 diluted net earnings per share included a $0.03 benefit from the restructuring reversal and the 2001 diluted net earnings per share included a $0.48 negative impact from restructuring actions and a $0.30 income tax benefit. After adjusting for the noted items, the increases in net earnings per share were primarily due to the increase in net earnings. The following table sets forth the percentage of total revenue represented by certain items reflected in the companys statements of earnings: 2002 2001 2000 Revenue..................................................... 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Cost of revenue............................................. 68.5% 69.8% 67.7% Gross profit................................................ 31.5% 30.2% 32.3% Research & development...................................... 5.7% 6.0% 5.7% Selling, general & administrative........................... 14.2% 14.5% 14.5% Restructuring related (reversal) charges.................... (0.1)% 1.4% 1.1% Operating income............................................ 11.7% 8.3% 11.0% 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Consolidated revenue in 2001 was $4,104 million, an increase of 9% over 2000. Total U.S. revenue increased $213 million or 13% and international revenue, including exports from the U.S., increased $124 million or 6%. Revenue was adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rates primarily due to weakening of European currencies against the U.S. dollar. 22 Revenue growth was 11% year to year on a constant currency basis. Revenue from sales to all OEM customers accounted for less than 10% of consolidated revenue in 2001 with no single OEM customer accounting for more than 5% of total revenue. The revenue growth was primarily driven by increased sales of laser and inkjet supplies whose revenue increased 27% over 2000. Laser and inkjet supplies revenue was $1,958 million for 2001, versus $1,544 million a year earlier, and represents 48% of total revenue versus 41% in 2000. Laser and inkjet printer revenue was $1,623 million for 2001, a 2% decline from 2000. Consolidated gross profit was $1,239 million for 2001, an increase of 2% from 2000. The 2001 gross profit included $29 million restructuring related inventory write offs. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue was 30.2% for 2001 compared to 32.3% for 2000, a decrease of 2.1 percentage points. The decrease was principally due to lower printer margins (4.6 percentage points) and the impact of the restructuring charge (0.7 percentage points), partially offset by an increased mix of supplies (3.3 percentage points). Total operating expense was $898 million in 2001 and operating expense as a percentage of revenue was 21.9% compared to 21.3% in 2000. Operating expense in 2001 included a restructuring charge of approximately $58 million and operating expense in 2000 included a restructuring charge of approximately $41 million. The 0.6 percentage point increase was due to the restructuring charges and slightly higher research and development expense as a percentage of revenue. Consolidated operating income was $341 million in 2001 compared to $416 in 2000. Included in the 2001 operating income was $88 million of restructuring and related charges and the 2000 operating income included $41 million of restructuring and related charges. The decrease in the consolidated operating income was due to the impacts of the restructuring charges and the lower gross profit margins. In 2001, the company reached resolution with the Internal Revenue Service on certain adjustments related to the intercompany allocation of profits. As a result of this resolution the company reversed previously accrued taxes, reducing the income tax provision in the fourth quarter of 2001 by $40 million, which reduced the effective income tax rate to 13.9% for 2001. Net earnings were $274 million in 2001 compared to $285 million in 2000. Included in the 2001 net earnings was a restructuring and related charge of $65 million after tax as well as a $40 million benefit from the resolution of income tax matters. Included in the 2000 net earnings was a restructuring and related charge of $30 million after tax. After adjusting for the items noted above, the decrease in net earnings was primarily due to lower operating margins partially offset by a reduction in the effective income tax rate. Excluding the impact of the $40 million tax benefit, the income tax provision was 26.5% of earnings before taxes in 2001 as compared to 28.0% in 2000. The decrease in the effective income tax rate was primarily due to lower income tax rates on manufacturing activities in certain countries. Basic net earnings per share were $2.11 for 2001 compared to $2.22 in 2000. The 2001 basic net earnings per share included a $0.50 negative impact from restructuring and related charges and a $0.31 positive impact from the income tax benefit and the 2000 basic net earnings per share included a $0.24 negative impact from restructuring actions. Diluted net earnings per share were $2.05 in 2001 compared to $2.13 in 2000. The 2001 diluted net earnings per share included a $0.48 negative impact from restructuring actions and a $0.30 income tax benefit and the 2000 diluted net earnings per share included a $0.22 negative impact from restructuring actions. After adjusting for the noted items, the decreases in net earnings per share were primarily due to the decline in net earnings. 23 RETIREMENT RELATED BENEFITS The following table provides the total pre tax cost/(income) related to Lexmarks retirement plans for the years 2002, 2001 and 2000. Cost/(income) amounts are included as an addition to/reduction from, respectively, the companys cost and expense amounts in the consolidated statements of earnings. 2002 2001 2000 Total cost of retirement related plans...................... $15.5 $11.6 $ 4.0 Comprised of: Defined benefit plans..................................... $(0.2) $(2.4) $(8.1) Defined contribution plans................................ 11.4 10.0 8.5 Non pension postretirement benefits....................... 4.3 4.0 3.6 The defined benefit plan net pension income for 2000 was primarily due to the conversion to a new formula for determining pension benefits in the U.S. As of December 31, 1999, benefits were frozen under the old formula with no further benefits being accrued under that formula, resulting in an increase in pension income of approximately $6 million for 2000. The company uses long term historical actual return experience, the expected investment mix of the plans assets, and future estimates of long term investment returns to develop its assumed rate of return on pension assets used in the net periodic pension calculation. The assumption is reviewed and set annually at the beginning of each year. At the beginning of 2003, the company reduced its expected long term asset return assumption on the U.S. plan from 10.0% to 8.5%. This change is expected to increase 2003 net pension plan expense by approximately $8 million. The company annually sets its discount rate assumption for retirement related benefits accounting to reflect the rates available on high quality, fixed income debt instruments at the end of each year. Using this process, the company reduced its discount rate assumption in the U.S. from 7.5% as of December 31, 2001 to 6.5% as of December 31, 2002. This change, combined with other consistent changes in actuarial assumptions such as the assumed rate of compensation increase, is not expected to have a material effect on 2003 net pension plan expense. The change in the discount rate from 8.0% as of December 31, 2000 to 7.5% as of December 31, 2001, did not have a significant impact on the companys results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2002. Future effects of retirement related benefits, including the changes noted above, on the operating results of the company depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates and investment performance. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Lexmarks primary source of liquidity has been cash generated by operations, which totaled $816 million, $196 million and $476 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Cash from operations generally has been sufficient to allow the company to fund its working capital needs and finance its capital expenditures during these periods along with the repurchase of approximately $331 million and $209 million of its Class A common stock during 2002 and 2000, respectively. The company did not repurchase shares of its Class A common stock during 2001. Management believes that cash provided by operations will continue to be sufficient to meet operating and capital needs. However, in the event that cash from operations is not sufficient, the company has other potential sources of cash through utilization of its revolving credit facility, accounts receivable financing program or other financing sources, such as the public or private debt markets, which are discussed in greater detail on the following pages. 24 Cash flows from operating activities in 2002 were $816 million, compared to $196 million in 2001. The increase in 2002 was primarily due to favorable cash flow changes in working capital accounts, particularly trade receivables, accrued liabilities and inventories. The favorable cash flow changes in working capital accounts were principally due to the companys continued focus on cash cycle management. As part of this focus, the companys days of sales outstanding has declined to 40 days at December 31, 2002, from 51 days at December 31, 2001. The days of sales outstanding is calculated on a 90 day moving average based on gross accounts receivable and is adjusted for certain accounts receivable items which have no corresponding revenue, such as value added taxes. In 2001, cash provided by operating activities decreased from 2000 due to unfavorable changes in working capital accounts, principally related to current liabilities. Cash used for investing activities in 2002 was $101 million less than in 2001, principally due to lower capital spending for manufacturing expansion projects. Cash used for financing activities during 2002 was $302 million compared to $42 million of cash provided by financing activities during 2001. In 2002, the company purchased $331 million of treasury stock compared to no purchases during 2001. The company experienced some significant changes in other balance sheet accounts in 2002. The increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets was primarily due to prepaid income taxes resulting from estimated tax payments. Other assets increased $105 million during 2002, due to a $50 million funding of the U.S. pension plan and a $58 million increase in a deferred tax asset related to the additional minimum pension liability associated with the U.S. pension plan. Accrued liabilities increased $173 million from 2001 to 2002, principally due to increases in income taxes payable ($43 million), compensation ($42 million) and derivative liabilities ($39 million). Other long term liabilities increased $185 million from 2001 to 2002, primarily due to the additional minimum pension liability. The company has short term non cancelable purchase commitments with suppliers which arise in the normal course of business and provide the company with continuity of supply and lower product cost. If the company fails to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply of inventory could result in excess or obsolete components which could adversely affect gross margins. Effective May 29, 2002, the company entered into a new $500 million unsecured, revolving credit facility with a group of banks, including a $200 million 364 day portion and a $300 million 3 year portion. Upon entering into the new credit agreement, the company terminated the prior $300 million unsecured, revolving credit facility that was due to expire on January 27, 2003. There were no amounts outstanding under the prior facility upon its termination. Under the new credit facility, the company may borrow in dollars, euros and other optional currencies. The interest rate ranges from 0.35% to 1.25% above the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for borrowings denominated in U.S. dollars, the Eurocurrency Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR) for borrowings denominated in euros, or other relevant international interest rate for borrowings denominated in another currency. The interest rate spread is based upon the companys debt ratings. In addition, the company is required to pay a facility fee on the $500 million line of credit of 0.075% to 0.25% based upon the companys debt ratings. The interest and facility fees are payable quarterly. The new credit agreement contains customary default provisions, leverage and interest coverage restrictions and certain restrictions on secured and subsidiary debt, disposition of assets, liens and mergers and acquisitions. The 364 day portion of the new $500 million credit facility has a maturity date of May 28, 2003, with an option to extend an additional 364 days. The company expects to exercise its option to extend the 364 day portion of the credit facility. The 3 year portion of the new credit facility has a maturity date of May 29, 2005. Any amounts outstanding under the new credit facility are due according to the applicable maturity dates noted above. As 25 of December 31, 2002 and 2001, there were no amounts outstanding under the new and prior credit facilities, respectively. The company has outstanding $150 million principal amount of 6.75% senior notes due May 15, 2008, which was initially priced at 98.998%, to yield 6.89% to maturity. The senior notes contain typical restrictions on liens, sale leaseback transactions, mergers and sales of assets. There are no sinking fund requirements on the senior notes and they may be redeemed at any time at the option of the company, at a redemption price as described in the related indenture agreement, as supplemented and amended, in whole or in part. A balance of $149 million (net of unamortized discount of $1 million) was outstanding at December 31, 2002. The company is in compliance with all covenants and other requirements set forth in its debt agreements. The company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of its revolving credit facility and public debt. However, a downgrade in the companys credit rating could adversely affect the companys ability to renew existing, or obtain access to new, credit facilities in the future and could increase the cost of such facilities. In February 2001, the company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to register $200 million of debt securities. Although the company does not expect to utilize the shelf registration in the near term, if conditions warrant, the net proceeds from a sale of the securities could be used for capital expenditures, reduction of short term borrowings, working capital, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. The following table summarizes the companys contractual obligations at December 31, 2002: Less than 1 3 4 5 After 5 In millions Total 1 year years years years Long term debt............................ $150 $ $ $ $150 Short term borrowings..................... 12 12 Operating leases.......................... 121 30 39 23 29 Non cancelable purchase commitments....... 292 292 Total contractual obligations............. $575 $334 $39 $23 $179 In October 2001, the company entered into a new agreement to sell its U.S. trade receivables on a limited recourse basis. The new agreement increased the maximum amount of financing available to $225 million. As collections reduce previously sold receivables, the company may replenish these with new receivables. The company bears a risk of bad debt losses on U.S. trade receivables sold, since the company over collateralizes the receivables sold with additional eligible receivables. The company addresses this risk of loss in its allowance for doubtful accounts. Receivables sold may not include amounts over 90 days past due or concentrations over certain limits with any one customer. This facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants as well as specific provisions related to the quality of the accounts receivables sold. The facility also contains customary cash control triggering events which, if triggered, could adversely affect the companys liquidity and or its ability to sell trade receivables. A downgrade in the companys credit rating could reduce the companys ability to sell trade receivables. The facility expires in October 2004, but requires annual renewal of commitments in October 2002 and 2003. The company renewed the annual commitment in 2002 and also expects to renew in 2003. At December 31, 2002, the facility had no U.S. trade receivables sold and outstanding. At December 31, 2001, U.S. trade receivables of $85 million had been sold, and due to the revolving nature of the agreement, $85 million also remained outstanding. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the company did not have any relationship with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, which other companies have established for the purpose of 26 facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Therefore, the company is not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if the company had engaged in such relationships. At the companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders on April 27, 2000, the stockholders approved an increase in the number of authorized shares of its Class A common stock from 450 million to 900 million shares. In July 2002, the company received authorization from the board of directors to repurchase an additional $200 million of its Class A common stock for a total repurchase authority of $1.4 billion. At December 31, 2002, there was approximately $188 million of share repurchase authority remaining. This repurchase authority allows the company, at managements discretion, to selectively repurchase its stock from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon market price and other factors. During 2002, the company repurchased approximately 6.1 million shares in the open market at prices ranging from $41.97 per share to $60.96 per share for a cost of approximately $331 million. As of December 31, 2002, the company had repurchased approximately 34.7 million shares at prices ranging from $10.63 per share to $105.38 per share for an aggregate cost of approximately $1.2 billion. CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Capital expenditures totaled $112 million, $214 million and $297 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The capital expenditures during 2002 were primarily attributable to infrastructure support and new product development. In 2001 and 2000, the capital expenditures were principally for capacity expansion, the support of new products and research and development facilities. During 2003, the company expects capital expenditures to be approximately $125 million, primarily attributable to infrastructure support and new product development. The capital expenditures are expected to be funded primarily through cash from operations. EFFECT OF CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT Revenue derived from international sales, including exports from the United States, make up about half of the companys consolidated revenue, with Europe revenue accounting for approximately two thirds of international sales. Substantially all foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their local currencies. Consequently, period to period comparability of results of operations is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Certain of the companys Latin American entities use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. Lexmarks operations in Argentina were adversely impacted by currency devaluation in late 2001 and the first six months of 2002. This resulted in translation losses of approximately $5 million in 2002 and approximately $2 million in 2001. During the last six months of 2002, the company did not experience significant translation losses related to the Argentina operations. Currency translation has significantly affected international revenue and cost of revenue, and, although it did not have a material impact on operating income for the years 2002 and 2001, the 2000 operating income was materially adversely impacted by exchange rate fluctuations. The company acts to reduce its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations through the use of operational hedges, such as pricing actions and product sourcing decisions. The companys exposure to exchange rate fluctuations generally cannot be minimized solely through the use of operational hedges. Therefore, the company utilizes financial instruments such as forward exchange contracts and currency options to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on actual and anticipated cash flow exposures and certain assets and liabilities which arise from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The company does not purchase currency related financial instruments for purposes other than exchange rate risk management. 27 TAX MATTERS The companys effective income tax rate was approximately 26.0%, 13.9% and 28.0% for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The 2001 effective income tax rate was significantly impacted by the companys resolution with the Internal Revenue Service on certain adjustments related to the allocation of intercompany profits. As a result of this resolution, the company reversed previously accrued taxes, reducing the tax provision in the fourth quarter of 2001 by $40 million. Excluding the impact of this adjustment, the companys effective income tax rate was 26.5% for 2001. The decrease in the effective income tax rate was primarily due to the effect of lower tax rates on manufacturing activities in certain countries. The company and its subsidiaries are subject to tax examinations in various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. The company believes that adequate amounts of tax and related interest have been provided for any adjustments that may result from these examinations. As of December 31, 2002, the company had non U.S. tax loss carryforwards of $16 million, which have an indefinite carryforward period. As of December 31, 2002, the research and development tax credit carryforward available to reduce possible future U.S. income taxes amounted to approximately $13 million, all of which expires in the years 2022 2023. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS 142 no longer permits the amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. Instead, these assets must be reviewed at least annually for impairment. The company adopted SFAS 142 as required on January 1, 2002. During the second quarter of 2002, the company completed the initial transitional goodwill impairment test, which did not indicate any goodwill impairment. Since previously reported goodwill amortization was immaterial for the company in the prior periods presented, the discontinuation of goodwill amortization will not have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Pro forma net earnings and earnings per share are not presented because such amounts are not materially different than amounts previously reported for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. SFAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred and nullifies the previous guidance of EITF No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in Restructuring), which recognized a liability for an exit cost at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan. SFAS 146 requires that the initial measurement of a liability be at fair value. SFAS 146 will be effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. The impact of this statement on the company, should it have any future restructuring activities, would be primarily related to the timing of when charges are recorded. In November 2002, the FASB issued EITF 00 21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables, which addresses revenue recognition accounting by a vendor for arrangements under which it will perform multiple revenue generating activities. The provisions of this statement are effective for revenue arrangements entered into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003. The company is evaluating the effect that this statement may have on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In November 2002, the FASB issued FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. FIN 45 elaborates on required disclosures by a guarantor in its financial statements about obligations under certain guarantees it has issued and clarifies the need for a guarantor to recognize, at the 28 inception of certain guarantees, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. The interpretation is effective for qualified guarantees entered into or modified after December 31, 2002. This interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The disclosure requirements of FIN 45 are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. Refer to Note 2 and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the disclosures required by this pronouncement. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an Amendment of SFAS 123, which provides alternative methods for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. SFAS 148 also amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS 123 to require more prominent disclosures in annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. The transition guidance and annual disclosure provisions of SFAS 148 are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002 and the interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002. Refer to the Stock Based Compensation Accounting Policy found in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the disclosures required by this statement. In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. FIN 46 requires certain variable interest entities to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. FIN 46 is effective for all new variable interest entities created or acquired after January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities created or acquired prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of FIN 46 must be applied for the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2003. The company is evaluating the effect that this statement may have on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. INFLATION The company is subject to the effects of changing prices and operates in an industry where product prices are very competitive and subject to downward price pressures. As a result, future increases in production costs or raw material prices could have an adverse effect on the companys business. However, the company actively manages its product costs and manufacturing processes in an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of any such increases. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND INFORMATION CONCERNING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this report which are not statements of historical fact are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon the company. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting the company will be those anticipated by management, and there are a number of factors that could adversely affect the companys future operating results or cause the companys actual results to differ materially from the estimates or expectations reflected in such forward looking statements, including without limitation, the factors set forth below: Unfavorable global economic conditions may adversely impact the companys future operating results. Since the second quarter of 2001, the company has experienced weak markets for its products. Continued softness in these markets and uncertainty about the timing and extent of the global economic downturn by both corporate and consumer purchasers of the companys 29 products could result in lower demand for the companys products. Weakness in demand may result in excessive inventory for the company and or its reseller channel which may adversely affect sales, pricing, risk of obsolescence and or other elements of the companys operating results. Terrorist attacks and the potential for future terrorist attacks have created many political and economic uncertainties, some of which may affect the companys future operating results. Future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to such attacks, and other acts of war or hostility may affect the companys facilities, employees, suppliers, customers, transportation networks and supply chains, or may affect the company in ways that are not capable of being predicted presently. Revenue derived from international sales make up about half of the companys revenue. Accordingly, the companys future results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, trade protection measures and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Moreover, margins on international sales tend to be lower than those on domestic sales, and the company believes that international operations in new geographic markets will be less profitable than operations in the U.S. and European markets, in part, because of the higher investment levels for marketing, selling and distribution required to enter these markets. The company relies more heavily on its international production facilities and international manufacturing partners for the manufacture of its products and key components of its products. Future operating results may be adversely affected by several factors, including, without limitation, if the companys international operations or manufacturing partners are unable to supply products reliably, if there are disruptions in international trade, disruptions at important geographic points of exit and entry, if there are difficulties in transitioning such manufacturing activities among the company, its international operations and or its manufacturing partners, or if there arise production and supply constraints which result in additional costs to the company. The financial failure or loss of a key supplier could result in a material adverse impact on the companys financial results. The company depends on its information technology systems for the development, manufacture, distribution, marketing, sales and support of its products and services. Any failure in such systems, or the systems of a partner or supplier, may adversely affect the companys operating results. Furthermore, because vast quantities of the companys products flow through only a few distribution centers to provide product to various geographic regions, the failure of information technology systems affecting those product distribution centers could have a material adverse impact on the companys ability to deliver product and on the companys financial results The companys future operating results may be adversely affected if it is unable to continue to develop, manufacture and market products that are reliable, competitive, and meet customers needs. The markets for laser and inkjet products and associated supplies are increasingly competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new technologies and products offering improved features and functionality. The companys inability to effectively deal with these competitive issues could have a material adverse effect on the companys financial results. The company and its major competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and or technological resources than the company, have regularly lowered prices on their products and are expected to continue to do so. In particular, both the inkjet and laser printer markets have experienced and are expected to continue to experience significant price pressure. Price reductions on inkjet or laser products or the inability to reduce costs, including warranty costs, contain expenses or increase sales as currently expected, as well as price 30 protection measures, could result in lower profitability and jeopardize the companys ability to grow or maintain its market share. The company believes that one of its competitive advantages is its exclusive focus on printing solutions. The entrance of a competitor that is also exclusively focused on printing solutions could offset this advantage and could have a material adverse impact on the companys strategy and financial results. The companys performance depends in part upon its ability to successfully forecast the timing and extent of customer demand and manage worldwide distribution and inventory levels to support the demand of its customers. The company must also be able to address production and supply constraints, particularly delays in the supply of key components necessary for production, which may result in lost revenue or in the company incurring additional costs to meet customer demand. The companys future operating results and its ability to effectively grow or maintain its market share may be adversely affected if it is unable to address these issues on a timely basis. The introduction of products by the company or its competitors, or delays in customer purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product introductions by the company or its competitors and market acceptance of new products and pricing programs, the reaction of competitors to any such new products or programs, the life cycles of the companys products, as well as delays in product development and manufacturing, and variations in the cost of component parts, may impact sales, may cause a buildup in the companys inventories, make the transition from current products to new products difficult and could adversely affect the companys future operating results. The competitive pressure to develop technology and products also could cause significant changes in the level of the companys operating expenses. Although the company is currently the exclusive supplier of new cartridges for its laser and inkjet products, there can be no assurance that other companies will not develop new compatible cartridges for the companys products. In addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of the companys cartridges are available and compete with the companys supplies business. The company expects competitive refill and remanufacturing activity to increase. Various legal challenges and governmental activities may intensify competition for the companys aftermarket supplies business. The companys success depends in part on its ability to obtain patents, copyrights and trademarks, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Current or future claims of intellectual property infringement could prevent the company from obtaining technology of others and could otherwise adversely affect its operating results or business, as could expenses incurred by the company in obtaining intellectual property rights, enforcing its intellectual property rights against others or defending against claims that the companys products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The company markets and sells its products through several sales channels. The company has also advanced a strategy of forming alliances and OEM arrangements with many companies. The companys future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between or among its various sales channels, the loss of any alliance or OEM arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. Aggressive pricing on laser and inkjet products and or associated supplies from customers and resellers, including, without limitation, OEM customers, could result in a material adverse impact on the companys strategy and financial results. In addition, the financial failure or loss of a key customer or reseller could have a material adverse impact on the companys financial results. The companys inability to perform satisfactorily under service contracts for managed print services and other customer services may result in the loss of customers, loss of reputation and or financial consequences that may have a material adverse impact on the companys financial results and strategy. 31 Factors unrelated to the companys operating performance, including the financial failure or loss of significant customers, resellers, manufacturing partners or suppliers; the outcome of pending and future litigation or governmental proceedings; and the ability to retain and attract key personnel, could also adversely affect the companys operating results. In addition, the companys stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. Trading activity in the companys common stock, particularly the trading of large blocks and intraday trading in the companys common stock, may affect the companys common stock price. While the company reassesses material trends and uncertainties affecting the companys financial condition and results of operations in connection with the preparation of its quarterly and annual reports, the company does not intend to review or revise, in light of future events, any particular forward looking statement contained in this report. The information referred to above should be considered by investors when reviewing any forward looking statements contained in this report, in any of the companys public filings or press releases or in any oral statements made by the company or any of its officers or other persons acting on its behalf. The important factors that could affect forward looking statements are subject to change, and the company does not intend to update the foregoing list of certain important factors. By means of this cautionary note, the company intends to avail itself of the safe harbor from liability with respect to forward looking statements that is provided by Section 27A and Section 21E referred to above. ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY The market risk inherent in the companys financial instruments and positions represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rates At December 31, 2002, the fair value of the companys senior notes is estimated at $163 million using quoted market prices and yields obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of borrowing arrangements, taking into consideration the underlying terms of the debt. The fair value of the senior notes exceeded the carrying value as recorded in the statements of financial position at December 31, 2002 by approximately $14 million. Market risk is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and amounts to approximately $4 million at December 31, 2002. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates The company employs a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the companys functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the company is exposed include the euro, the Canadian dollar, the Japanese yen, the British pound and other Asian and South American currencies. Exposures are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts, put options, and call options with maturity dates of less than eighteen months. The potential loss in fair value at December 31, 2002 for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $39 million. This loss would be mitigated by corresponding gains on the underlying exposures. 32 (This page intentionally left blank) 33 
 
