ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto: OVERVIEW Lexmark International, Inc. ("Lexmark" or the "company") is a leading developer, manufacturer and supplier of printing solutions including laser and inkjet printers, multifunction products, associated supplies and services for offices and homes. The company also sells dot matrix printers for printing single and multi part forms for business users and develops, manufactures and markets a broad line of other office imaging products. The company is primarily managed along business and consumer market segments. Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the companys reportable segments. Over the past several years, the worldwide office and home printing output opportunity has expanded as copiers and fax machines have been integrated into multifunction products. Lexmarks management believes that this integration of print/copy/fax/scan capabilities favors companies like Lexmark due to its experience in providing industry leading network printing solutions and multifunction printing products. Lexmarks management believes that its total revenue will continue to grow due to projected overall market growth for 2004 to 2006. In recent years, the companys growth rate in sales of printer units has generally exceeded the growth rate of its printer revenue due to sales price reductions and the introduction of new lower priced products in both the laser and inkjet printer markets. In the laser printer market, this pricing pressure is partially offset by the tendency of customers to add higher profit margin optional features including network adapters, document management software, additional memory, paper handling and multifunction capabilities. Pricing pressure is also partially offset by the opportunity to provide business solutions and services to customers who are increasingly looking for assistance to better manage and leverage their document related costs and output infrastructure. In the inkjet product market, advances in inkjet technology have resulted in products with higher resolution and improved performance while increased competition has led to lower prices. The greater affordability of inkjet printers, as well as the growth in the all in one category, have been important factors in the growth of this market. As the installed base of Lexmark laser and inkjet printers and multifunction products continues to grow, management expects the market for supplies will grow as well, as such supplies are routinely required for use throughout the life of those products. While profit margins on printers and multifunction products have been negatively affected by competitive pricing pressure, the supplies are a higher margin, recurring business, which the company expects to contribute to the stability of its earnings over time. The companys dot matrix printers and other office imaging products include many mature products such as supplies for IBM printers, typewriter supplies and other impact technology supplies that require little ongoing investment. The company expects that the market for these products will continue to decline, and has implemented a strategy to continue to offer high quality products while managing cost to maximize cash flow and profit. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Lexmarks discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related 16 disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the company evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, doubtful accounts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, copyright fees, product royalty obligations, restructurings, pension and other postretirement benefits, and contingencies and litigation. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition The company records estimated reductions to revenue at the time of sale for customer programs and incentive offerings including special pricing agreements, promotions and other volume based incentives. Estimated reductions in revenue are based upon historical trends and other known factors at the time of sale. The company also provides price protection to substantially all of its reseller customers. The company records reductions to revenue for the estimated impact of price protection when price reductions to resellers are anticipated. If market conditions were to decline, the company may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts The company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The company determines the estimate of the allowance for doubtful accounts based on a variety of factors including the length of time receivables are past due, the financial health of customers, unusual macroeconomic conditions, and historical experience. If the financial condition of the companys customers deteriorates or other circumstances occur that result in an impairment of customers ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Warranty Reserves The company provides for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. The reserve for product warranties is based on the quantity of units sold under warranty, estimated product failure rates, and material usage and service delivery costs. The estimates for product failure rates and material usage and service delivery costs are periodically adjusted based on actual results. To minimize warranty costs, the company engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ from the companys estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability may be required. Inventory Reserves and Adverse Purchase Commitments The company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value. The company estimates the difference between the cost of obsolete or unmarketable inventory and its market value based upon product demand requirements, product life cycle, product pricing, and quality issues. Also, the company records an adverse purchase commitment liability when anticipated market sales prices are lower than committed costs. If actual market conditions are 17 less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs and adverse purchase commitment liabilities may be required. Long Lived Assets Management considers the potential impairment of both tangible and intangible assets when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An asset impairment review estimates the fair value of an asset based upon the future cash flows that the asset is expected to generate. Such an impairment review incorporates estimates of forecasted revenue and costs that may be associated with an asset, expected periods that an asset may be utilized, and appropriate discount rates. Pension and Postretirement Benefits The company accounts for its defined benefit pension plans and its non pension postretirement benefit plans using actuarial models required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, and SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, respectively. These models use an attribution approach that generally spreads the expected liability for projected benefits over the service lives of the employees in the plan and require that explicit assumptions be used to estimate future events. Examples of assumptions the company must make include selecting the following: expected long term rate of return on plan assets, a discount rate that reflects the rate at which pension benefits could be settled, and the anticipated rates of future compensation increases. The assumed long term rate of return on plan assets and the market related value of plan assets are used to calculate the expected return on plan assets. The required use of an expected versus actual long term rate of return on plan assets may result in recognized pension income that is greater or less than the actual returns of those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the expected long term returns are designed to approximate the actual long term returns and therefore result in a pattern of income and expense recognition that more closely matches the pattern of the services provided by the employees. For the market related value of plan assets, the company uses a calculated value that recognizes changes in asset fair values in a systematic and rational manner. A five year moving average value is used for equities and high yield bonds due to the volatility of these types of investments and fair value is used for all other bonds. Differences between actual and expected returns are recognized in the market related value of plan assets over five years. The company uses long term historical actual return information, the mix of investments that comprise plan assets and future estimates of long term investment returns by reference to external sources to develop its expected return on plan assets. The discount rate assumptions used for pension and non pension postretirement benefit plan accounting reflect the rates available on high quality fixed income debt instruments at December 31 each year. The rate of future compensation increases is determined by the company based upon its long term plans for such increases. Changes in actual asset return experience and discount rate assumptions can impact the companys stockholders equity. Actual asset return experience results in an increase or decrease in the asset base and this effect, in conjunction with a decrease in the pension discount rate, may result in a plans assets being less than a plans accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO"). The ABO is the present value of benefits earned to date and is based on past compensation levels. The company is required to show in its Consolidated Statements of Financial Position a net liability that is at least equal to the ABO less the market value of plan assets. This liability is referred to as an additional minimum liability ("AML"). An AML, which is recorded and updated on December 31 each year, is reflected as a long term pension liability with the offset in other 18 comprehensive earnings (loss) in the equity section of the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (on a net of tax basis) and or as an intangible asset to the degree a company has unrecognized prior service costs. Income Taxes The company estimates its tax liability based on current tax laws in the statutory jurisdictions in which it operates. These estimates include judgments about deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes, as well as about the realization of deferred tax assets. If the provisions for current or deferred taxes are not adequate, if the company is unable to realize certain deferred tax assets or if the tax laws change unfavorably, the company could potentially experience significant losses in excess of the reserves established. Likewise, if the provisions for current and deferred taxes are in excess of those eventually needed, if the company is able to realize additional deferred tax assets or if tax laws change favorably, the company could potentially experience significant gains. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES Although the company had substantially completed all restructuring activities at December 31, 2002 and the employees had exited the business, approximately $4.7 million of severance payments were made during 2003. Refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the companys restructuring activities. BASIS OF PRESENTATION In 2001, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") reached a consensus that consideration from a vendor to a purchaser of the vendors products should be characterized as a reduction in revenue as stated in EITF 00 25, Accounting for Consideration from a Vendor to a Retailer in Connection with the Purchase or Promotion of the Vendors Products, and clarified in EITF 01 9. This EITF consensus was effective for annual or interim financial statements beginning after December 5, 2001, with reclassification required for comparative prior periods. The company adopted this EITF as required in 2002 and the adoption of this statement had no impact on the companys net earnings, financial position or cash flows, but did result in a reclassification of certain prior year reported amounts to conform to the current years presentation. Both revenue and selling, general and administrative expense for the twelve months ended December 31, 2001 were reduced by approximately $38.5 million as a result of this reclassification. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Consolidated revenue in 2003 was $4,755 million, an increase of 9% over 2002. Revenue in the business market segment was $2,627 million in 2003 and increased $242 million, or 10% compared to 2002. This growth was principally due to increases in unit volumes. Revenue in the consumer market segment was $2,128 million in 2003 and increased $159 million, or 8% versus 2002. This growth was principally due to increases in unit volumes. Total U.S. revenue increased $114 million or 6% and international revenue, including exports from the U.S., increased $284 million or 12%. Consolidated gross profit was $1,545 million for 2003, an increase of 13% from 2002. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue for 2003 increased to 32.5% from 31.5% in 2002, an increase of 1.0 percentage point. The increase was principally due to improved supplies margins (1.8 percentage points) and an increased mix of supplies (0.9 percentage point), partially offset by lower printer margins (2.0 percentage points). 19 Total operating expense was $951 million in 2003, an increase of 11% from 2002. Operating expense in 2002 included a $6 million benefit in the fourth quarter of 2002 from the reversal of previously accrued restructuring charges. Operating expense as a percentage of revenue was 20.0%, compared to 19.7% for the corresponding period of 2002. The 0.3 percentage point increase was primarily due to the restructuring reserve reversal in 2002. Consolidated operating income was $594 million in 2003 compared to $511 million in 2002, a 16% increase. The increase in the consolidated operating income was due to a $174 million increase in gross profit, partially offset by a $91 million increase in operating expense. Operating income for the business market segment increased $132 million in 2003, principally due to increased supplies sales. Operating income for the consumer market segment decreased $28 million in 2003, primarily due to lower printer margins. Non operating expenses declined $15 million from 2002 to 2003, principally due to additional interest income in 2003 as a result of the companys strong cash generation and the $5 million write down of a private equity investment during 2002. Net earnings were $439 million in 2003 compared to $367 million in 2002. The increase in net earnings was primarily due to improved operating income and lower non operating expenses. The effective income tax rate remained at 26.0% in 2003 and 2002. Basic net earnings per share were $3.43 for 2003 compared to $2.85 in 2002. Diluted net earnings per share were $3.34 for 2003 compared to $2.79 in 2002. The increases in basic and diluted net earnings per share were primarily due to the increase in net earnings. The following table sets forth the percentage of total revenue represented by certain items reflected in the companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings: 2003 2002 2001 Revenue..................................................... 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Cost of revenue............................................. 67.5% 68.5% 69.8% Gross profit................................................ 32.5% 31.5% 30.2% Research & development...................................... 5.6% 5.7% 6.0% Selling, general & administrative........................... 14.4% 14.2% 14.5% Restructuring & related (reversal)/charges.................. (0.1)% 1.4% Operating income............................................ 12.5% 11.7% 8.3% 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Consolidated revenue in 2002 was $4,356 million, an increase of 6% over 2001. Revenue in the business market segment was $2,386 million in 2002 and increased $18 million, or 1% compared to 2001. This growth was principally due to an increase in supplies unit volumes. Revenue in the consumer market segment was $1,969 million in 2002 and increased $271 million, or 16% versus 2001. This growth was principally due to increases in unit volumes. Total U.S. revenue increased $196 million or 11% and international revenue, including exports from the U.S., increased $56 million or 3%. Consolidated gross profit was $1,371 million for 2002, an increase of 11% from 2001. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue for 2002 increased to 31.5% from 30.2% in 2001, an increase of 1.3 percentage points. The increase was principally due to an increase to supplies in the product mix (2.3 percentage points), higher supplies margins (1.1 percentage points) and the impact of a restructuring related inventory charge of $29 million in 2001 (0.7 percentage point), partially offset by lower printer margins (2.8 percentage points). 20 Total operating expense was $860 million in 2002, a decrease of 4% from 2001. Operating expense in 2002 included a $6 million benefit in the fourth quarter of 2002 from the reversal of previously accrued restructuring charges and operating expense in 2001 included a restructuring charge of approximately $58 million. Operating expense as a percentage of revenue decreased to 19.7% in 2002 compared to 21.9% in 2001. The 2.2 percentage point decrease was primarily due to the restructuring charge in 2001 and the reversal in 2002 as well as the companys continuing focus on expense management and the benefits of the restructuring activities. Consolidated operating income was $511 million in 2002 compared to $341 million in 2001, a 50% increase. Included in the 2002 operating income was the $6 million restructuring reversal benefit noted previously and the 2001 operating income included $88 million of restructuring and related charges. The increase in the consolidated operating income was due to the impact of the restructuring charges, the increased gross profit margin and the decrease in operating expense as a percentage of revenue. Operating income for the business market segment increased $85 million in 2002, principally due to increased supplies sales. Operating income for the consumer market segment increased $39 million in 2002, principally due to increased supplies sales. Non operating expenses declined $8 million from 2001 to 2002, principally due to reduced borrowings at lower interest rates partially offset by a $5 million write down of a private equity investment during 2002. Net earnings were $367 million in 2002 compared to $274 million in 2001. Included in the 2002 net earnings was a $4 million after tax benefit of the restructuring reversal and the 2001 net earnings included restructuring and related charges of $65 million after tax as well as a $40 million benefit from the resolution of income tax matters. After adjusting for the above noted items, the increase in net earnings was primarily due to improved operating income. After adjusting for the $40 million tax benefit in 2001, the income tax provision was 26.0% of earnings before tax for 2002 as compared to 26.5% in 2001. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to lower income tax rates on manufacturing activities in certain countries. Basic net earnings per share were $2.85 for 2002 compared to $2.11 in 2001. The 2002 basic net earnings per share included a $0.03 benefit from the restructuring reversal and the 2001 basic net earnings per share included a $0.50 negative impact from restructuring and related charges and a $0.31 positive impact from the income tax benefit. Diluted net earnings per share were $2.79 for 2002 compared to $2.05 in 2001. The 2002 diluted net earnings per share included a $0.03 benefit from the restructuring reversal and the 2001 diluted net earnings per share included a $0.48 negative impact from restructuring actions and a $0.30 income tax benefit. After adjusting for the noted items, the increases in basic and diluted net earnings per share were primarily due to the increase in net earnings. RETIREMENT RELATED BENEFITS The following table provides the total pre tax cost/(income) related to Lexmarks retirement plans for the years 2003, 2002 and 2001. Cost/(income) amounts are included as an addition to/reduction from, respectively, the companys cost and expense amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. IN MILLIONS 2003 2002 2001 Total cost of retirement related plans...................... $31.1 $15.5 $11.6 Comprised of: Defined benefit plans..................................... $15.8 $(0.2) $(2.4) Defined contribution plans................................ 12.8 11.4 10.0 Non pension postretirement benefits....................... 2.5 4.3 4.0 21 The company uses long term historical actual return experience, the expected investment mix of the plans assets, and future estimates of long term investment returns to develop its assumed rate of return on pension assets used in the net periodic pension calculation. The assumption is reviewed and set annually at the beginning of each year. The company reduced its expected long term asset return assumption on the U.S. plan from 10.0% to 8.5% at the beginning of 2003. This change, and the recognition of losses related to negative pension asset returns over the past few years, increased the cost of defined benefit plans in 2003. At the beginning of 2004, the company further reduced its expected long term asset return assumption on its U.S. plan from 8.5% to 8.0%. This change is expected to increase 2004 pension expense by approximately $3 million. The company annually sets its discount rate assumption for retirement related benefits accounting to reflect the rates available on high quality, fixed income debt instruments at the end of each year. Using this process, the company reduced its discount rate assumption in the U.S. from 7.5% to 6.5% at the end of 2002 and from 6.5% to 6.3% at the end of 2003. These changes, combined with other changes in actuarial assumptions such as the assumed rate of compensation increase, did not have a significant impact on the companys results of operations for 2003, nor are they expected to have a material effect in 2004. Future effects of retirement related benefits, including the changes noted above, on the operating results of the company depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates and investment performance. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Lexmarks primary source of liquidity has been cash generated by operations, which totaled $748 million, $816 million and $196 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Cash from operations generally has been sufficient to allow the company to fund its working capital needs and finance its capital expenditures during these periods along with the repurchase of approximately $5 million and $331 million of its Class A common stock during 2003 and 2002, respectively. The company did not repurchase shares of its Class A common stock during 2001. Management believes that cash provided by operations will continue to be sufficient to meet operating and capital needs. However, in the event that cash from operations is not sufficient, the company has other potential sources of cash through utilization of its revolving credit facility, accounts receivable financing program or other financing sources. Cash flows from operating activities in 2003 were $748 million, compared to $816 million in 2002. These amounts were reduced during 2003 and 2002 by $108 million and $50 million, respectively, due to contributions to the U.S. pension plan. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the 2003 pension contribution. Also contributing to the change in cash flow from operating activities were unfavorable cash flow changes in accrued liabilities, trade receivables and inventories, offset somewhat by favorable cash flow changes in accounts payable and other assets and liabilities as well as increased earnings. In 2002, cash provided by operating activities increased from 2001 due to favorable cash flow changes in working capital accounts, particularly trade receivables, accrued liabilities and inventories. Cash used for investing activities in 2003 was $544 million, compared to $114 million in 2002. The company began investing in marketable securities during the third quarter of 2003, which resulted in a net use of cash of $452 million in 2003. The company spent $94 million on capital expenditures during 2003, compared to $112 million during 2002. Cash provided by financing activities during 2003 was $36 million, compared $302 million cash used for financing activities during 2002. This $338 million increase in cash from financing activities was primarily due to the purchase of $331 million of treasury stock in 2002, compared to $5 million in 2003. 22 The company experienced some significant changes in other balance sheet accounts in 2003. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets was primarily due to a reduction in prepaid income taxes ($43 million) due to a reclassification of prepaid income taxes to net against accrued liabilities for income taxes as well as a reduction in derivative assets ($33 million). Other assets increased $29 million during 2003, primarily due to a $108 million funding of the U.S. pension plan, offset somewhat by a $69 million decrease in deferred tax assets. Effective May 29, 2002, the company entered into a new $500 million unsecured, revolving credit facility with a group of banks, including a $200 million 364 day portion and a $300 million 3 year portion. Upon entering into the new credit agreement, the company terminated the prior $300 million unsecured, revolving credit facility that was due to expire on January 27, 2003. There were no amounts outstanding under the prior facility upon its termination. Under the credit facility, the company may borrow in dollars, euros and certain other currencies. The interest rate ranges from 0.35% to 1.25% above the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") for borrowings denominated in U.S. dollars, the Eurocurrency Interbank Offered Rate ("EURIBOR") for borrowings denominated in euros, or other relevant international interest rate for borrowings denominated in another currency. The interest rate spread is based upon the companys debt ratings. In addition, the company is required to pay a facility fee on the $500 million line of credit of 0.075% to 0.25% based upon the companys debt ratings. The interest and facility fees are payable quarterly. The credit agreement contains customary default provisions, leverage and interest coverage restrictions and certain restrictions on secured and subsidiary debt, disposition of assets, liens and mergers and acquisitions. The 364 day portion of the $500 million credit facility had a maturity date of May 28, 2003. During May 2003, each lender approved the extension of the $200 million 364 day portion of the revolving credit facility with a new maturity date of May 26, 2004. The 3 year portion of the credit facility has a maturity date of May 29, 2005. Any amounts outstanding under the credit facility are due according to the applicable maturity dates noted above. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, there were no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. The company has outstanding $150 million principal amount of 6.75% senior notes due May 15, 2008, which was initially priced at 98.998%, to yield 6.89% to maturity. The senior notes contain typical restrictions on liens, sale leaseback transactions, mergers and sales of assets. There are no sinking fund requirements on the senior notes and they may be redeemed at any time at the option of the company, at a redemption price as described in the related indenture agreement, as supplemented and amended, in whole or in part. A balance of $149 million (net of unamortized discount of $1 million) was outstanding at December 31, 2003. During October 2003, the company entered into interest rate swap contracts to convert its $150 million principal amount of 6.75% senior notes from a fixed interest rate to a variable interest rate. Interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150 million were executed whereby the company will receive interest at a fixed rate of 6.75% and pay interest at a variable rate of approximately 2.76% above the six month LIBOR. These interest rate swaps have a maturity date of May 15, 2008, which is equivalent to the maturity date of the senior notes. The company is in compliance with all covenants and other requirements set forth in its debt agreements. The company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of its revolving credit facility and public debt. However, a downgrade in the companys credit rating could adversely affect the companys ability to renew existing, or obtain access to new, credit facilities in the future and could increase the cost of such facilities. In February 2001, the company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to register $200 million of debt securities. Due to the companys strong 23 cash position, in early 2004 the company determined that it did not plan to utilize the shelf registration, and on January 28, 2004, withdrew its registration pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following table summarizes the companys contractual obligations at December 31, 2003: LESS MORE THAN 1 1 3 3 5 THAN 5 IN MILLIONS TOTAL YEAR YEARS YEARS YEARS Long term debt..................................... $150 $ $ $150 $ Short term borrowings.............................. 1 1 Operating leases................................... 133 33 51 28 21 Purchase obligations............................... 501 492 7 2 Total contractual obligations...................... $785 $526 $58 $180 $21 Purchase obligations reported in the table above include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. In October 2001, the company entered into an agreement to sell its U.S. trade receivables on a limited recourse basis that allowed for a maximum amount of financing availability of $225 million. In October 2003, the agreement was amended and the maximum amount of U.S. trade receivables to be sold was decreased to $200 million. As collections reduce previously sold receivables, the company may replenish these with new receivables. The company bears a limited risk of bad debt losses on U.S. trade receivables sold, since the company over collateralizes the receivables sold with additional eligible receivables. The company addresses this risk of loss in its allowance for doubtful accounts. Receivables sold may not include amounts over 90 days past due or concentrations over certain limits with any one customer. This facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants as well as specific provisions related to the quality of the accounts receivables sold. The facility also contains customary cash control triggering events which, if triggered, could adversely affect the companys liquidity and or its ability to sell trade receivables. A downgrade in the companys credit rating could reduce the companys ability to sell trade receivables. The facility expires in October 2004, and required annual renewal of commitments in October 2002 and 2003. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the facility had no U.S. trade receivables sold and outstanding. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the company did not have any relationship with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, which other companies have established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Therefore, the company is not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if the company had engaged in such relationships. In July 2002, the company received authorization from the board of directors to repurchase an additional $200 million of its Class A common stock for a total repurchase authority of $1.4 billion. At December 31, 2003, there was approximately $183 million of share repurchase authority remaining. This repurchase authority allows the company, at managements discretion, to selectively repurchase its stock from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon market price and other factors. During 2003, the company repurchased approximately 0.1 million shares in the open market at prices ranging from $71.51 per share to $74.30 per share for a cost of approximately $5 million. As of December 31, 2003, the company had repurchased approximately 34.8 million shares at prices ranging from $10.63 per share to $105.38 per share for an aggregate cost of approximately $1.2 billion. 24 CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Capital expenditures totaled $94 million, $112 million and $214 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The capital expenditures were primarily attributable to infrastructure support and new product development during 2003, 2002 and 2001. During 2004, the company expects capital expenditures to be approximately $150 million, primarily attributable to new product development and infrastructure support. The capital expenditures are expected to be funded through cash from operations. EFFECT OF CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT Revenue derived from international sales, including exports from the United States, make up about half of the companys consolidated revenue, with Europe accounting for approximately two thirds of international sales. Substantially all foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their local currencies. Consequently, period to period comparability of results of operations is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Certain of the companys Latin American entities use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. Lexmarks operations in Argentina were adversely impacted by currency devaluation in late 2001 and the first six months of 2002. This resulted in translation losses of approximately $5 million in 2002 and approximately $2 million in 2001. Since June 2002, the company did not experience significant translation losses related to the Argentina operations. Currency translation has significantly affected international revenue and cost of revenue, but it did not have a material impact on operating income during 2002 and 2001. The 2003 operating income was materially positively impacted by exchange rate fluctuations. The company acts to neutralize the effects of exchange rate fluctuations through the use of operational hedges, such as pricing actions and product sourcing decisions. The companys exposure to exchange rate fluctuations generally cannot be minimized solely through the use of operational hedges. Therefore, the company utilizes financial instruments such as forward exchange contracts and currency options to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on actual and anticipated cash flow exposures and certain assets and liabilities which arise from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The company does not purchase currency related financial instruments for purposes other than exchange rate risk management. TAX MATTERS The companys effective income tax rate was approximately 26.0%, 26.0% and 13.9% for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The 2001 effective income tax rate was significantly impacted by the companys resolution with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") on certain adjustments related to the allocation of intercompany profits. As a result of this resolution, the company reversed previously accrued taxes, reducing the tax provision in the fourth quarter of 2001 by $40 million. Excluding the impact of this adjustment, the companys effective income tax rate was 26.5% for 2001. Due to the anticipated expirations of favorable tax laws and geographical shifts in earnings, the company expects the 2004 effective income tax rate to be approximately 27.5%. The IRS has completed its examination of the companys income tax returns for all years through 1996. As of December 31, 2003, the IRS was in the process of examining the companys income tax returns for the years 1997 through 2001. Additionally, the company and its subsidiaries are subject to tax examinations in various states and foreign jurisdictions. The company believes that adequate amounts of taxes and related interest have been provided for any adjustments that may result from these examinations. As of December 31, 2003, the company had non U.S. tax loss carryforwards of $3 million, which have an indefinite carryforward period. 25 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FIN 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. FIN 46 requires certain variable interest entities to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. In December 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46 R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51 (revised December 2003), which replaces FIN 46. FIN 46 R incorporates certain modifications to FIN 46 adopted by the FASB subsequent to the issuance of FIN 46, including modifications to the scope of FIN 46. Additionally, FIN 46 R also incorporates much of the guidance previously issued in the form of FASB Staff Positions. For all special purpose entities ("SPEs") created prior to February 1, 2003, public entities must apply either the provisions of FIN 46 or early adopt the provisions of FIN 46 R at the end of the first interim or annual reporting period ending after December 15, 2003. The company has evaluated the provisions of this interpretation and determined that the interpretation has no impact on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS 149, Amendment of Statement No. 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. SFAS 149 amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and for hedging activities under SFAS 133. SFAS 149 is generally effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003. The company has evaluated the provisions of this statement and determined that this statement has no impact on the companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In December 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 132 (revised 2003), Employers Disclosures about Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits. This Statement revises employers disclosures about pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. It does not change the measurement or recognition of those plans required by SFAS 87, SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits, and SFAS 106. This Statement retains the disclosure requirements contained in SFAS 132, which it replaces. It requires additional disclosures to those in the original SFAS 132 about the assets, obligations, cash flows and net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension plans and other defined benefit postretirement plans. The new rules also require additional disclosures in interim financial statements about the amount of net periodic benefit cost recognized and the amount of contributions paid or to be paid to a plan if significantly different from amounts previously reported. The disclosures are required to be provided separately for pension plans and for other postretirement benefit plans. The newly required annual disclosures are included in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The interim disclosures are required for quarters beginning after December 15, 2003. In December 2003, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 104, Revenue Recognition, which superceded SAB 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements. SAB 104 updated certain interpretive guidance included in SAB 101, including the SAB 101 guidance related to multiple element revenue arrangements, to reflect the issuance of EITF 00 21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. The basic revenue recognition principles of SAB 101 were largely unchanged by the issuance of SAB 104, and therefore, did not have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In January 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. FAS 106 1, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. FSP 106 1 permits employers who sponsor postretirement benefit plans (plan sponsors) that provide prescription drug benefits to retirees to make a one time election to defer accounting for any effects of the Medicare, Prescription Drug, Improvement and 26 Modernization Act of 2003 (the "Act"). Without FSP 106 1, plan sponsors would be required under SFAS 106 to account for the effects of the Act in the fiscal period that includes December 8, 2003, the date the President signed the Act into law. For example, a calendar year plan sponsor would be required to account for the Act for the first time in its 2003 year end financial statements if it uses a year end measurement date, or in its financial statements for the first quarter of calendar 2004 if it uses a September 30 measurement date. If deferral is elected, the deferral must remain in effect until the earlier of (a) the issuance of guidance by the FASB on how to account for the federal subsidy to be provided to plan sponsors under the Act or (b) the remeasurement of plan assets and obligations subsequent to January 31, 2004. The company has elected to defer accounting for the effects of the Act. INFLATION The company is subject to the effects of changing prices and operates in an industry where product prices are very competitive and subject to downward price pressures. As a result, future increases in production costs or raw material prices could have an adverse effect on the companys business. In an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of any such increases, the company must continually manage its product costs and manufacturing processes. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND INFORMATION CONCERNING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this report which are not statements of historical fact are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon the company. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting the company will be those anticipated by management, and there are a number of factors that could adversely affect the companys future operating results or cause the companys actual results to differ materially from the estimates or expectations reflected in such forward looking statements, including without limitation, the factors set forth below: The company and its major competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and or technological resources than the company, have regularly lowered prices on their products and are expected to continue to do so. In particular, both the inkjet and laser printer markets have experienced and are expected to continue to experience significant price pressure. Price reductions on inkjet or laser products or the inability to reduce costs, including warranty costs, contain expenses or increase or maintain sales as currently expected, as well as price protection measures, could result in lower profitability and jeopardize the companys ability to grow or maintain its market share. The companys future operating results may be adversely affected if it is unable to continue to develop, manufacture and market products that are reliable, competitive, and meet customers needs. The markets for laser and inkjet products and associated supplies are aggressively competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new technologies and products offering improved features and functionality. The impact of competitive activities on the sales volumes or revenue of the company, or the companys inability to effectively deal with these competitive issues, could have a material adverse effect on the companys ability to maintain or grow retail shelf space or market share and on its financial results. The introduction of products by the company or its competitors, or delays in customer purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product introductions by the company or its competitors and market acceptance of new products and pricing programs, the reaction of competitors to any such new products or programs, the life cycles of the companys products, as well as delays in product development and manufacturing, and variations in the cost of component parts, may impact sales, may cause a buildup in the companys inventories, make 27 the transition from current products to new products difficult and could adversely affect the companys future operating results. The competitive pressure to develop technology and products and to increase marketing expenditures also could cause significant changes in the level of the companys operating expenses. The companys performance depends in part upon its ability to successfully forecast the timing and extent of customer demand and manage worldwide distribution and inventory levels of the company and its resellers. Unexpected fluctuations in reseller inventory levels could disrupt ordering patterns and may adversely affect the companys financial results. In addition, the financial failure or loss of a key customer or reseller could have a material adverse impact on the companys financial results. The company must also be able to address production and supply constraints, particularly delays or disruptions in the supply of key components necessary for production, which may result in lost revenue or in the company incurring additional costs to meet customer demand. The companys future operating results and its ability to effectively grow or maintain its market share may be adversely affected if it is unable to address these issues on a timely basis. Revenue derived from international sales make up about half of the companys revenue. Accordingly, the companys future results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, trade protection measures and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. In addition, changes in tax laws and the ability to repatriate cash accumulated outside the United States in a tax efficient manner may adversely affect the companys financial results, investment flexibility and operations. Moreover, margins on international sales tend to be lower than those on domestic sales, and the company believes that international operations in new geographic markets will be less profitable than operations in the U.S. and European markets, in part, because of the higher investment levels for marketing, selling and distribution required to enter these markets. The companys effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates. In addition, the amount of income tax the company pays is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a taxing authority could adversely affect the companys profitability. The company relies in large part on its international production facilities and international manufacturing partners for the manufacture of its products and key components of its products. Future operating results may be adversely affected by several factors, including, without limitation, if the companys international operations or manufacturing partners are unable to supply products reliably, if there are disruptions in international trade, disruptions at important geographic points of exit and entry, if there are difficulties in transitioning such manufacturing activities among the company, its international operations and or its manufacturing partners, or if there arise production and supply constraints which result in additional costs to the company. The financial failure or loss of a key supplier could result in a material adverse impact on the companys financial results. The company markets and sells its products through several sales channels. The company has also advanced a strategy of forming alliances and OEM arrangements with many companies. The companys future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between or among its various sales channels, the loss of any alliance or OEM arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. Aggressive pricing on laser and inkjet products and or associated supplies from customers and resellers, including, without limitation, OEM customers, could result in a material adverse impact on the companys strategy and financial results. Unfavorable global economic conditions may adversely impact the companys future operating results. Since the second quarter of 2001, the company has experienced weak markets for its products. Although the company has seen some indications of market improvement in the 28 fourth quarter of 2003, continued softness in these markets and uncertainty about the timing and extent of the global economic downturn by both corporate and consumer purchasers of the companys products could result in lower demand for the companys products. Weakness in demand has resulted in intense price competition and may result in excessive inventory for the company and or its reseller channel, which may adversely affect sales, pricing, risk of obsolescence and or other elements of the companys operating results. Although the company is currently the exclusive supplier of new cartridges for its laser and inkjet products, there can be no assurance that other companies will not develop new compatible cartridges for the companys products. In addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of the companys cartridges are available and compete with the companys supplies business. The company expects competitive refill and remanufacturing activity to increase. Various legal challenges and governmental activities may intensify competition for the companys aftermarket supplies business. The companys success depends in part on its ability to obtain patents, copyrights and trademarks, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Current or future claims of intellectual property infringement could prevent the company from obtaining technology of others and could otherwise materially and adversely affect its operating results or business, as could expenses incurred by the company in obtaining intellectual property rights, enforcing its intellectual property rights against others or defending against claims that the companys products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Furthermore, the imposition of copyright fees or similar fees by copyright owners or collecting societies in certain jurisdictions, primarily in Europe, could adversely affect the companys operating results or business. The companys inability to perform satisfactorily under service contracts for managed print services and other customer services may result in the loss of customers, loss of reputation and or financial consequences that may have a material adverse impact on the companys financial results and strategy. The company depends on its information technology systems for the development, manufacture, distribution, marketing, sales and support of its products and services. Any failure in such systems, or the systems of a partner or supplier, may adversely affect the companys operating results. Furthermore, because vast quantities of the companys products flow through only a few distribution centers to provide product to various geographic regions, the failure of information technology systems or any other disruption affecting those product distribution centers could have a material adverse impact on the companys ability to deliver product and on the companys financial results. Terrorist attacks and the potential for future terrorist attacks have created many political and economic uncertainties, some of which may affect the companys future operating results. Future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to such attacks, and other acts of war or hostility may affect the companys facilities, employees, suppliers, customers, transportation networks and supply chains, or may affect the company in ways that are not capable of being predicted presently. The entrance of additional competitors that are focused on printing solutions could further intensify competition in the inkjet and laser printer markets and could have a material adverse impact on the companys strategy and financial results. Factors unrelated to the companys operating performance, including the financial failure or loss of significant customers, resellers, manufacturing partners or suppliers; the outcome of pending and future litigation or governmental proceedings; and the ability to retain and attract key personnel, could also adversely affect the companys operating results. In addition, the companys stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. Trading activity 29 in the companys common stock, particularly the trading of large blocks and intraday trading in the companys common stock, may affect the companys common stock price. While the company reassesses material trends and uncertainties affecting the companys financial condition and results of operations in connection with the preparation of its quarterly and annual reports, the company does not intend to review or revise, in light of future events, any particular forward looking statement contained in this report. The information referred to above should be considered by investors when reviewing any forward looking statements contained in this report, in any of the companys public filings or press releases or in any oral statements made by the company or any of its officers or other persons acting on its behalf. The important factors that could affect forward looking statements are subject to change, and the company does not intend to update the foregoing list of certain important factors. By means of this cautionary note, the company intends to avail itself of the safe harbor from liability with respect to forward looking statements that is provided by Section 27A and Section 21E referred to above. ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY The market risk inherent in the companys financial instruments and positions represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rates At December 31, 2003, the fair value of the companys senior notes was estimated at $167 million using quoted market prices and yields obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of borrowing arrangements, taking into consideration the underlying terms of the debt. The fair value of the senior notes exceeded the carrying value as recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2003 by approximately $18 million. Market risk is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and amounts to approximately $2 million at December 31, 2003. The company has interest rate swaps that serve as a fair value hedge of the companys senior notes. The fair value of the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2003 was an asset of $0.4 million. Market risk for the interest rate swaps is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and amounts to approximately $2 million at December 31, 2003. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates The company employs a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the companys functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the company is exposed include the euro, the Canadian dollar, the Japanese yen, the British pound and other Asian and South American currencies. Exposures are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts, put options, and call options with maturity dates of less than eighteen months. The potential loss in fair value at December 31, 2003 for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $89 million. This loss would be mitigated by corresponding gains on the underlying exposures. 30 
 
