Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto presented under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K. OVERVIEW Products and Segments Lexmark makes it easier for businesses and consumers to move information between the digital and paper worlds. Since its inception in 1991, Lexmark has become a leading developer, manufacturer and supplier of printing and imaging solutions for offices and homes. Lexmarks products include laser printers, inkjet printers, multifunction devices, and associated supplies, services and solutions. Lexmark also sells dot matrix printers for printing single and multi part forms by business users. The Company is primarily managed along Business and Consumer market segments: The Business market segment primarily sells laser products and serves business customers but also include consumers who choose laser products. Laser products can be divided into two major categories shared workgroup products and lower priced desktop products. Lexmark employs large account sales and marketing teams, closely supported by its development and product marketing teams, to generate demand for its business printing solutions and services. The sales and marketing teams primarily focus on industries such as finance, services, retail, manufacturing, public sector and health care. Lexmark also markets its laser and inkjet products increasingly through SMB teams who work closely with channel partners. The Company distributes and fulfills its laser products primarily through its well established distributor and reseller network. Lexmarks products are also sold through solution providers, which offer custom solutions to specific markets, and through direct response resellers. The Consumer market segment predominantly sells inkjet products to consumers but also includes business users who may choose inkjet products as a lower priced alternative or supplement to laser products for personal desktop use. Also, there is an increasing trend in inkjet products being designed for business purposes such as SOHO, small business, student and home offices. Additionally, over the past couple years, the number of consumers seeking productivity related features has driven significant growth in AIO products. For the consumer market, Lexmark distributes its branded inkjet products and supplies primarily through retail outlets worldwide. Lexmarks sales and marketing activities are organized to meet the needs of the various geographies and the size of their markets. The Company also sells its products through numerous alliances and OEM arrangements. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Companys reportable segments, which is incorporated herein by reference. Operating Results Summary 2007 Lexmark believes it is experiencing shrinkage in its installed base of inkjet products and an associated decline in end user demand for inkjet supplies. The Company sees the potential for continued erosion in end user inkjet supplies demand due to the reduction in inkjet hardware unit sales reflecting the Companys decision to focus on more profitable printer placements, a mix shift between cartridges resulting in a higher percentage of moderate use cartridges and the weakness the Company is experiencing in its OEM business. Beginning in the second quarter of 2007, the Companys Consumer segment experienced on going declines in inkjet supplies and OEM unit sales, lower average unit revenues (AURs) and additional costs 24 in its new products. As the Company has analyzed the situation, it saw that some of its unit sales were not generating adequate lifetime profitability, some markets and channels were on the low end of the supplies generation distribution curve and its business was too skewed to the low end versus the market. As a result, the Company decided to more aggressively shift the Companys focus to geographic regions, market segments, and customers that generate higher page usage and minimize the unit sales that do not generate an acceptable profit over their life. The above actions will entail several initiatives: Investing in research and development and core inkjet technology. Optimizing the Companys marketing and sales initiatives and prioritizing specific markets and channels relative to page generation and lifetime profitability. Improving the Companys cost and expense structure. In 2007, Lexmark continued to make progress on its product expansion with the introduction of a new line of color multifunction devices and wireless inkjet products. Lexmark also continued to make progress in brand development with the continuation and evolution of its advertising campaign from 2006. In 2007, the Company experienced strong branded unit growth in workgroup laser devices and high end inkjets. 2006 During 2006, the Lexmark announced a number of actions in January 2006 that were implemented during that year: The Company implemented a more rigorous process to improve lifetime profitability and payback on inkjet sales. The Company announced a plan to restructure its workforce, consolidate some manufacturing capacity and make certain changes to its U.S. retirement plans. In 2006, Lexmark continued to make progress on its core strategic initiatives in both product segment expansion and brand development resulting in numerous new product introductions. In 2006, the Company also experienced branded unit growth in its key focus segments with strong growth in low end monochrome lasers, color lasers, laser MFPs and inkjet AIOs. Additionally, in late 2006, Lexmark launched the next step in its brand development initiative with the start of a new advertising campaign which the Company continued in 2007. Refer to the section entitled RESULTS OF OPERATIONS that follows for a further discussion of the Companys results of operations. Trends and Opportunities Lexmark management believes that the total distributed office and home printing output opportunity was approximately $95 billion in 2007, including hardware, supplies and related services. This opportunity includes printers and multifunction devices as well as a declining base of copiers and fax machines that are increasingly being integrated into multifunction devices. Based on industry analyst information, Lexmark management estimates that this market will grow annually at low to mid single digit percentage rates through 2011. Market trends driving long term growth include: Continuing improvement in price/performance points; Increased adoption of color and graphics output in business; Advancements in electronic movement of information, driving more pages to be printed by end users when and where it is convenient to do so; 25 Continued convergence in technology between printers, scanners, copiers and fax machines into single, integrated AIO devices; and Advancements in digital photography driving the opportunity to print digital images on distributed output devices. As a result of these market trends, Lexmark has growth opportunities in monochrome laser printers, color lasers, laser MFPs and inkjet AIOs. Industry laser printer unit growth in recent years has generally exceeded the growth rate of laser printer revenue due to unit growth in lower priced desktop color and monochrome laser printers and unit price reductions. Additionally, color and multifunction laser printer units represent a more significant component of laser unit growth. Management believes these trends will continue. This pricing pressure is partially offset by the tendency of customers in the shared workgroup laser market to add higher profit margin optional features. In the inkjet product market, advances in inkjet technology have resulted in products with higher resolution and improved performance while increased competition has led to lower prices. Also, there is an increasing trend in inkjet products being designed for business purposes such as SOHO, small business, student and home offices. Additionally, over the past couple years, the number of consumers seeking productivity related features has driven significant growth in AIO products. Key factors promoting this trend are greater affordability of AIOs containing productivity features. Management believes the combination of business features made for the home will continue to drive AIO growth. Growth in inkjet hardware revenue on an industry basis in recent years has been lower than unit growth due to price reductions. While profit margins on printers and MFPs have been negatively affected by competitive pricing pressure, supplies sales are higher margin and recurring. In general, as the hardcopy industry matures and printer and copier markets converge, management expects competitive pressures to continue. Lexmarks dot matrix printers include mature products that require little ongoing investment. The Company expects that the market for these products will continue to decline, and has implemented a strategy to continue to offer high quality products while managing cost to maximize cash flow and profit. Challenges and Risks In recent years, Lexmark and its principal competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and or technological resources than the Company, have regularly lowered prices on printers and are expected to continue to do so. Other challenges and risks faced by Lexmark include: New product announcements by the Companys principal competitors can have, and in the past, have had, a material adverse effect on the Companys financial results. With the convergence of traditional printer and copier markets, major laser competitors now include traditional copier companies. The Company must compete with its larger competitors for retail shelf space allocated to printers and their associated supplies. The Company sees other competitors and the potential for new entrants into the market possibly having an impact on the Companys growth and market share. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant supplies pricing pressure, but if supplies pricing was to come under significant pressure, the Companys financial results could be materially adversely affected. 26 Refill, remanufactured, clones, counterfeits and other compatible alternatives for some of the Companys cartridges are available and compete with the Companys supplies business. As the installed base of laser and inkjet products matures, the Company expects competitive supplies activity to increase. Lexmark expects that as it competes with larger competitors, the Companys increased market presence may attract more frequent challenges, both legal and commercial, including claims of possible intellectual property infringement. Refer to the section entitled Competition in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of major uncertainties faced by the industry and Company. Additionally, refer to the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of factors that could impact the Companys operating results. Strategy and Initiatives Lexmarks strategy is based on a business model of investing in technology to develop and sell printing solutions, including printers and MFPs, with the objective of growing its installed base, which drives recurring supplies sales. Management believes that Lexmark has the following strengths related to this business model: Lexmark is exclusively focused on distributed home and office network or desktop computer printing and imaging, and related solutions. Lexmark internally develops all three of the key print technologies associated with distributed printing, including inkjet, monochrome laser and color laser. Lexmark has leveraged its technological capabilities and its commitment to flexibility and responsiveness to build strong relationships with large account customers and channel partners. Lexmarks strategy involves the following core strategic initiatives: Shift the Consumer market strategy to focus on customers, markets and channels that drive higher page generation and supplies; Leverage the Companys unique strengths in the Business market segment to grow workgroup devices; and Continue to develop Lexmarks brand awareness and brand positioning. In addition to investments in the Lexmark brand, the successful execution of this strategy involves increased investments in both the Companys sales force and product and solution development. The Company increased its research and development spending by 9% in 2007, by 10% in 2006 and by 8% in 2005. This investment has led to new products and solutions aimed at targeted growth segments as well as a pipeline of future products. The Companys strategy for dot matrix printers is to continue to offer high quality products while managing cost to maximize cash flow and profit. Refer to the section entitled Strategy in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of the Companys strategies and initiatives. 27 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Lexmarks discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, doubtful accounts, inventories, stock based compensation, income taxes, warranty obligations, copyright fees, restructurings, pension and other postretirement benefits, and contingencies and litigation. Lexmark bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, if different estimates reasonably could have been used, or if changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially impact the financial statements. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Lexmark records estimated reductions to revenue at the time of sale for customer programs and incentive offerings including special pricing agreements, promotions and other volume based incentives. Estimated reductions in revenue are based upon historical trends and other known factors at the time of sale. Lexmark also records estimated reductions to revenue for price protection, which it provides to substantially all of its distributor and reseller customers. The amount of price protection is limited based on the amount of dealers and resellers inventory on hand (including in transit inventory) as of the date of the price change. If market conditions were to decline, Lexmark may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings or reduce prices, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts Lexmark maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The Company estimates the allowance for doubtful accounts based on a variety of factors including the length of time receivables are past due, the financial health of its customers, unusual macroeconomic conditions and historical experience. If the financial condition of its customers deteriorates or other circumstances occur that result in an impairment of customers ability to make payments, the Company records additional allowances as needed. Stock Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, Lexmark implemented the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123R) and related interpretations. SFAS 123R requires that all share based payments to employees, including grants of stock options, be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair value. The Company selected the modified prospective transition method for implementing SFAS 123R and began recognizing compensation expense for stock based awards granted on or after January 1, 2006, plus any unvested awards granted prior to January 1, 2006. Under this transition method, prior periods have not been restated. Stock based compensation expense for awards granted on or after January 1, 2006, is based on the grant date fair value calculated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123R. Stock based compensation related to any unvested awards granted prior to January 1, 2006, is based on the grant date fair value 28 calculated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. The fair value of the Companys stock based awards, less estimated forfeitures, is amortized over the awards vesting periods on a straight line basis. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for the costs of its stock based employee compensation plans under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25), and related interpretations. Under APB 25, compensation cost was not recognized for substantially all options granted because the exercise price was at least equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of each option award on the grant date was estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: expected dividend yield, expected stock price volatility, weighted average risk free interest rate and weighted average expected life of the options. Under SFAS 123R, the Companys expected volatility assumption used in the Black Scholes option pricing model was based exclusively on historical volatility and the expected life assumption was established based upon an analysis of historical option exercise behavior. The risk free interest rate used in the Black Scholes model was based on the implied yield currently available on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the Companys expected term assumption. The Company has never declared or paid any cash dividends on the Class A Common Stock and has no current plans to pay cash dividends on the Class A Common Stock. The payment of any future cash dividends will be determined by the Companys board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including the Companys earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, restrictions in financing agreements, business conditions, tax laws, certain corporate law requirements and various other factors. Restructuring Lexmark records a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity at its fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred, except for liabilities for certain employee termination benefit charges that are accrued over time. Employee termination benefits associated with an exit or disposal activity are accrued when the obligation is probable and estimable as a postemployment benefit obligation when local statutory requirements stipulate minimum involuntary termination benefits or, in the absence of local statutory requirements, termination benefits to be provided are similar to benefits provided in prior restructuring activities. Specifically for termination benefits under a one time benefit arrangement, the timing of recognition and related measurement of a liability depends on whether employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and, if so, whether employees will be retained to render service beyond a minimum retention period. For employees who are not required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits or employees who will not provide service beyond the minimum retention period, the Company records a liability for the termination benefits at the communication date. If employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained to render service beyond the minimum retention period, the Company measures the liability for termination benefits at the communication date and recognizes the expense and liability ratably over the future service period. For contract termination costs, Lexmark records a liability for costs to terminate a contract before the end of its term when the Company terminates the agreement in accordance with the contract terms or when the Company ceases using the rights conveyed by the contract. The Company records a liability for other costs associated with an exit or disposal activity in the period in which the liability is incurred. Once Company management approves an exit or disposal activity, the Company closely monitors the expenses that are reported in association with the activity. Warranty Lexmark provides for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. The amounts accrued for product warranties is based on the quantity of units sold under warranty, estimated product failure rates, and material usage and service delivery costs. The estimates for product failure rates and material usage and service delivery costs are periodically adjusted based on actual results. For 29 extended warranty programs, the Company defers revenue in short term and long term liability accounts (based on the extended warranty contractual period) for amounts invoiced to customers for these programs and recognizes the revenue ratably over the contractual period. Costs associated with extended warranty programs are expensed as incurred. To minimize warranty costs, the Company engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ from the Companys estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability may be required. Inventory Reserves and Adverse Purchase Commitments Lexmark writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value. The Company estimates the difference between the cost of obsolete or unmarketable inventory and its market value based upon product demand requirements, product life cycle, product pricing and quality issues. Also, Lexmark records an adverse purchase commitment liability when anticipated market sales prices are lower than committed costs. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs and adverse purchase commitment liabilities may be required. Long Lived Assets Lexmark performs reviews for the impairment of long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition are less than its carrying amount. If future expected undiscounted cash flows are insufficient to recover the carrying value of the assets, then an impairment loss is recognized based upon the excess of the carrying value of the asset over the anticipated cash flows on a discounted basis. Such an impairment review incorporates estimates of forecasted revenue and costs that may be associated with an asset, expected periods that an asset may be utilized and appropriate discount rates. Lexmark also reviews any legal and contractual obligations associated with the retirement of its long lived assets and records assets and liabilities, as necessary, related to the cost of such obligations. Costs associated with such obligations that are reasonably estimable and probable are accrued and expensed, or capitalized as appropriate. The asset recorded is recorded during the period in which it occurs and is amortized over the useful life of the related long lived tangible asset. The liability recorded is relieved when the costs are incurred to retire the related long lived tangible asset. The cost of each obligation is estimated based on current law and technology; accordingly, such estimates could change materially as the Company periodically evaluates and revises such estimates based on expenditures against established reserves and the availability of additional information. The Companys asset retirement obligations are currently not material. Pension and Other Postretirement Plans The Companys pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various actuarial assumptions used in calculating such amounts. The non U.S. pension plans are not significant and use economic assumptions similar to the U.S. pension plan. Significant assumptions the Company must review and set annually related to its pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are: Expected long term return on plan assets based on long term historical actual asset return information, the mix of investments that comprise plan assets and future estimates of long term investment returns by reference to external sources. Discount rate reflects the rates at which benefits could effectively be settled and is based on current investment yields of high quality fixed income investments. The Company uses a yield curve approach to determine the assumed discount rate in the U.S. based on the timing of the cash flows of the expected future benefit payments. 30 Rate of compensation increase based on the Companys long term plans for such increases. Effective April 2006, this assumption is no longer applicable to the U.S. pension plan due to the benefit accrual freeze in connection with the Companys 2006 restructuring actions. Differences between actual and expected asset returns on equity investments are recognized in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost over five years. The deferred amounts resulting from this averaging process would have reduced 2007 pension expense by approximately $6 million for US plans and are not expected to have a significant effect on the Companys results of operations for 2008. Actual results that differ from assumptions that fall outside the 10% corridor, as defined by SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, are accumulated and amortized over the estimated future service period of active plan participants. For 2007, a 25 basis point change in the assumptions for asset return and discount rate would not have had a significant impact on the Companys results of operations. Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (SFAS 158). SFAS 158 requires recognition of the funded status of a benefit plan in the statement of financial position and recognition in other comprehensive earnings of certain gains and losses that arise during the period, but are deferred under pension accounting rules. Income Taxes The Company estimates its tax liability based on current tax laws in the statutory jurisdictions in which it operates. These estimates include judgments about deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes, as well as about the realization of deferred tax assets. If the provisions for current or deferred taxes are not adequate, if the Company is unable to realize certain deferred tax assets or if the tax laws change unfavorably, the Company could potentially experience significant losses in excess of the reserves established. Likewise, if the provisions for current and deferred taxes are in excess of those eventually needed, if the Company is able to realize additional deferred tax assets or if tax laws change favorably, the Company could potentially experience significant gains. In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold as more likely than not that a tax position must meet before being recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting for income taxes in interim periods, financial statement disclosure and transition rules. The evaluation of a tax position in accordance with FIN 48 is a two step process. The first step is recognition: The enterprise determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any litigation. The second step is measurement: A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution. The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 and related guidance on January 1, 2007. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, the Company reduced its liability for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties by $7.3 million, which resulted in a corresponding increase in the Companys January 1, 2007, retained earnings balance. The Company also recorded an increase in its deferred tax assets of $8.5 million and a corresponding increase in its liability for unrecognized tax benefits as a result of adopting FIN 48. Copyright Fees Certain countries (primarily in Europe) and or collecting societies representing copyright owners interests have taken action to impose fees on devices (such as scanners, printers and multifunction devices) 31 alleging the copyright owners are entitled to compensation because these devices enable reproducing copyrighted content. Other countries are also considering imposing fees on certain devices. The amount of fees, if imposed, would depend on the number of products sold and the amounts of the fee on each product, which will vary by product and by country. The Company has accrued amounts that it believes are adequate to address the risks related to the copyright fee issues currently pending. The financial impact on the Company, which will depend in large part upon the outcome of local legislative processes, the Companys and other industry participants outcome in contesting the fees and the Companys ability to mitigate that impact by increasing prices, which ability will depend upon competitive market conditions, remains uncertain. Contingencies and Litigation In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, Lexmark records a provision for a loss contingency when management believes that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes it has adequate provisions for any such matters. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operations Overview Key Messages Lexmark is focused on driving long term performance by strategically investing in technology, demand generation and brand development to enable the Company to profitably capture supplies in high page growth segments of the distributed printing market. The Business market segment strategy is focused on growth in higher page generating workgroup class lasers including monochrome and color laser printers and MFPs. During 2007, the Company experienced double digit unit growth in its branded workgroup and laser MFP units and growth in laser supplies. The Company is aggressively shifting its focus in the Consumer market segment to geographic regions, product segments, and customers that generate higher page usage. This strategy shift will increase the Companys focus on higher priced, higher usage devices, customers and countries and will accelerate its investments to better meet the needs of those customers and product segments. The Companys initiative in wireless inkjets is a part of the strategic shift and although wireless is a small part of the overall inkjet market, the Company believes its the fastest growing part of the market and it has already captured some significant market share. Lexmark is taking actions to improve its cost and expense structure including continuing to implement a restructuring of its business to lower its cost and better allow it to fund these strategic initiatives. Lexmark continues to maintain a strong financial position with good cash generation and a solid balance sheet, which positions it to invest in the future of the business and compete effectively even during challenging times. 2007 Business Factors Business segment During 2007, Lexmark continued its investments in the Business market segment through new products and technology. The Company expects these investments to produce a steady stream of new products. Lexmark continued to make progress on its product expansion initiative with the introduction of a new line of color multifunction devices. Lexmark continued to make progress on its brand development initiative with the continuation and evolution of its advertising campaign from 2006. The Company continued its investment in the 32 expansion of managed print services and industry sales initiatives. Lexmark also made a significant investment in its enterprise sales force in 2007 to improve its coverage and expand the reach of its solutions and services proposition. The focus of all of these Business market investments is to drive workgroup laser growth and page generation. Consumer segment Lexmark believes it is experiencing shrinkage in its installed base of inkjet products and an associated decline in end user demand for inkjet supplies. The Company sees the potential for continued erosion in end user inkjet supplies demand due to the reduction in inkjet hardware unit sales reflecting the Companys decision to focus on more profitable printer placements, a mix shift between cartridges resulting in a higher percentage of moderate use cartridges and the weakness the Company is experiencing in its OEM business. Additionally, Lexmark expects to see continued declines in OEM unit sales and aggressive pricing and promotion activities in the inkjet and laser markets. Beginning in the second quarter of 2007, the Company experienced the following issues in its Consumer segment: On going declines in inkjet supplies and OEM unit sales. Lower average unit revenues due to aggressive pricing and promotion. Additional costs in its new products. As the Company analyzed the situation, it saw the following: Some of its unit sales were not generating adequate lifetime profitability due to lower prices, higher costs and supplies usage below its model. Some markets and channels were on the low end of the supplies generation distribution curve. Its business was too skewed to the low end versus the market, resulting in lower supplies generation per unit. As a result, Lexmark decided to take the following actions: The Company has decided to more aggressively shift its focus to geographic regions, market segments and customers that generate higher page usage. The Company is working to minimize the unit sales that do not generate an acceptable profit over their life. The above actions will entail several initiatives: Investing in research and development and core inkjet technology to better support this higher usage customer set. Optimizing the Companys marketing and sales initiatives and prioritizing specific markets and channels relative to page generation and lifetime profitability. For the highest priority markets, this will mean a focus on expanding retail and non retail sales, and associated marketing campaigns. For the lowest priority markets, this will mean less or no retail sales. As a result of this market prioritization and the previously mentioned business optimization, the Company estimates that approximately 30% of its full year 2007 inkjet unit sales will not be anniversaried in 2008. Improving the Companys cost and expense structure. The Company announced a restructuring plan (the 2007 Restructuring Plan) to reduce its cost and infrastructure, including the closure of one of its inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Mexico and additional optimization measures at the remaining inkjet facilities in Mexico and the Philippines. See Restructuring related Charges, Project Costs and Other that follows for further discussion. 33 2006 Business Factors To improve profitability and the Companys cost and expense structure, Lexmark announced a number of actions in January 2006 that were implemented during that year: The Company implemented a more rigorous process to improve lifetime profitability and payback on inkjet sales which resulted in a reduction of approximately 20% of its worldwide inkjet business. The Company announced a plan (collectively referred to as the 2006 actions) to restructure its workforce, to consolidate some supplies manufacturing capacity, to reduce costs and expenses in the areas of supply chain, general and administrative expense, as well as marketing and sales support functions and to make certain changes to its U.S. retirement plans. Except for approximately 100 positions that were eliminated in 2007, the restructuring related activities related to the 2006 actions were substantially completed at the end of 2006. In 2006, Lexmark continued to make progress on its core strategic initiatives in both product segment expansion and brand development resulting in new product introductions with new families of low end monochrome lasers, color lasers, laser MFPs and inkjet AIOs. These new products received significant industry recognition and awards. In 2006, the Company also experienced branded unit growth in its key focus segments with strong growth in low end monochrome lasers, color lasers, laser MFPs and inkjet AIOs. Additionally, in late 2006, Lexmark launched the next step in its brand development initiative with the start of a new television advertising campaign along with radio, print and outdoor advertising in targeted geographic and market segments. This integrated campaign highlights Lexmarks deep and proven experience serving 75% of the top banks, retailers and pharmacies while highlighting the opportunity for small and medium businesses and consumers to benefit from our business class expertise. The Company continued this campaign in 2007 as Lexmarks focus is to drive branded unit growth in its key growth segments. Operating Results Summary The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. The following table summarizes the results of the Companys operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 (Dollars in Millions) Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Revenue $ 4,973 .9 100% $ 5,108 .1 100% $ 5,221 .5 100% Gross profit 1,563 .6 31% 1,646 .0 32% 1,635 .6 31% Operating expense 1,242 .3 25% 1,203 .5 24% 1,101 .9 21% Operating income 321 .3 6% 442 .5 9% 533 .7 10% Net earnings 300 .8 6% 338 .4 7% 356 .3 7% During 2007, total revenue was $5.0 billion or down 3% from 2006. Laser and inkjet supplies revenue increased 1% year to year (YTY) while laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 10% YTY. In the Business segment, revenue increased 5% YTY while revenue in the Consumer segment decreased 12% YTY. During 2006, total revenue was $5.1 billion or down 2% from 2005. Laser and inkjet supplies revenue increased 3% YTY while laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 8%YTY. In the Business segment, revenue increased 3% YTY while revenue in the Consumer segment decreased 8% YTY. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007, decreased 11% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. Net earnings in 2007 included $30.8 million of pre tax restructuring related charges in connection with the 2007 Restructuring Plan. 34 Additionally, during 2007, the Company incurred incremental charges related to the execution of its 2007 Restructuring Plan and its 2006 actions (collectively referred to as project costs). Net earnings in 2007 included $21.2 million (net of a $3.5 million pre tax gain on the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility) of these pre tax project costs. See Restructuring related Charges, Project Costs and Other that follows for further discussion. Net earnings in 2007 also included an $8.1 million pre tax foreign exchange gain realized upon the substantial liquidation of the Companys Scotland entity, an $18 million tax benefit primarily related to the settlement of a tax audit outside the U.S. and an $11 million tax benefit resulting from adjustments to previously recorded taxes. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2006, decreased 5% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. Net earnings in 2006 included $135.1 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs, a $9.9 million pre tax pension curtailment gain and a $14.3 million income tax benefit from the reversal of previously accrued taxes related to the finalization of certain tax audits and the expiration of various domestic and foreign statutes of limitation. Net earnings in 2005 included increased income tax expense of $51.9 million resulting from the repatriation of foreign dividends during 2005 and $10.4 million of one time pre tax termination benefit charges related to a 2005 workforce reduction plan. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company incurred pre tax stock based compensation expense under SFAS 123R of $41.3 million and $43.2 million, respectively. The Company recorded pre tax compensation expense of $2.9 million in 2005 related to its stock incentive plans prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R. Revenue The following tables provide a breakdown of the Companys revenue by product category, hardware unit shipments and market segment: Revenue by product: (Dollars in Millions) 2007 2006 % Change 2006 2005 % Change Laser and inkjet printers $ 1,498.3 $ 1,663.0 (10 )% $ 1,663.0 $ 1,799.4 (8 )% Laser and inkjet supplies 3,248.6 3,211.6 1 % 3,211.6 3,117.2 3 % Other 227.0 233.5 (3 )% 233.5 304.9 (23 )% Total revenue $ 4,973.9 $ 5,108.1 (3 )% $ 5,108.1 $ 5,221.5 (2 )% Unit shipments: (Units in Millions) 2007 2006 2005 Laser units 2.1 2.1 2.0 Inkjet units 12.1 14.7 18.4 During 2007, laser and inkjet supplies revenue increased 1% YTY as good growth in laser supplies was mostly offset by a decline in inkjet supplies. Laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 10% primarily due to a decline in inkjet units. During 2006, laser and inkjet supplies revenue increased 3% YTY as good growth in laser supplies was partially offset by a decline in inkjet supplies. Laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 8% with growth in laser hardware units more than offset by the decline in inkjet hardware units. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, one customer, Dell, accounted for $717 million or approximately 14%, $744 million or approximately 15% and $782 million or approximately 15%, of the Companys total revenue, respectively. Sales to Dell are included in both the Business and Consumer segments. 35 Revenue by market segment: (Dollars in Millions) 2007 2006 % Change 2006 2005 % Change Business $ 2,999.2 $ 2,869.1 5 % $ 2,869.1 $ 2,774.8 3 % Consumer 1,974.7 2,239.0 (12 )% 2,239.0 2,446.7 (8 )% Total revenue $ 4,973.9 $ 5,108.1 (3 )% $ 5,108.1 $ 5,221.5 (2 )% Business segment During 2007, revenue in the Business segment increased $130 million or 5% compared to 2006 due to growth in laser supplies revenue partially offset by a decline in laser hardware revenue. Laser hardware unit shipments decreased approximately 3% YTY reflecting strong unit growth in laser MFPs and branded workgroup printers which was more than offset by a decline in low end monochrome lasers. Laser hardware AUR, which reflects the changes in both pricing and mix, increased approximately 1% YTY due to the positive mix shift. During 2006, revenue in the Business segment increased $94 million or 3% compared to 2005 principally due to higher laser supplies revenue. Laser hardware unit shipments increased approximately 9% YTY with strong growth in branded unit sales partially offset by declines in OEM unit sales. Laser hardware AUR decreased approximately 9% YTY reflecting price declines and a mix shift to low end monochrome lasers. Consumer segment During 2007, revenue in the Consumer segment decreased $264 million or 12% compared to 2006 due to decreased inkjet hardware and supplies revenue. Hardware revenue declined YTY due to lower unit shipments and lower AURs. Inkjet hardware unit shipments declined 18% YTY principally due to declines in OEM units and the Companys decision to prioritize certain markets, segments and customers and to reduce or eliminate others. Units were also impacted by the Companys decision to focus on more profitable printer placements in every geography. Inkjet hardware AUR decreased 3% YTY as price declines were partially offset by a favorable mix shift to AIOs. During 2006, revenue in the Consumer segment decreased $208 million or 8% compared to 2005 primarily due to decline in inkjet hardware units. Inkjet unit shipments decreased approximately 20% YTY. Inkjet hardware AUR increased approximately 2% YTY as a favorable product mix shift to AIOs was partially offset by price declines. Revenue by geography: The following table provides a breakdown of the Companys revenue by geography: (Dollars in Millions) 2007 2006 % Change 2006 2005 % Change United States $ 2,140.3 $ 2,245.3 (5 )% $ 2,245.3 $ 2,360.5 (5 )% EMEA (Europe, the Middle East Africa) 1,827.2 1,843.1 (1 )% 1,843.1 1,853.8 (1 )% Other International 1,006.4 1,019.7 (1 )% 1,019.7 1,007.2 1 % Total revenue $ 4,973.9 $ 5,108.1 (3 )% $ 5,108.1 $ 5,221.5 (2 )% During 2007, revenue decreased in all geographies primarily due to the previously mentioned decline in Consumer segment revenues. Currency exchange rates did have a material favorable impact on revenue in Europe and Other International geographies during 2007. During 2006, revenue decreased in the U.S. primarily due to the decline in inkjet hardware units. Currency exchange rates did not have a material impact on revenue in Europe and Other International geographies during 2006. 36 Gross Profit The following table provides gross profit information: (Dollars in Millions) 2007 2006 Change 2006 2005 Change Gross profit dollars $ 1,563.6 $ 1,646.0 (5)% $ 1,646.0 $ 1,635.6 1% % of revenue 31.4% 32.2% (0.8)pts 32.2% 31.3% 0.9pts During 2007, consolidated gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased when compared to the prior year. The change in the gross profit margin over the prior period was primarily due to a 4.2 percentage point decrease in product margins, principally in inkjet hardware, partially offset by a 3.0 percentage point favorable mix shift among products, primarily driven by less inkjet hardware revenue and a 0.4 percentage point improvement attributable to restructuring related actions primarily from a reduction in accelerated depreciation charges YTY. Gross profit in 2007 included $5.1 million of restructuring related charges and $11.9 million of project costs in connection with its restructuring activities. See Restructuring related Charges, Project Costs and Other that follows for further discussion. During 2006, consolidated gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of revenue increased when compared to the prior year. The change in the gross profit margin over the prior period was primarily due to a 3.3 percentage point favorable mix shift among products, mostly from a decrease in the percentage of inkjet hardware and an increase in laser supplies, partially offset by a decrease in hardware margins in both inkjet and lasers. Gross profit in 2006 also included $42.1 million (or a 0.8 percentage point impact) of restructuring related charges, primarily relating to accelerated depreciation, and project costs. See Restructuring related Charges, Project Costs and Other that follows for further discussion. During 2006 and 2007, the Company continued efforts begun in 2002 to execute supplier managed inventory (SMI) agreements with its primary suppliers to improve the efficiency of the supply chain. In instances where a non cancelable commitment is made to purchase product at a cost greater than the expected sales price, the Companys accounting policy is to recognize a liability and related expense for future losses. Management believes these SMI agreements improve Lexmarks supply chain inventory pipeline and supply chain flexibility which enhances responsiveness to our customers. In addition, management believes these agreements improve supplier visibility to product demand and therefore improve suppliers timeliness and management of their inventory pipelines. During 2005, several products transitioned to SMI agreements that were not previously under such agreements. The pre tax benefit in 2005 to the Company of this transition was approximately $49 million which was reflected as lower adverse purchase commitment charges. As of December 31, 2005, the significant majority of major printer suppliers were under new SMI agreements. There was no measurable benefit of products transitioning to SMI agreements in 2006 and 2007. As of December 31, 2007, a significant majority of printers were purchased under SMI agreements. Any impact on future operations would depend upon factors such as the Companys ability to negotiate new SMI agreements and future market pricing and product costs. Operating Expense The following table presents information regarding the Companys operating expenses during the periods indicated: 2007 2006 2005 (Dollars in Millions) Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Research and development $ 403.8 8.1 % $ 370.5 7.3 % $ 336.4 6.4 % Selling, general administrative 812.8 16.4 % 761.8 14.9 % 755.1 14.5 % Restructuring and other, net 25.7 0.5 % 71.2 1.4 % 10.4 0.2 % Total operating expense $ 1,242.3 25.0 % $ 1,203.5 23.6 % $ 1,101.9 21.1 % 37 Research and development increased in 2007 and 2006 compared to the prior year due to the Companys continued investment to support product and solution development. These continuing investments have led to new products and solutions aimed at targeted growth segments. Selling, general and administrative (SGA) expenses in 2007 increased YTY as the Company continued to increase spending on marketing and sales activities. During 2007, demand generation activities, which include the brand development marketing campaign launched in late 2006, increased YTY. The initiative includes a television advertising campaign along with radio and print advertising in targeted geographic and market segments. Additionally, SGA expenses in 2007 included $9.3 million of project costs (net of a $3.5 million pre tax gain on the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility). SGA expenses in 2006 included $11.9 million of project costs related to the 2006 actions. See Restructuring related Charges, Project Costs and Other that follows for further discussion. SGA expenses in 2007 and 2006 also included $31.7 million and $30.3 million of stock based compensation expense due to the Companys adoption of SFAS 123R. Restructuring and other, net, in 2007 included $25.7 million of restructuring related charges in connection with the 2007 Restructuring Plan. Restructuring and other, net, in 2006 included $81.1 million of restructuring related charges for the 2006 restructuring plan partially offset by a $9.9 million pension curtailment gain. In 2005, the Company incurred $10.4 million of one time termination benefit charges related to the 2005 workforce reduction. See Restructuring related Charges, Project Costs and Other that follows for further discussion. Operating Income (Loss) The following table provides operating income by market segment: (Dollars in Millions) 2007 2006 Change 2006 2005 Change Business $ 612.0 $ 600.1 2% $ 600.1 $ 661.0 (9 )% % of segment revenue 20.4% 20.9% (0.5 )pts 20.9% 23.8% (2.9 )pts Consumer 93.4 246.0 (62 )% $ 246.0 232.1 6 % % of segment revenue 4.7% 11.0% (6.3 )pts 11.0% 9.5% 1.5 pts All other (384.1 ) (403.6 ) 5% $ (403.6 ) (359.4 ) (12 )% Total operating income (loss) $ 321.3 $ 442.5 (27 )% $ 442.5 $ 533.7 (17 )% % of total revenue 6.5% 8.7% (2.2 )pts 8.7% 10.2% (1.5 )pts For the year ended December 31, 2007, the decrease in consolidated operating income was due to decreased gross profits and higher operating expenses partially offset by a reduction in restructuring related charges and project costs YTY as discussed above. Operating income for the Business segment increased YTY as higher gross profits, reflecting increased supplies revenue, were partially offset by higher operating expense, reflecting higher marketing and sales and product development investments. Operating income for the Consumer segment decreased YTY due to lower supplies revenue, lower product margins and increased operating expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the decrease in consolidated operating income was due to increased operating expenses partially offset by increased gross profits. Operating income for the Business segment decreased due to lower gross profits, the impact of restructuring related charges and project costs and the increased investment in research and development. Operating income for the Consumer segment increased due to increased gross profits partially offset by the impact of restructuring related charges and project costs. During 2007, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs of $12.1 million in its Business segment, $12.2 million in its Consumer segment and $27.7 million in All other. During 2006, the Company incurred restructuring related charges and project costs of $35.9 million in its Business segment, $57.2 million in its Consumer segment and $42.0 million in All other. All other operating income in 2006 also included a $9.9 million pension curtailment gain. During 2005, the Company 38 incurred one time termination benefit charges of $10.4 million related to a workforce reduction plan. For the $10.4 million of one time termination benefit charges, the Company recorded $6.5 million in its Business segment, $2.6 million in its Consumer segment and $1.3 million in All other. See Restructuring related Charges, Project Costs and Other that follows for further discussion. Interest and Other The following table provides interest and other information: (Dollars in Millions) 2007 2006 2005 Interest (income) expense, net $ (21.2 ) $ (22.1 ) $ (26.5 ) Other expense (income), net (7.0 ) 5.3 6.5 Total interest and other (income) expense, net $ (28.2 ) $ (16.8 ) $ (20.0 ) Total interest and other (income) expense, net, was income of $28 million in 2007 compared to income of $17 million in 2006. During 2007, the Company substantially liquidated the remaining operations of its Scotland entity and recognized an $8.1 million pre tax gain from the realization of the entitys accumulated foreign currency translation adjustment generated on the investment in the entity during its operating life. Total interest and other (income) expense, net, was income of $17 million in 2006 compared to income of $20 million in 2005. This decrease was primarily due to lower interest income in 2006 compared to the prior year as a result of a decreased level of cash and marketable securities held by the Company during the year partially offset by higher interest rates in 2006 compared to 2005. Provision for Income Taxes and Related Matters The Companys effective income tax rate was approximately 13.9%, 26.3% and 35.6% in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 12.4 percentage point reduction YTY of the effective tax rate was primarily due to a geographic shift of earnings (6.9 percentage points) as well as reversals and adjustments of previously accrued taxes (5.4 percentage points). During 2007, the Company reversed $18.4 million of previously accrued taxes mostly due to the settlement of a tax audit outside the U.S. and recorded $11.2 million of adjustments to previously recorded tax amounts. Specific to the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recorded adjustments of $6.4 million to previously recorded tax amounts. The impact of these adjustments was insignificant to prior periods. The 2006 effective income tax rate included a $14.3 million benefit from the reversal of previously accrued taxes related to the finalization of certain tax audits and the expiration of various domestic and foreign statutes of limitation. The 2005 effective income tax rate was impacted by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the AJCA) signed by the President of the U.S. on October 22, 2004. The AJCA created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. On April 28, 2005, the Companys board of directors approved a Domestic Reinvestment Plan (DRP) under the AJCA. Pursuant to the DRP, the Company repatriated $684 million for which it will claim the 85 percent dividends received deduction provided by the AJCA. The Companys 2005 income tax provision included $51.9 million to cover the Federal, State, and foreign income taxes the Company has estimated it would owe in connection with its repatriation of the $684 million. During 2006, the Company was subject to a tax holiday in Switzerland with respect to the earnings of one of the Companys wholly owned Swiss subsidiaries. The holiday expired at the end of 2006. The benefit derived from the tax holiday was $1.6 million in 2006 and $11.5 million in 2005. 39 Net Earnings Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007, decreased 11% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. Net earnings in 2007 included $30.8 million of pre tax restructuring related charges in connection with the 2007 Restructuring Plan. Additionally, during 2007, the Company incurred incremental charges related to the execution of its 2007 Restructuring Plan and its 2006 actions (collectively referred to as project costs). Net earnings in 2007 included $21.2 million (net of a $3.5 million pre tax gain on the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility) of these pre tax project costs. See Restructuring related Charges, Project Costs and Other that follows for further discussion. Net earnings in 2007 also included an $8.1 million pre tax foreign exchange gain realized upon the substantial liquidation of the Companys Scotland entity, an $18 million tax benefit primarily related to the settlement of a tax audit outside the U.S. and an $11 million tax benefit resulting from adjustments to previously recorded taxes. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2006, decreased 5% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. Net earnings in 2006 included $135.1 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs, a $9.9 million pre tax pension curtailment gain and a $14.3 million income tax benefit from the reversal of previously accrued taxes related to the finalization of certain tax audits and the expiration of various domestic and foreign statutes of limitation. Net earnings in 2005 included increased income tax expense of $51.9 million resulting from the repatriation of foreign dividends during 2005 and $10.4 million of one time pre tax termination benefit charges related to a 2005 workforce reduction plan. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company incurred pre tax stock based compensation expense under SFAS 123R of $41.3 million and $43.2 million, respectively. The Company recorded pre tax compensation expense of $2.9 million in 2005 related to its stock incentive plans prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R. Earnings per Share The following table summarizes basic and diluted net earnings per share: 2007 2006 2005 Net earnings per share: Basic $ 3.16 $ 3.29 $ 2.94 Diluted 3.14 3.27 2.91 For the year ended December 31, 2007, the decreases in basic and diluted net earnings per share YTY were attributable to decreased earnings partially offset by the decreases in the average number of shares outstanding, primarily due to the Companys stock repurchases. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the increases over the prior year in basic and diluted net earnings per share were primarily attributable to the decrease in the average number of shares outstanding, primarily due to the Companys stock repurchases. 40 RESTRUCTURING RELATED CHARGES, PROJECT COSTS AND OTHER Summary of Restructuring Impacts to 2007 Financial Results The Company had two restructuring plans (and related projects) that impacted 2007 financial results that are discussed in detail further below. The following table summarizes the 2007 financial impacts of the Companys restructuring plans (and related projects): Restructuring related 2007 2006 Charges (Note 3) Project Costs Project Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 5.1 $ 0.8 $ 11.1 $ 17.0 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 25.7 2.6 6.7 35.0 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 30.8 $ 3.4 $ 17.8 $ 52.0 The $17 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs are included in Cost of revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The $26 million of employee termination benefit charges are included in Restructuring and other, net while the $9 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 2007 Restructuring As part of its ongoing efforts to optimize its cost and expense structure, the Company continually reviews its resources in light of a variety of factors. On October 23, 2007, the Company announced a plan (the 2007 Restructuring Plan) which includes: Closure of one of the Companys inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Mexico and additional optimization measures at the remaining inkjet facilities in Mexico and the Philippines. Reduction of the Companys business support cost and expense structure by further consolidating activity globally and expanding the use of shared service centers in lower cost regions. The areas impacted are supply chain, service delivery, general and administrative expense, as well as marketing and sales support functions. Focusing consumer segment marketing and sales efforts into countries or geographic regions that have the highest supplies usage. The 2007 Restructuring Plan is expected to impact approximately 1,650 positions by the end of 2008. Most of the impacted positions are being moved to lower cost countries. The Company expects the 2007 Restructuring Plan will result in pre tax charges of approximately $55 million, of which $40 million will require cash. The Company expects the 2007 Restructuring Plan to be substantially completed by the end of 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred $30.8 million for the 2007 Restructuring Plan as follows: Accelerated depreciation charges $ 5.1 Employee termination benefit charges 25.7 Total restructuring related charges $ 30.8 The accelerated depreciation charges were determined in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. The accelerated depreciation charges are included in Cost of revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Employee termination benefit charges were accrued in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits and SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit 41 or Disposal Activities, as appropriate. Employee termination benefit charges include severance, medical and other benefits and are included in Restructuring and other, net on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The following table presents a rollforward of the liability incurred for employee termination benefits in connection with the 2007 Restructuring Plan. The liability is included in Accrued liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Employee Termination Benefits Balance at January 1, 2007 $ Costs incurred 25.7 Payments other(1) (4.6 ) Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 21.1 (1) Other consists of pension related items that will be settled through the Companys pension plans. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred restructuring related charges of $6.5 million in its Business segment, $13.9 million in its Consumer segment and $10.4 million in All other. The Company expects to incur charges related to the 2007 Restructuring Plan of approximately $14 million in its Business segment, approximately $19 million in its Consumer segment and approximately $22 million in All other. The Company also incurred and expects to continue to incur additional charges related to the execution of its 2007 Restructuring Plan (referred to as 2007 project costs). These 2007 project costs are incremental to the Companys normal operating charges and are expensed as incurred. The 2007 project costs include such items as compensation costs for overlap staffing, travel expenses, consulting costs and training costs. The Company expects to incur total pre tax 2007 project costs of approximately $35 million resulting in a total of $90 million of expected pre tax restructuring related charges and 2007 project costs in connection with the 2007 Restructuring Plan. Expected cash payments for the restructuring related charges and 2007 project costs are approximately $75 million. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred charges, including 2007 project costs, of $34.2 million for the 2007 Restructuring Plan as follows: Restructuring related 2007 Charges (Note 3) Project Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 5.1 $ 0.8 $ 5.9 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 25.7 2.6 28.3 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 30.8 $ 3.4 $ 34.2 For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred restructuring related charges and 2007 project costs of $6.4 million in its Business segment, $14.9 million in its Consumer segment and $12.9 million in All other. The Company expects to incur total restructuring related charges and 2007 project costs of $24 million in its Business segment, $29 million in its Consumer segment and $37 million in All other. Of the total pre tax restructuring related charges and 2007 project costs of approximately $90 million, approximately $15 million will impact cost of revenue and $75 million will impact operating expense. The 2007 Restructuring Plan (including related projects) is expected to save approximately $40 million in 2008 with approximately 50% benefiting cost of revenue and 50% benefiting operating expense. Annual savings beginning in 2009 are expected to approximate $60 million. The Company expects to incur the additional $56 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and 2007 project costs during 2008 with approximately $18 million expected in the first quarter of 2008. 42 2006 Restructuring During the first quarter of 2006, the Company approved a plan to restructure its workforce, consolidate some manufacturing capacity and make certain changes to its U.S. retirement plans (collectively referred to as the 2006 actions). The workforce restructuring eliminated or transferred over 1,400 positions from various business functions and job classes, with over 850 positions being eliminated, and over 550 positions being transferred from various locations primarily to low cost countries. Lexmark consolidated its manufacturing capacity to reduce manufacturing costs, including the closure of its Rosyth, Scotland inkjet cartridge manufacturing facility and Orleans, France laser toner facilities, and reduced its operating expenses, particularly in the areas of supply chain, general and administrative and marketing and sales support. Lexmark also froze pension benefits in its defined benefit pension plan for U.S. employees, effective April 3, 2006, and at the same time changed from a maximum Company matching contribution of three percent of eligible compensation to an automatic Company contribution of one percent and a maximum Company matching contribution of five percent to Lexmarks existing 401(k) plan. Except for approximately 100 positions that were eliminated in 2007, activities related to the 2006 actions were substantially completed at the end of 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company incurred pre tax charges of $121.1 million related to the 2006 actions which were partially offset by a $9.9 million pension curtailment gain. Of the $111.2 million of net pre tax charges incurred, $40.0 million is included in Cost of revenue and $71.2 million in Restructuring and other, net on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges of $35.2 million in its Business segment, $54.7 million in its Consumer segment and $31.2 million in All other. All other operating income also included the $9.9 million pension curtailment gain. The following table presents a rollforward of the liability incurred for employee termination benefit and contract termination and lease charges in connection with the 2006 actions. The liability is included in Accrued liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Employee Termination Contract Benefit Termination Charges Lease Charges Total Balance at January 1, 2006 $ $ $ Costs incurred 75.9 5.2 81.1 Payments (46.2 ) (0.4 ) (46.6 ) Other (1) (4.4 ) (4.4 ) Balance at December 31, 2006 25.3 4.8 30.1 Payments other (2) (14.0 ) (1.7 ) (15.7 ) Reversals (0.9 ) (1.7 ) (2.6 ) Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 10.4 $ 1.4 $ 11.8 (1) Other consists primarily of special termination benefits that are paid out of the U.S. pension plan. (2) Other consists of additions due to positions being eliminated in 2007 and changes in the liability balance due to foreign currency translations. During 2006 and 2007, the Company also incurred additional charges related to the execution of the Companys 2006 actions (referred to as 2006 project costs). These 2006 project costs were incremental to the Companys normal operating charges and were expensed as incurred. The 2006 project costs included such items as compensation costs for overlap staffing, travel expenses, consulting costs and training costs. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company incurred net pre tax charges and 2006 project costs of $125.2 million related to the 2006 actions. Of the $125.2 million of pre tax charges and 2006 project costs incurred, $42.1 million is included in Cost of revenue, $11.9 million in Selling, general and administrative and $71.2 million in Restructuring and other, net on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company incurred total pre tax 43 restructuring related charges and 2006 project costs of $35.9 million in its Business segment, $57.2 million in its Consumer segment and $42.0 million in All other. All other operating income also included the $9.9 million pension curtailment gain. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred additional 2006 project costs of $17.8 million related to the completion of the 2006 actions. Of the $17.8 million of 2006 project costs incurred, $11.1 million is included in Cost of revenue and $6.7 million in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred total pre tax 2006 project costs of $5.7 million in its Business segment and $14.8 million in All other while the Consumer segment realized a $2.7 million net benefit after the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility discussed further below. The Company does not expect to incur any additional 2006 project costs during 2008. During the first quarter of 2007, the Company sold its Rosyth, Scotland facility for $8.1 million and recognized a $3.5 million pre tax gain on the sale. During the second quarter of 2007, the Company substantially liquidated the remaining operations of its Scotland entity and recognized an $8.1 million pre tax gain from the realization of the entitys accumulated foreign currency translation adjustment generated on the investment in the entity during its operating life. This gain is included in Other (income) expense, net on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 2005 Workforce Reduction In order to optimize the Companys expense structure, the Company approved a plan during the third quarter of 2005 that would reduce its workforce by approximately 275 employees worldwide from various business functions and job classes. The separation of the affected employees was completed by December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, the Company incurred one time termination benefit charges of $10.4 million related to the plan that is included in Restructuring and other, net on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the $10.4 million of one time termination benefit charges, the Company recorded $6.5 million in its Business segment, $2.6 million in its Consumer segment and $1.3 million in All other. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT PLANS The following table provides the total pre tax cost related to Lexmarks retirement plans for the years 2007, 2006 and 2005. Cost amounts are included as an addition to the Companys cost and expense amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. (Dollars in Millions) 2007 2006 2005 Total cost of pension and other postretirement plans $ 40.2 $ 34.4 $ 43.8 Comprised of: Defined benefit pension plans $ 13.2 $ 12.5 $ 26.1 Defined contribution plans 25.8 20.5 13.6 Other postretirement plans 1.2 1.4 4.1 The decrease in the cost of defined benefit pension plans in 2006 was primarily due to the $9.9 million one time curtailment gain from the freezing of benefit accruals in the U.S. The increases in the cost of defined contribution plans in 2007 and 2006 were primarily due to the enhancement of benefits in the U.S. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. The decrease in the cost of other postretirement plans in 2006 was primarily due to plan design changes. Changes in actuarial assumptions did not have a significant impact on the Companys results of operations in 2006 and 2007, nor are they expected to have a material effect in 2008. Future effects of retirement related benefits on the operating results of the Company depend on economic conditions, employee 44 demographics, mortality rates and investment performance. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement plans. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act) was enacted on August 17, 2006. Most of its provisions will become effective in 2008. The Act significantly changes the funding requirements for single employer defined benefit pension plans. The funding requirements will now largely be based on a plans calculated funded status, with faster amortization of any shortfalls or surpluses. The Act directs the U.S. Treasury Department to develop a new yield curve to discount pension obligations for determining the funded status of a plan when calculating the funding requirements. The provisions of the Act are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Financial Position Lexmarks financial position remains strong at December 31, 2007, with working capital of $570 million compared to $506 million at December 31, 2006. The increase in working capital accounts was primarily due to the $245 million increase in Cash and cash equivalents and Marketable securities offset partially by the reclassification of $150 million of senior notes maturing in May 2008 from Long term debt to Current portion of long term debt in the second quarter of 2007. The Company had no amounts outstanding under its U.S. trade receivables financing program or its revolving credit facility at December 31, 2007, or December 31, 2006. The Company had no other short term borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2007, or December 31, 2006. The debt to total capital ratio was 10% at December 31, 2007, compared to 13% at December 31, 2006. Liquidity The following table summarizes the results of the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years indicated: (Dollars in Millions) 2007 2006 2005 Net cash flows provided by (used for): Operating activities $ 564.2 $ 670.9 $ 576.4 Investing activities (287.4 ) 112.7 4.9 Financing activities (147.0 ) (808.7 ) (1,036.9 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 2.6 1.4 (2.3 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 132.4 $ (23.7 ) $ (457.9 ) The Companys primary source of liquidity has been cash generated by operations, which totaled $564 million, $671 million and $576 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Cash from operations generally has been sufficient to allow the Company to fund its working capital needs and finance its capital expenditures during these periods along with the repurchase of approximately $0.2 billion, $0.9 billion and $1.1 billion of its Class A Common Stock during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Management believes that cash provided by operations will continue to be sufficient to meet operating and capital needs in the foreseeable future. However, in the event that cash from operations is not sufficient, the Company has other potential sources of cash through utilization of its accounts receivable financing program, revolving credit facility or other financing sources. Operating activities The decrease in cash flows from operating activities from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from lower net earnings as well as unfavorable changes of $69 million in Accrued liabilities and $61 million in Trade Receivables. The change noted in Accrued liabilities was primarily due to unfavorable changes in accrued salaries and incentive compensation of $49 million and restructuring related accruals of $27 million 45 compared to the prior year. The impact of accrued salaries and incentive compensation was driven by the payment of 2006 bonuses in the first quarter of 2007. Bonuses earned in 2006 were considerably higher than those earned in 2005 and 2007. Payments for such programs generally occur in the first quarter of the subsequent year. The impact of restructuring related accruals was driven by the relatively small movement in the liability in 2007 compared to that of 2006, resulting in a lower non cash addition to net earnings when deriving cash flows from operations. In 2007, there were approximately $26 million of accruals offset by $23 million of payments and other adjustments, resulting in a non cash addition to net earnings of only $3 million related to the Companys 2006 and 2007 restructuring actions. In 2006, there were approximately $81 million of accruals offset partially by $51 million of payments and other adjustments, resulting in a non cash addition to net earnings of $30 million related to the Companys 2006 restructuring actions. The $61 million change noted in Trade Receivables is primarily the result of greater collections in the year 2006 versus 2007, the majority of which occurred in the first quarter. A significantly higher trade receivables balance existed at December 31, 2005 versus December 31, 2006 due to a larger portion of the fourth quarter sales for 2005 occurring in the later part of the quarter. The increase in cash flows from operating activities from 2005 to 2006 resulted from favorable changes in Accrued liabilities and Accounts payable partially offset by unfavorable changes in Inventories and various other assets and liabilities accounts. The change noted in Accrued liabilities was primarily due to increases in salary and incentive compensation accruals and related payments of $67 million, favorable changes in derivative liabilities of $42 million and increases in restructuring related accruals of $28 million compared to the prior year. Accounts payable balances can fluctuate significantly between periods due to the timing of payments to suppliers. The unfavorable change in Inventories was primarily due to the growth in supplies inventory. The change noted in the Other assets and liabilities line item in 2006 on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows was primarily attributable to changes in various income tax related accounts from 2005. The Companys days of sales outstanding were 40 days at December 31, 2007, compared to 38 days at December 31, 2006 and 43 days at December 31, 2005. The days of sales outstanding are calculated using the quarter end trade receivables, net of allowances, and the average daily revenue for the quarter. The Companys days of inventory were 48 days at December 31, 2007, compared to 44 days at December 31, 2006 and 38 days at December 31, 2005. The days of inventory is calculated using the quarter end net inventories balance and the average daily cost of revenue for the quarter. In connection with the 2007 restructuring, the remaining accrued liability balance at December 31, 2007, of $21.1 million, is expected to be paid out primarily over 2008 and 2009. These payments will relate mainly to employee termination benefits. In connection with the 2006 restructuring, the remaining accrued liability balance at December 31, 2007 was $11.8 million. It is expected that the majority of this liability, which consists of employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges, will be paid by the end of 2008. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had accrued approximately $117 million for pending copyright fee issues, including litigation proceedings, local legislative initiatives and or negotiations with the parties involved. These accruals are included in Accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Investing activities The Company decreased its marketable securities investments in 2005 by $220 million and by $315 million in 2006 due to its share repurchase program activity. In 2007, the Company increased its investment in marketable securities by $113 million. Refer to the section, Stock Repurchase, which follows for further discussion of the Companys stock repurchase program during 2007. The fluctuations in the net cash flows (used for) provided by investing activities for the years provided were principally due to the Companys marketable securities investing activities. 46 At December 31, 2007, the Companys marketable securities portfolio consisted of asset backed and mortgage backed securities, corporate debt securities, municipal debt securities, U.S. government and agency debt securities, and preferred securities, including approximately $79 million of auction rate securities. The Companys marketable securities were reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in the Accumulated other comprehensive earnings (loss) section of stockholders equity, net of tax. As of December 31, 2007 the Company had gross unrealized gains and gross unrealized losses of $1.5 million and $1.5 million, respectively. Based upon several factors including events that may affect the creditworthiness of a securitys issuer, the length of time the security has been in a loss position, and the Companys ability and intent to hold the security until a forecasted recovery of fair value, the Company assessed its loss positions as temporary impairments. Substantially all of the unrealized losses and gains as of December 31, 2007, have been in a gain/loss position for less than 12 months. The Company spent $183 million, $200 million and $201 million on capital expenditures during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The capital expenditures in 2007 were related to new product development, infrastructure support and manufacturing capacity expansion. During the first quarter of 2007, the Company sold its Rosyth, Scotland facility for $8.1 million and recognized a $3.5 million pre tax gain on the sale. Financing activities The fluctuations in the net cash flows used for financing activities were principally due to the Companys share repurchase activity. The Company repurchased $0.2 billion, $0.9 billion and $1.1 billion of treasury stock during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Credit Facility Effective January 20, 2005, Lexmark entered into a $300 million 5 year senior, unsecured, multi currency revolving credit facility with a group of banks. Under the credit facility, the Company may borrow in dollars, euros, British pounds sterling and Japanese yen. Under certain circumstances, the aggregate amount available under the facility may be increased to a maximum of $500 million. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. Lexmarks credit agreement contains usual and customary default provisions, leverage and interest coverage restrictions and certain restrictions on secured and subsidiary debt, disposition of assets, liens and mergers and acquisitions. The $300 million credit facility has a maturity date of January 20, 2010. Interest on all borrowings under the facility depends upon the type of loan, namely alternative base rate loans, swingline loans or eurocurrency loans. Alternative base rate loans bear interest at the greater of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus one half of one percent. Swingline loans (limited to $50 million) bear interest at an agreed upon rate at the time of the borrowing. Eurocurrency loans bear interest at the sum of (i) a LIBOR for the applicable currency and interest period and (ii) an interest rate spread based upon the Companys debt ratings ranging from 0.18% to 0.80%. In addition, Lexmark is required to pay a facility fee on the $300 million line of credit of 0.07% to 0.20% based upon the Companys debt ratings. The interest and facility fees are payable at least quarterly. Senior Notes Long term Debt and Current Portion of Long term Debt Lexmark has outstanding $150.0 million principal amount of 6.75% senior notes due May 15, 2008, which was initially priced at 98.998%, to yield 6.89% to maturity. A balance of $149.9 million (net of the unamortized discount of $0.1 million) was outstanding at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2006, the balance was $149.8 million (net of the unamortized discount of $0.2 million). As the notes mature in May 2008, the senior notes were reclassified from Long term debt to Current portion of long term debt during 2007. 47 The senior notes contain typical restrictions on liens, sale leaseback transactions, mergers and sales of assets. There are no sinking fund requirements on the senior notes and they may be redeemed at any time at the option of the Company, at a redemption price as described in the related indenture agreement, as supplemented and amended, in whole or in part. During October 2003, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts to convert its $150.0 million principal amount of 6.75% senior notes from a fixed interest rate to a variable interest rate. Interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150.0 million were executed whereby the Company will receive interest at a fixed rate of 6.75% and pay interest at a variable rate of approximately 2.76% above the six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). These interest rate swaps have a maturity date of May 15, 2008, which is equivalent to the maturity date of the senior notes. Other Information The Company is in compliance with all covenants and other requirements set forth in its debt agreements. The Company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of its revolving credit facility and public debt. However, a downgrade in the Companys credit rating could adversely affect the Companys ability to renew existing, or obtain access to new, credit facilities in the future and could increase the cost of such facilities. The Companys current credit ratings are Baa1 and BBB, as evaluated by Moodys Investors Service and Standard Poors Ratings Services, respectively. Contractual Cash Obligations The following table summarizes the Companys contractual obligations at December 31, 2007: Less than 1 3 3 5 More than (Dollars in Millions) Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Current portion of long term debt(1) $ 155 $ 155 $ $ $ Capital leases 2 1 1 Operating leases 115 38 46 23 8 Purchase obligations 145 145 Uncertain tax positions 46 16 30 Other long term liabilities(2) 24 4 4 16 Total contractual obligations $ 487 $ 359 $ 81 $ 23 $ 24 (1) includes final interest payment of $5 million (2) includes current portion of other long term liabilities Purchase obligations reported in the table above include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The Companys funding policy for its pension plans is to fund minimum amounts according to the regulatory requirements under which the plans operate. From time to time, the Company may choose to fund amounts in excess of the minimum for various reasons. The annual funding of pension obligations are not expected to be material and are not shown above. The Companys financial obligation to collect, recycle, treat and dispose of the printing devices it produces, and in some instances, historical waste equipment it holds, is not shown above due to the lack of historical data necessary to project future dates of payment. At December 31, 2007, the Companys estimated liability for this obligation was a current liability of $1 million and a long term liability of $27 million. These amounts were included in Accrued liabilities and Other liabilities, respectively, on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Refer to the Risk Factors section in Part I, Item 1A of this report for additional information regarding the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive adopted by the European Union. 48 Trade Receivables Facility In the U.S., the Company transfers a majority of its receivables to its wholly owned subsidiary, Lexmark Receivables Corporation (LRC), which then may transfer the receivables on a limited recourse basis to an unrelated third party. In October 2004, the Company entered into an amended and restated agreement to sell a portion of its trade receivables on a limited recourse basis. The amended agreement allows for a maximum capital availability of $200 million under this facility. The primary purpose of the amendment was to extend the term of the facility to October 16, 2007, with required annual renewal of commitments. During the first quarter of 2007, the Company amended the facility to allow LRC to repurchase receivables previously transferred to the unrelated third party. Prior to the 2007 amendment, the Company accounted for the transfer of receivables from LRC to the unrelated third party as sales of receivables. As a result of the 2007 amendment, the Company accounts for the transfers of receivables from LRC to the unrelated third party as a secured borrowing with a pledge of its receivables as collateral. The amendment became effective in the second quarter of 2007. In October 2007, the facility was renewed until October 3, 2008. This facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants as well as specific provisions related to the quality of the accounts receivables transferred. As collections reduce previously transferred receivables, the Company may replenish these with new receivables. Lexmark bears a limited risk of bad debt losses on the trade receivables transferred, since the Company over collateralizes the receivables transferred with additional eligible receivables. Lexmark addresses this risk of loss in its allowance for doubtful accounts. Receivables transferred to the unrelated third party may not include amounts over 90 days past due or concentrations over certain limits with any one customer. The facility also contains customary cash control triggering events which, if triggered, could adversely affect the Companys liquidity and or its ability to transfer trade receivables. A downgrade in the Companys credit rating could reduce the Companys ability to transfer trade receivables. At December 31, 2007, there were no secured borrowings under the facility. At December 31, 2006, there were no trade receivables outstanding under the facility. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Stock Repurchase In January 2006, the Company received authorization from the board of directors to repurchase an additional $1.0 billion of its Class A Common Stock for a total repurchase authority of $3.9 billion. As of December 31, 2007, there was approximately $0.3 billion of share repurchase authority remaining. This repurchase authority allows the Company, at managements discretion, to selectively repurchase its stock from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon market price and other factors. During 2007, the Company repurchased approximately 2.7 million shares at a cost of approximately $0.2 billion. As of December 31, 2007, since the inception of the program in April 1996, the Company had repurchased approximately 74.1 million shares for an aggregate cost of approximately $3.6 billion. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had reissued approximately 0.5 million shares of previously repurchased shares in connection with certain of its employee benefit programs. As a result of these issuances as well as the retirement of 44.0 million and 16.0 million shares of treasury stock in 2005 and 2006, respectively, the net treasury shares outstanding at December 31, 2007, were 13.6 million. In December 2005 and October 2006, the Company received authorization from the board of directors to retire 44.0 million and 16.0 million shares, respectively, of the Companys Class A Common Stock currently held in the Companys treasury as treasury stock. The retired shares resumed the status of authorized but unissued shares of Class A Common Stock. Refer to the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity and Comprehensive Earnings for the effects on Common stock, Capital in excess of par, Retained earnings and Treasury stock from the retirement of the 44.0 million shares of Class A Common Stock in 2005 and 16.0 million shares of Class A Common Stock in 2006. 49 CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Capital expenditures totaled $183 million, $200 million and $201 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The capital expenditures in 2007 were attributable to new product development, infrastructure support and manufacturing capacity expansion. During 2008, the Company expects capital expenditures to be approximately $225 million, primarily attributable to new product development, infrastructure support and manufacturing capacity expansion. The capital expenditures are expected to be funded through cash from operations. EFFECT OF CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT Revenue derived from international sales, including exports from the U.S., accounts for approximately 57% of the Companys consolidated revenue, with Europe accounting for approximately two thirds of international sales. Substantially all foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their local currencies. Consequently, period to period comparability of results of operations is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Certain of the Companys Latin American and European entities use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. Currency exchange rates had a material favorable impact on international revenue in 2007. In 2006 and 2005, currency exchange rates did not have a material impact on international revenue. The Company acts to neutralize the effects of exchange rate fluctuations through the use of operational hedges, such as pricing actions and product sourcing decisions. The Companys exposure to exchange rate fluctuations generally cannot be minimized solely through the use of operational hedges. Therefore, the Company utilizes financial instruments, from time to time, such as forward exchange contracts and currency options to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on actual and anticipated cash flow exposures and certain assets and liabilities, which arise from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The Company does not purchase currency related financial instruments for purposes other than exchange rate risk management. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements which is incorporated herein by reference. INFLATION The Company is subject to the effects of changing prices and operates in an industry where product prices are very competitive and subject to downward price pressures. As a result, future increases in production costs or raw material prices could have an adverse effect on the Companys business. In an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of any such increases, the Company must continually manage its product costs and manufacturing processes. 50 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY The market risk inherent in the Companys financial instruments and positions represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rates At December 31, 2007, the fair value of the Companys senior notes was estimated at $150 million using quoted market prices and yields obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of borrowing arrangements, taking into consideration the underlying terms of the debt. The fair value of the senior notes exceeded the carrying value as recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2007, by approximately $0.4 million. Market risk is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and amounts to approximately $0.3 million at December 31, 2007. The Company has interest rate swaps that serve as a fair value hedge of the Companys senior notes. The fair value of the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2007, was an asset of $0.1 million. Market risk for the interest rate swaps is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and amounts to approximately $0.3 million at December 31, 2007. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates The Company has employed, from time to time, a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the Companys functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the Euro, the Mexican peso, the British pound, the Philippine peso, the Australian dollar and other Asian and South American currencies. Exposures may be hedged with foreign currency forward contracts, put options, and call options generally with maturity dates of twelve months or less. The potential loss in fair value at December 31, 2007, for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $24 million. This loss would be mitigated by corresponding gains on the underlying exposures. 51 
 
