Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto presented under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K. OVERVIEW Products and Segments Lexmark makes it easier for customers to move information between the digital and paper worlds. Since its inception in 1991, Lexmark has become a leading developer, manufacturer and supplier of printing and imaging solutions for the office. Lexmarks products include laser printers, inkjet printers, multifunction devices, and associated supplies, services and solutions. Lexmark also sells dot matrix printers for printing single and multi part forms by business users. The Company is primarily managed along divisional lines: the Printing Solutions and Services Division (formerly known as the Business market) and the Imaging Solutions Division (formerly known as the Consumer market). The Printing Solutions and Services Division primarily sells laser products and serves business customers but also include consumers who choose laser products. Laser products can be divided into two major categories shared workgroup products and lower priced desktop products. Lexmark employs large account sales and marketing teams, closely supported by its development and product marketing teams, to generate demand for its business printing solutions and services. The sales and marketing teams primarily focus on industries such as financial services, retail, manufacturing, education, government and health care. Lexmark also markets its laser and inkjet products increasingly through SMB teams who work closely with channel partners. The Company distributes and fulfills its laser products primarily through its well established distributor and reseller network. Lexmarks products are also sold through solution providers, which offer custom solutions to specific markets, and through direct response resellers. The Imaging Solutions Division predominantly sells inkjet products to SOHOs as well as business users who may choose inkjet products as a lower priced alternative or supplement to laser products for personal desktop use, and to customers that prefer AIOs with productivity related features. The Imaging Solutions Division also sells laser products to SOHO and business users that purchase products through retail channels. Additionally, over the past couple of years, the number of customers seeking productivity related features has driven significant growth in AIO products. Key factors promoting this trend are greater affordability of AIOs containing productivity features like wireless connectivity, full fax capabilities, automatic document feeders and duplex capabilities. Lexmark distributes its branded inkjet products and supplies through retail outlets as well as distributors and resellers worldwide. Lexmarks sales and marketing activities are organized to meet the needs of the various geographies and the size of their markets. The Company also sells its products through numerous alliances and OEM arrangements. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Companys reportable segments, which is incorporated herein by reference. Operating Results Summary 2008 In 2008, the weakening of the global economy significantly impacted the Companys revenue. Additionally, Lexmarks inkjet strategy to transition to higher usage customers and products significantly impacted the Companys inkjet unit sales and supplies revenue. The Company sees the potential for continued erosion in end user inkjet supplies demand due to the reduction in inkjet hardware unit sales resulting from the Companys decision to focus on more profitable printer placements and the weakness the Company is 24 experiencing in its OEM business. The Company continues to invest in its core print technologies and product development that is expected to drive a strong pipeline of future Lexmark products. 2007 Beginning in the second quarter of 2007, ISD experienced on going declines in inkjet supplies and OEM unit sales, lower average unit revenues (AURs) and additional costs in its new products. As the Company analyzed the situation, it saw that some of its unit sales were not generating adequate lifetime profitability, some markets and channels were on the low end of the supplies generation distribution curve and its sales were too skewed to the low end versus the market. As a result, the Company decided to more aggressively shift the Companys focus to geographic regions, market segments, and customers that generate higher page usage and minimize the unit sales that do not generate an acceptable profit over their life. Refer to the section entitled RESULTS OF OPERATIONS that follows for a further discussion of the Companys results of operations. Trends and Opportunities Lexmark management believes that the total distributed output opportunity was between $90 and $100 billion in 2008, including hardware, supplies and related software and services. This opportunity includes printers and multifunction devices as well as a declining base of copiers and fax machines that are increasingly being integrated into multifunction devices. Based on industry information, Lexmark management estimates that the market may have declined slightly in 2008 and may decline again in 2009 due to the severe global economic slowdown. When global economic growth resumes, perhaps in 2010, the industry could again experience low to mid single digit annual revenue growth rates with highest growth likely to be in MFPs and related software solutions and services and emerging economies. Market trends driving long term growth include: Continuing improvement in price/performance points; Increased adoption of color and graphics output in business; Advancements in electronic movement of information, driving more pages to be printed by end users when and where it is convenient to do so; Continued convergence in technology between printers, scanners, copiers and fax machines into single, integrated AIO devices; and Advancements in digital photography driving the opportunity to print digital images on distributed output devices. As a result of these market trends, Lexmark has growth opportunities in monochrome laser printers, color lasers, laser MFPs and inkjet AIOs. Industry laser printer unit growth in recent years has generally exceeded the growth rate of laser printer revenue due to unit growth in lower priced desktop color and monochrome laser printers and unit price reductions. Additionally, color and multifunction laser printer units represent a more significant component of laser unit growth. Management believes these trends will continue. Product pricing pressure is partially offset by the tendency of customers in the shared workgroup laser market to add higher profit margin optional features. In the inkjet product market, advances in inkjet technology have resulted in products with higher resolution and improved performance while increased competition has led to lower prices. Also, there is an increasing trend in inkjet products being designed for SOHO and small business. Additionally, over the past couple of years, the number of customers seeking productivity related features has driven significant growth in AIO products. Key factors promoting this trend are greater affordability of AIOs containing productivity features. 25 The Companys management believes these trends will continue. Growth in inkjet hardware revenue on an industry basis in recent years has been lower than unit growth due to price reductions. While profit margins on printers and MFPs have been negatively affected by competitive pricing pressure, supplies sales are higher margin and recurring. In general, as the hardcopy industry matures and printer and copier markets converge, management expects competitive pressures to continue. Lexmarks dot matrix printers include mature products that require little ongoing investment. The Company expects that the market for these products will continue to decline, and has implemented a strategy to continue to offer high quality products while managing cost to maximize cash flow and profit. Challenges and Risks In recent years, Lexmark and its principal competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and or technological resources than the Company, have regularly lowered prices on printers and are expected to continue to do so. Other challenges and risks faced by Lexmark include: In 2008, the weakening of the global economy significantly impacted the Companys revenue and any continuation or worsening of the economic downturn could impact the Companys future operating results. The Company must compete with its larger competitors for retail shelf space allocated to printers and their associated supplies. New product announcements by the Companys principal competitors can have, and in the past, have had, a material adverse effect on the Companys financial results. With the convergence of traditional printer and copier markets, major laser competitors now include traditional copier companies. The Company sees other competitors and the potential for new entrants into the market possibly having an impact on the Companys growth and market share. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant supplies pricing pressure, but if supplies pricing was to come under significant pressure, the Companys financial results could be materially adversely affected. Refill, remanufactured, clones, counterfeits and other compatible alternatives for some of the Companys cartridges are available and compete with the Companys supplies business. As the installed base of laser and inkjet products matures, the Company expects competitive supplies activity to increase. Lexmark expects that as it competes with larger competitors, the Company may attract more frequent challenges, both legal and commercial, including claims of possible intellectual property infringement. Refer to the section entitled Competition in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of major uncertainties faced by the industry and Company. Additionally, refer to the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of factors that could impact the Companys operating results. Strategy and Initiatives Lexmarks strategy is based on a business model of investing in technology to develop and sell printing solutions, including printers and MFPs, with the objective of growing its installed base, which drives 26 recurring supplies sales. Management believes that Lexmark has the following strengths related to this business model: Lexmark is exclusively focused on distributed output and imaging, and related solutions. Lexmark internally develops three of the key print technologies associated with distributed printing, including inkjet, monochrome laser and color laser. Lexmark has leveraged its technological capabilities and its commitment to flexibility and responsiveness to build strong relationships with large account customers and channel partners. Lexmarks strategy involves the following core strategic initiatives: Leverage the Companys unique strengths in PSSD to grow workgroup devices; and Shift the ISD strategy to focus on customers, markets and channels that drive higher page generation and supplies. Over the last several years, the Company increased investments in both the Companys sales force and product and solution development. The Company increased its research and development spending by 5% in 2008, 9% in 2007 and by 10% in 2006. This investment has led to new products and solutions aimed at targeted growth segments, as well as a pipeline of future products. The Companys strategy for dot matrix printers is to continue to offer high quality products while managing cost to maximize cash flow and profit. Refer to the section entitled Strategy in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of the Companys strategies and initiatives. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Lexmarks discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, doubtful accounts, inventories, stock based compensation, income taxes, warranty obligations, copyright fees, restructurings, pension and other postretirement benefits, and contingencies and litigation. Lexmark bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, if different estimates reasonably could have been used, or if changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially impact the financial statements. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Lexmark records estimated reductions to revenue at the time of sale for customer programs and incentive offerings including special pricing agreements, promotions and other volume based incentives. Estimated reductions in revenue are based upon historical trends and other known factors at the time of sale. Lexmark also records estimated reductions to revenue for price protection, which it provides to substantially all of its distributor and reseller customers. The amount of price protection is limited based on the amount of dealers and resellers inventory on hand (including in transit inventory) as of 27 the date of the price change. If market conditions were to decline, Lexmark may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings or reduce prices, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. The Company also records estimated reductions to revenue at the time of sale related to its customers right to return product. Estimated reductions in revenue are based upon historical trends of actual product returns as well as the Companys assessment of its products in the channel. Provisions for specific returns from large customers are also recorded as necessary. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts Lexmark maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The Company estimates the allowance for doubtful accounts based on a variety of factors including the length of time receivables are past due, the financial health of its customers, unusual macroeconomic conditions and historical experience. If the financial condition of its customers deteriorates or other circumstances occur that result in an impairment of customers ability to make payments, the Company records additional allowances as needed. Restructuring Lexmark records a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity at its fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred, except for liabilities for certain employee termination benefit charges that are accrued over time. Employee termination benefits associated with an exit or disposal activity are accrued when the obligation is probable and estimable as a postemployment benefit obligation when local statutory requirements stipulate minimum involuntary termination benefits or, in the absence of local statutory requirements, termination benefits to be provided are similar to benefits provided in prior restructuring activities. Employee termination benefits accrued as probable and estimable often require judgment by the Companys management as to the number of employees being separated and the related salary levels, length of employment with the Company and various other factors related to the separated employees that could affect the amount of employee termination benefits being accrued. Specifically for termination benefits under a one time benefit arrangement, the timing of recognition and related measurement of a liability depends on whether employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and, if so, whether employees will be retained to render service beyond a minimum retention period. For employees who are not required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits or employees who will not provide service beyond the minimum retention period, the Company records a liability for the termination benefits at the communication date. If employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained to render service beyond the minimum retention period, the Company measures the liability for termination benefits at the communication date and recognizes the expense and liability ratably over the future service period. For contract termination costs, Lexmark records a liability for costs to terminate a contract before the end of its term when the Company terminates the agreement in accordance with the contract terms or when the Company ceases using the rights conveyed by the contract. The Company records a liability for other costs associated with an exit or disposal activity in the period in which the liability is incurred. Once Company management approves an exit or disposal activity, the Company closely monitors the expenses that are reported in association with the activity. Warranty Lexmark provides for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. The amounts accrued for product warranties is based on the quantity of units sold under warranty, estimated product failure rates, and material usage and service delivery costs. The estimates for product failure rates and material usage and service delivery costs are periodically adjusted based on actual results. For 28 extended warranty programs, the Company defers revenue in short term and long term liability accounts (based on the extended warranty contractual period) for amounts invoiced to customers for these programs and recognizes the revenue ratably over the contractual period. Costs associated with extended warranty programs are expensed as incurred. To minimize warranty costs, the Company engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ from the Companys estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability may be required. Inventory Reserves and Adverse Purchase Commitments Lexmark writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value. The Company estimates the difference between the cost of obsolete or unmarketable inventory and its market value based upon product demand requirements, product life cycle, product pricing and quality issues. Also, Lexmark records an adverse purchase commitment liability when anticipated market sales prices are lower than committed costs. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs and adverse purchase commitment liabilities may be required. Pension and Other Postretirement Plans The Companys pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various actuarial assumptions used in calculating such amounts. The non U.S. pension plans are not significant and use economic assumptions similar to the U.S. pension plan. Significant assumptions the Company must review and set annually related to its pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are: Expected long term return on plan assets based on long term historical actual asset return information, the mix of investments that comprise plan assets and future estimates of long term investment returns by reference to external sources. Discount rate reflects the rates at which benefits could effectively be settled and is based on current investment yields of high quality fixed income investments. The Company uses a yield curve approach to determine the assumed discount rate in the U.S. based on the timing of the cash flows of the expected future benefit payments. Rate of compensation increase based on the Companys long term plans for such increases. Effective April 2006, this assumption is no longer applicable to the U.S. pension plan due to the benefit accrual freeze in connection with the Companys 2006 restructuring actions. Plan assets are invested in equity securities, government and agency securities, mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, corporate debt, annuity contracts and other securities. The U.S. defined benefit plan comprises a significant portion of the assets and liabilities relating to the defined benefit plans. The investment goal of the U.S. defined benefit plan is to achieve an adequate net investment return in order to provide for future benefit payments to its participants. Starting in December 2008, asset allocation percentage is targeted to be 65% equity and 35% fixed income investments. The U.S. defined benefit plan expects to employ professional investment managers during 2009 to invest in new asset classes, including international developed equity, emerging market equity, high yield bonds and emerging market debt. Prior to December 2008, the target asset allocation percentages were 75% U.S. equity investments and 25% U.S. fixed income investments. Each investment manager operates under an investment management contract that includes specific investment guidelines, requiring among other actions, adequate diversification, prudent use of derivatives and standard risk management practices such as portfolio constraints relating to established benchmarks. The plan currently uses, and intends to use during the asset allocation transition in 2009 noted above, a combination of both active management and passive index funds to achieve its investment goals. 29 Differences between actual and expected asset returns on equity investments are deferred in the year of occurrence and are recognized in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost over the subsequent five years after occurrence. As a result of this deferral process, for the U.S. plan, 2008 pension expense was decreased by $3 million and 2009 pension expense is increased by $5 million. The expected increase in the 2009 pension expense for U.S. plans would have been approximately $23 million had the Company not deferred the differences between actual and expected asset returns on equity investments. Actual results that differ from assumptions that fall outside the 10% corridor, as defined by SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, are accumulated and amortized over the estimated future service period of active plan participants. For 2008, a 25 basis point change in the assumptions for asset return and discount rate would not have had a significant impact on the Companys results of operations. Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (SFAS 158). SFAS 158 requires recognition of the funded status of a benefit plan in the statement of financial position and recognition in other comprehensive earnings of certain gains and losses that arise during the period, but are deferred under pension accounting rules. Income Taxes The Company estimates its tax liability based on current tax laws in the statutory jurisdictions in which it operates. These estimates include judgments about deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes, as well as about the realization of deferred tax assets. If the provisions for current or deferred taxes are not adequate, if the Company is unable to realize certain deferred tax assets or if the tax laws change unfavorably, the Company could potentially experience significant losses in excess of the reserves established. Likewise, if the provisions for current and deferred taxes are in excess of those eventually needed, if the Company is able to realize additional deferred tax assets or if tax laws change favorably, the Company could potentially experience significant gains. In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold as more likely than not that a tax position must meet before being recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting for income taxes in interim periods, financial statement disclosure and transition rules. The evaluation of a tax position in accordance with FIN 48 is a two step process. The first step is recognition: The enterprise determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any litigation. The second step is measurement: A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution. The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 and related guidance on January 1, 2007. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, the Company reduced its liability for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties by $7.3 million, which resulted in a corresponding increase in the Companys January 1, 2007, retained earnings balance. The Company also recorded an increase in its deferred tax assets of $8.5 million and a corresponding increase in its liability for unrecognized tax benefits as a result of adopting FIN 48. Uncertain tax positions at year end 2008 were evaluated using the two step process described in the paragraphs above. 30 Copyright Fees Certain countries (primarily in Europe) and or collecting societies representing copyright owners interests have taken action to impose fees on devices (such as scanners, printers and multifunction devices) alleging the copyright owners are entitled to compensation because these devices enable reproducing copyrighted content. Other countries are also considering imposing fees on certain devices. The amount of fees, if imposed, would depend on the number of products sold and the amounts of the fee on each product, which will vary by product and by country. The Company has accrued amounts that it believes are adequate to address the risks related to the copyright fee issues currently pending. The financial impact on the Company, which will depend in large part upon the outcome of local legislative processes, the Companys and other industry participants outcome in contesting the fees and the Companys ability to mitigate that impact by increasing prices, which ability will depend upon competitive market conditions, remains uncertain. Contingencies and Litigation In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, Lexmark records a provision for a loss contingency when management believes that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes it has adequate provisions for any such matters. Fair Value The Company currently uses recurring fair value measurements in several areas including marketable securities, pension plan assets and derivatives. The Company uses fair value in measuring certain nonrecurring items as well, as instructed under existing authoritative accounting guidance. In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS 157. FAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The standard defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. As part of the framework for measuring fair value, FAS 157 establishes a hierarchy of inputs to valuation techniques used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most observable inputs be used when available. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy under FAS 157 are: Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access at the measurement date; Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and Level 3 Unobservable inputs used in valuations in which there is little market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair value measurements of assets and liabilities are assigned a level within the fair value hierarchy based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157 2 (FSP FAS 157 2) which defers the effective date of FAS 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis. As permitted by FSP FAS 157 2, the Company has only partially applied the provisions of FAS 157 as of December 31, 2008. The Company is in the process of evaluating the inputs and techniques used in its nonrecurring, nonfinancial fair value measurements. In October 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157 3 (FSP FAS 157 3), Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active, in response to the financial 31 communitys concerns about how to conduct fair value accounting in a time of significant market distress. The Company has considered the additional guidance with respect to the valuation of its marketable securities portfolio and the designation of its investments within the fair value hierarchy in the Companys 2008 financial statements and footnotes. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding FAS 157, FSP FAS 157 2 and FSP FAS 157 3. The Company utilizes observable market data, when available, to determine fair value. However, in certain situations, there may be little or no market data available at the measurement date thus requiring the use of significant unobservable inputs. To the extent that a valuation is based on models, inputs or assumptions that are less observable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Such measurements are generally classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. Recent uncertainty in the capital markets has presented additional challenges with respect to valuing marketable securities and pension plan assets in which the Company is invested. Because of the general decline in trading activity for some investments, the Company has undertaken additional steps in its closing process during the third and fourth quarters of 2008 to assess whether or not the pricing information it received was reasonably up to date as well as to understand the nature of quotes used in the valuation of certain securities. In the case of auction rate securities in which auctions were unsuccessful, observable pricing data was not available resulting in the Company performing its own discounted cash flow analysis based on assumptions that it believes market participants would use with regard to such items as expected cash flows and discount rates adjusted for illiquidity premiums. In determining where measurements lie in the fair value hierarchy, the Company uses assumptions regarding the general characteristics of each type of security as the starting point. The Company then downgrades individual securities to a lower level as necessary based on specific facts and circumstances. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Companys disclosures regarding fair value. Also, refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7 for additional information regarding the Companys significant Level 3 valuations. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operations Overview Key Messages Lexmark is focused on driving long term performance by strategically investing in technology and demand generation to enable the Company to profitably capture supplies in high page growth segments of the distributed printing market. The PSSD strategy is focused on growth in high page generating workgroup products, including monochrome lasers, color laser printers and laser MFPs. During 2008, the Company experienced double digit percentage unit growth in its branded laser MFP units and also had growth in laser supplies. The Company continues to aggressively shift its focus in ISD to geographic regions, product segments, and customers that generate higher page usage. This strategy shift continues to increase the Companys focus on higher priced, higher usage devices, customers and countries. The Companys initiative in wireless inkjets is a part of the strategic shift and the Company believes it has captured some significant market share related to these products in its top six countries. Lexmark continues to take actions to improve its cost and expense structure including continuing to implement restructuring activities of its business to lower its cost and better allow it to fund these strategic initiatives. 32 Lexmark continues to maintain a strong financial position with good cash generation and a solid balance sheet, which positions it to prudently invest in the future of the business and successfully compete even during challenging times. 2008 Business Factors PSSD During 2008, Lexmark continued its investments in PSSD through new products and technology. The Company expects these investments to produce a steady stream of new products. Lexmark continued to strengthen its customer value propositions with the introduction of over 40 new laser products in 2008 that significantly strengthened the Companys monochrome laser line, color laser line and laser MFPs. The Company continued its investment in the expansion of managed print services and Lexmark also made investments to improve its coverage and expand the reach of its solutions and services proposition. The focus of all of these PSSD investments is to drive workgroup laser growth and page generation. ISD Lexmark believes it is experiencing shrinkage in its installed base of inkjet products and an associated decline in end user demand for inkjet supplies. The Company sees the potential for continued erosion in end user inkjet supplies demand due to the reduction in inkjet hardware unit sales resulting from the Companys decision to focus on more profitable printer placements and the weakness the Company is experiencing in its OEM business. Additionally, Lexmark expects to see continued declines in OEM unit sales and aggressive pricing and promotion activities in the inkjet market. However, Lexmark did experience a 13% increase in its average unit revenue (AUR) for inkjet products in 2008 that reflects the Companys efforts to move to higher priced, higher usage inkjet devices. Additionally, the Company advanced its inkjet product line in 2008 with the introduction of additional new wireless models and the Companys Professional Series inkjet models. Overall in 2008, the weakening of the global economy significantly impacted the Companys revenue. Additionally, Lexmarks inkjet strategy transition to higher usage customers and products also significantly impacted the Companys inkjet unit sales and supplies revenue. However, the Company continues to invest in its core print technologies and product development that is expected to drive a strong pipeline of future Lexmark products. In response to the global economic weakening and to enhance the efficiency of the Companys inkjet cartridge manufacturing operations, Lexmark announced restructuring actions in January 2009 and July 2008 that affected the Companys operating results in 2008. See Restructuring and Related Charges (Reversals) and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. 2007 Business Factors Beginning in the second quarter of 2007, the Company experienced the following issues in ISD: On going declines in inkjet supplies and OEM unit sales. Lower average unit revenues due to aggressive pricing and promotion. Additional costs in its new products. As the Company analyzed the situation, it saw the following: Some of its unit sales were not generating adequate lifetime profitability due to lower prices, higher costs and supplies usage below its model. Some markets and channels were on the low end of the supplies generation distribution curve. 33 Its sales were too skewed to the low end versus the market, resulting in lower supplies generation per unit. As a result, Lexmark took the following actions: The Company decided to more aggressively shift its focus to geographic regions, market segments and customers that generate higher page usage. The Company worked to minimize the unit sales that did not generate an acceptable profit over their life. Additionally, to improve the Companys cost and expense structure, the Company announced a restructuring plan (the 2007 Restructuring Plan) to reduce its cost and infrastructure, including the closure of one of its inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Mexico and additional optimization measures at the remaining inkjet facilities in Mexico and the Philippines. See Restructuring and Related Charges (Reversals) and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Operating Results Summary The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. The following table summarizes the results of the Companys operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in Millions) Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Revenue $ 4,528 .4 100% $ 4,973 .9 100% $ 5,108 .1 100% Gross profit 1,534 .6 34% 1,563 .6 31% 1,646 .0 32% Operating expense 1,257 .4 28% 1,242 .3 25% 1,203 .5 24% Operating income 277 .2 6% 321 .3 6% 442 .5 9% Net earnings $ 240 .2 5% $ 300 .8 6% $ 338 .4 7% During 2008, total revenue was $4.5 billion or down 9% from 2007. Laser and inkjet supplies revenue decreased 4% year to year (YTY) while laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 20% YTY. In PSSD, revenue decreased 1% YTY while revenue in ISD decreased 22% YTY. During 2007, total revenue was $5.0 billion or down 3% from 2006. Laser and inkjet supplies revenue increased 1% YTY while laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 10% YTY. In PSSD, revenue increased 5% YTY while revenue in ISD decreased 12% YTY. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased 20% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income and lower interest and other income/expense, net, partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. Net earnings in 2008 included $92.7 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the execution of the Companys restructuring plans. The Company uses the term project costs for incremental charges related to the execution of its restructuring plans. See Restructuring and Related Charges (Reversals) and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Net earnings in 2008 also included $11.6 million of non recurring tax benefits. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased 11% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. Net earnings in 2007 included $52.0 million (net of a $3.5 million pre tax gain on the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility) of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs. Net earnings in 2007 also included an $8.1 million pre tax foreign exchange gain realized upon the substantial liquidation of the Companys Scotland entity and $29 million of non recurring tax benefits. 34 Revenue The following tables provide a breakdown of the Companys revenue by product category, hardware unit shipments and market segment: Revenue by product: (Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 % Change 2007 2006 % Change Laser and inkjet printers $ 1,196.8 $ 1,498.3 (20 )% $ 1,498.3 $ 1,663.0 (10 )% Laser and inkjet supplies 3,117.5 3,248.6 (4 )% 3,248.6 3,211.6 1 % Other 214.1 227.0 (6 )% 227.0 233.5 (3 )% Total revenue $ 4,528.4 $ 4,973.9 (9 )% $ 4,973.9 $ 5,108.1 (3 )% Unit shipments: (Units in Millions) 2008 2007 2006 Laser units 1.9 2.1 2.1 Inkjet units 6.6 12.1 14.7 During 2008, laser and inkjet supplies revenue decreased 4% YTY as growth in laser supplies was more than offset by a decline in inkjet supplies. Laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 20% primarily due to declines in laser and inkjet units. During 2007, laser and inkjet supplies revenue increased 1% YTY as good growth in laser supplies was mostly offset by a decline in inkjet supplies. Laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 10% primarily due to a decline in inkjet units. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, one customer, Dell, accounted for $596 million or approximately 13%, $717 million or approximately 14% and $744 million or approximately 15%, of the Companys total revenue, respectively. Sales to Dell are included in both PSSD and ISD. Revenue by division: (Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 % Change 2007 2006 % Change PSSD $ 2,981.6 $ 2,999.2 (1 )% $ 2,999.2 $ 2,869.1 5 % ISD 1,546.8 1,974.7 (22 )% 1,974.7 2,239.0 (12 )% Total revenue $ 4,528.4 $ 4,973.9 (9 )% $ 4,973.9 $ 5,108.1 (3 )% PSSD During 2008, revenue in PSSD decreased $18 million or 1% compared to 2007 due to a 9% decline in laser hardware revenue, partially offset by growth in laser supplies revenue. The lower laser hardware revenue was due to lower unit volume and aggressive pricing, partially offset by a positive currency impact and positive mix of workgroup and MFP devices. Laser hardware unit shipments decreased approximately 7% YTY primarily due to lower OEM units, partially offset by unit growth in laser MFPs. Laser hardware AUR, which reflects the changes in both pricing and mix, decreased approximately 2% YTY due to aggressive pricing, partially offset by a positive currency impact. During 2007, revenue in PSSD increased $130 million or 5% compared to 2006 due to growth in laser supplies revenue partially offset by a 2% decline in laser hardware revenue. Laser hardware unit shipments decreased approximately 3% YTY reflecting strong unit growth in laser MFPs and branded workgroup printers which was more than offset by a decline in low end monochrome lasers. Laser hardware AUR increased approximately 1% YTY due to the positive mix shift. 35 ISD During 2008, revenue in ISD decreased $428 million or 22% compared to 2007 due to decreased inkjet hardware and supplies revenue. Hardware revenue declined 38% YTY due to lower unit shipments. Management believes supplies revenue declined YTY due to shrinkage in the installed base of inkjet products and an associated decline in end user demand for inkjet supplies. Inkjet hardware unit shipments declined 45% YTY principally due to the Companys decision to prioritize certain markets, segments and customers and to reduce or eliminate others. Units were also impacted by the weakening market and some lost retail shelf space. Inkjet hardware AUR increased 13% YTY due to favorable product mix shift, partially offset by a negative impact of pricing. During 2007, revenue in ISD decreased $264 million or 12% compared to 2006 due to decreased inkjet hardware and supplies revenue. Hardware revenue declined 20% YTY due to lower unit shipments and lower AURs. Inkjet hardware unit shipments declined 18% YTY principally due to declines in OEM units and the Companys decision to prioritize certain markets, segments and customers and to reduce or eliminate others. Units were also impacted by the Companys decision to focus on more profitable printer placements in every geography. Inkjet hardware AUR decreased 3% YTY as price declines were partially offset by a favorable mix shift to AIOs. Revenue by geography: The following table provides a breakdown of the Companys revenue by geography: (Dollars in Millions) 2008 % of Total 2007 % of Total % Change 2007 2006 % of Total % Change United States $ 1,864.8 41 % $ 2,140.3 43 % 13 % $ 2,140.3 $ 2,245.3 44 % 5 % EMEA (Europe, the Middle East Africa) 1,742.9 39 % 1,827.2 37 % 5 % 1,827.2 1,843.1 36 % 1 % Other International 920.7 20 % 1,006.4 20 % 9 % 1,006.4 1,019.7 20 % 1 % Total revenue $ 4,528.4 100 % $ 4,973.9 100 % 9 % $ 4,973.9 $ 5,108.1 100 % 3 % During 2008, revenue decreased in all geographies primarily due to lower laser and inkjet hardware revenue as well as lower inkjet supplies revenue. Currency exchange rates had a 2% favorable impact on revenue for the year 2008. During 2007, revenue decreased in all geographies primarily due to the previously mentioned decline in ISD revenue. Currency exchange rates had a 4% favorable impact on revenue for the year 2007. Gross Profit The following table provides gross profit information: (Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 Change 2007 2006 Change Gross profit dollars $ 1,534.6 $ 1,563.6 (2)% $ 1,563.6 $ 1,646.0 (5)% % of revenue 33.9% 31.4% 2.5pts 31.4% 32.2% (0.8)pts During 2008, consolidated gross profit decreased when compared to the prior year while gross profit as a percentage of revenue increased when compared to the prior year. The change in the gross profit margin over the prior period was primarily due to a 5.3 percentage point increase due to a favorable mix shift among products, primarily less inkjet hardware and more laser supplies, partially offset by a 2.3 percentage point decrease due to product margins and a 0.5 percentage point decrease attributable to restructuring related actions, primarily from an increase in accelerated depreciation charges YTY. Gross profit in 2008 included $42.5 million of restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities. See Restructuring and Related Charges (Reversals) and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. 36 During 2007, consolidated gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased when compared to the prior year. The change in the gross profit margin over the prior period was primarily due to a 4.2 percentage point decrease in product margins, principally in inkjet hardware, partially offset by a 3.0 percentage point favorable mix shift among products, primarily driven by less inkjet hardware revenue and a 0.4 percentage point improvement attributable to restructuring related actions primarily from a reduction in accelerated depreciation charges YTY. Gross profit in 2007 included $17.0 million of restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities. Gross profit in 2006 also included $42.1 million of restructuring related charges, primarily consisting of accelerated depreciation and project costs. See Restructuring and Related Charges (Reversals) and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Operating Expense The following table presents information regarding the Companys operating expenses during the periods indicated: 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in Millions) Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Research and development $ 423.3 9.3 % $ 403.8 8.1 % $ 370.5 7.3 % Selling, general administrative 807.3 17.9 % 812.8 16.4 % 761.8 14.9 % Restructuring and related charges 26.8 0.6 % 25.7 0.5 % 71.2 1.4 % Total operating expense $ 1,257.4 27.8 % $ 1,242.3 25.0 % $ 1,203.5 23.6 % Research and development increased in 2008 and 2007 compared to the prior year primarily due to the Companys continued investment to support laser product and solution development. These continuing investments have led to new products and solutions aimed at targeted growth segments. Selling, general and administrative (SGA) expenses in 2008 decreased YTY driven by lower general and administrative expenses. The lower general and administrative expenses were attributable to savings realized from the Companys restructuring actions, partially offset by the negative impact of currency and the Companys reinvestment of restructuring savings into the business. For 2007, SGA expense increased YTY due to demand generation activities, which included the brand development marketing campaign launched in late 2006. The initiative included a television advertising campaign along with radio and print advertising in targeted geographic and market segments. Additionally, SGA expenses in 2008 and 2007 included project costs related to the Companys restructuring activities. See discussion below of restructuring and related charges and project costs included in the Companys operating expenses for the years presented in the table above. In 2008, the Company incurred $50.2 million of restructuring and related charges and project costs due to the Companys restructuring plans. Of the $50.2 million of total restructuring and related charges and project costs incurred in 2008, $23.4 million is included in Selling, general and administrative while $26.8 million is included in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. In 2007, the Company incurred $35.0 million of restructuring and related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring plans. Of the $35.0 million of total restructuring and related charges and project costs incurred in 2007, $9.3 million (net of a $3.5 million pre tax gain on the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility) is included in Selling, general and administrative while $25.7 million is included in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Restructuring and related charges in 2006 included $81.1 million of charges for the 2006 restructuring plan partially offset by a $9.9 million pension curtailment gain. The $71.2 million of net charges are included in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 37 See Restructuring and Related Charges (Reversals) and Project Costs that follows for further discussion of the Companys restructuring plans. Operating Income (Loss) The following table provides operating income by market segment: (Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 Change 2007 2006 Change PSSD $ 497.1 $ 612.0 (19 )% $ 612.0 $ 600.1 2 % % of revenue 16.7% 20.4% (3.7 )pts 20.4% 20.9% (0.5 )pts ISD $ 137.1 93.4 47 % $ 93.4 246.0 (62 )% % of revenue 8.9% 4.7% 4.2 pts 4.7% 11.0% (6.3 )pts All other $ (357.0 ) (384.1 ) 7 % $ (384.1 ) (403.6 ) 5 % Total operating income (loss) $ 277.2 $ 321.3 (14 )% $ 321.3 $ 442.5 (27 )% % of total revenue 6.1% 6.5% (0.4 )pts 6.5% 8.7% (2.2 )pts For the year ended December 31, 2008, the decrease in consolidated operating income was due to decreased gross profits and higher operating expenses. Operating income for PSSD decreased YTY due to higher operating expenses, reflecting higher product development investments, and lower hardware gross profits, reflecting the impact of aggressive pricing as well as a negative impact due to product mix. Operating income for ISD increased YTY due to increased hardware gross margin, due to lower hardware unit sales, and decreased operating expenses, partially offset by lower supplies revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the decrease in consolidated operating income was due to decreased gross profits and higher operating expenses partially offset by a reduction in restructuring related charges and project costs YTY as discussed above. Operating income for PSSD increased YTY as higher gross profits, reflecting increased supplies revenue, were partially offset by higher operating expense, reflecting higher marketing and sales and product development investments. Operating income for ISD decreased YTY due to lower supplies revenue, lower product margins and increased operating expenses. During 2008, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs of $24.4 million in PSSD, $27.3 million in ISD and $41.0 million in All other. During 2007, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs of $12.1 million in PSSD, $12.2 million in ISD and $27.7 million in All other. During 2006, the Company incurred restructuring related charges and project costs of $35.9 million in PSSD, $57.2 million in ISD and $42.0 million in All other. All other operating income in 2006 also included a $9.9 million pension curtailment gain. See Restructuring and Related Charges (Reversals) and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Interest and Other The following table provides interest and other information: (Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006 Interest (income) expense, net $ (6.1 ) $ (21.2 ) $ (22.1 ) Other expense (income), net 7.4 (7.0 ) 5.3 Total interest and other (income) expense, net $ 1.3 $ (28.2 ) $ (16.8 ) Total interest and other (income) expense, net, was expense of $1 million in 2008 compared to income of $28 million in 2007. The 2008 decrease YTY was primarily due to increased interest expense from the $650 million debt the Company issued in May 2008 as well as the $8 million pre tax gain the Company recognized in 2007 from the substantial liquidation of the Companys Scotland entity that did not occur in 2008. Additionally, the Company recognized $8 million in net losses in 2008 related to its marketable securities. 38 Total interest and other (income) expense, net, was income of $28 million in 2007 compared to income of $17 million in 2006. During 2007, the Company substantially liquidated the remaining operations of its Scotland entity and recognized an $8.1 million pre tax gain from the realization of the entitys accumulated foreign currency translation adjustment generated on the investment in the entity during its operating life. Provision for Income Taxes and Related Matters The Companys effective income tax rate was approximately 12.9%, 13.9%, and 26.3% in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The 1.0 percentage point reduction of the effective tax rate from 2007 to 2008 was due to a reduction of 5.3 percentage points, primarily related to the geographic shift in earnings along with a variety of other factors, partially offset by a smaller amount of reversals and adjustments to previously accrued taxes in 2008 (increase of 4.3 percentage points). During 2008, the Company reversed $11.6 million of previously accrued taxes principally due to the settlement of the U.S. tax audit for years 2004 and 2005. The 12.4 percentage point reduction of the effective tax rate from 2006 to 2007 was primarily due to a geographic shift of earnings (6.9 percentage points) as well as reversals and adjustments of previously accrued taxes (5.4 percentage points). During 2007, the Company reversed $18.4 million of previously accrued taxes mostly due to the settlement of a tax audit outside the U.S. and recorded $11.2 million of adjustments to previously recorded tax amounts. Specific to the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recorded adjustments of $6.4 million to previously recorded tax amounts. The impact of these adjustments was insignificant to prior periods. The 2006 effective income tax rate included a $14.3 million benefit from the reversal of previously accrued taxes related to the finalization of certain tax audits and the expiration of various domestic and foreign statutes of limitation. During 2006, the Company was subject to a tax holiday in Switzerland with respect to the earnings of one of the Companys wholly owned Swiss subsidiaries. The holiday expired at the end of 2006. The benefit derived from the tax holiday was $1.6 million in 2006. Net Earnings Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased 20% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. Net earnings in 2008 included $92.7 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities. See Restructuring and Related Charges (Reversals) and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Net earnings in 2008 also included $12 million of non recurring tax benefits. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased 11% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. Net earnings in 2007 included $52.0 million (net of a $3.5 million pre tax gain on the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility) of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities. See Restructuring and Related Charges (Reversals) and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Net earnings in 2007 also included an $8.1 million pre tax foreign exchange gain realized upon the substantial liquidation of the Companys Scotland entity and $29 million of non recurring tax benefits. Net earnings in 2006 included $135.1 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs, a $9.9 million pre tax pension curtailment gain and a $14.3 million income tax benefit from the reversal of previously accrued taxes related to the finalization of certain tax matters. 39 Earnings per Share The following table summarizes basic and diluted net earnings per share: 2008 2007 2006 Net earnings per share: Basic $ 2.70 $ 3.16 $ 3.29 Diluted 2.69 3.14 3.27 For the year ended December 31, 2008, the decreases in basic and diluted net earnings per share YTY were attributable to decreased earnings partially offset by the decreases in the average number of shares outstanding, primarily due to the Companys stock repurchases. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the decreases in basic and diluted net earnings per share YTY were attributable to decreased earnings partially offset by the decreases in the average number of shares outstanding, primarily due to the Companys stock repurchases. RESTRUCTURING AND RELATED CHARGES (REVERSALS) AND PROJECT COSTS Summary of Restructuring Impacts The Companys 2008 financial results are impacted by its ongoing restructuring plans and related projects and are discussed in further detail below. Project costs consist of additional charges related to the execution of the restructuring plans. These project costs are incremental to the Companys normal operating charges and are expensed as incurred, and include such items as compensation costs for overlap staffing, travel expenses, consulting costs and training costs. The tables below summarize the 2008 financial impacts of the Companys restructuring plans and related projects. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred charges, including project costs, of $92.7 million for the Companys restructuring plans as follows: 2009 Action 2008 Action 2007 Action 2006 Action Restructuring Restructuring Restructuring Restructuring related related related related Charges Charges Charges Charges Project (In Millions) (Note 4) (Note 4) (Note 4) (Note 4) Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ $ 18.0 $ 17.3 $ $ 15.3 $ 50.6 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 20.2 3.0 (0.7 ) (1.5 ) 15.3 36.3 Contract termination and lease charges 4.9 0.9 5.8 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 20.2 $ 21.0 $ 21.5 $ (0.6 ) $ 30.6 $ 92.7 The Company incurred $42.5 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs in Cost of revenue and $8.1 million in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. $26.8 million of total employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges are included in Restructuring and related charges while $15.3 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to its restructuring plans of $24.4 million in PSSD, $27.3 million in ISD and $41.0 million in All other. In the first quarter of 2009, restructuring and related costs and expenses due to the restructuring actions are expected to be approximately $13 million, with expected savings of about $23 million. 40 2009 Restructuring Plan General In response to the global economic weakening, on January 13, 2009, the Company announced a restructuring plan (the 2009 Restructuring Plan). The 2009 Restructuring Plan is expected to impact about 375 positions through the end of 2009. The areas impacted include general and administrative functions, supply chain and sales support, research and development program consolidation, as well as marketing and sales management. The Company estimates the 2009 Restructuring Plan will result in total pre tax charges of approximately $45 million, all of which will require cash. Expected savings are $40 million in 2009 and $50 million per year thereafter. Approximately 95% of the savings are expected to benefit operating expense, and the remaining 5% will impact cost of sales. The Company expects the 2009 Restructuring Plan to be substantially completed by the end of 2009. Impact to 2008 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred $20.2 million for the 2009 Restructuring Plan as follows: 2009 Action Restructuring related Project (In Millions) Charges(Note 4) Costs Total Employee termination benefit charges/project costs $ 20.2 $ $ 20.2 The Company incurred $15.5 million in PSSD, $1.7 million in ISD and $3.0 million in All other. The $20.2 million of total employee termination benefit charges are included in Restructuring and related charges on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Liability Rollforward The following table presents a rollforward of the liability incurred for employee termination benefits in connection with the 2009 Restructuring Plan. The liability is included in Accrued liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Employee Termination Benefits Balance at January 1, 2008 $ Costs incurred 20.7 Payments other (1) (0.5 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 20.2 (1) Other consists of changes in the liability balance due to foreign currency translations. 2008 Restructuring Plan General To enhance the efficiency of the Companys inkjet cartridge manufacturing operations, the Company announced a plan (the 2008 Restructuring Plan) on July 22, 2008, that resulted in the closure of one of the Companys inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Mexico. The 2008 Restructuring Plan is expected to be substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of 2009, and any remaining charges to be incurred will be immaterial. 41 Impact to 2008 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred charges of $22.8 million for the 2008 Restructuring Plan as follows: 2008 Action Restructuring related (In Millions) Charges (Note 4) Project Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 18.0 $ 1.8 $ 19.8 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 3.0 3.0 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 21.0 $ 1.8 $ 22.8 The $19.8 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs are included in Cost of revenue, and the $3.0 million of total employee termination benefit charges are included in Restructuring and related charges on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The Company incurred $22.7 million in ISD and $0.1 million in All other. Liability Rollforward The following table presents a rollforward of the liability incurred for employee termination benefits in connection with the 2008 Restructuring Plan. The liability is included in Accrued liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Employee Termination Benefits Balance at January 1, 2008 $ Costs incurred 3.4 Payments other(1) (2.2 ) Reversals(2) (0.4 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 0.8 1) Other consists of changes in the liability balance due to foreign currency translations. 2) Reversals due to changes in estimates for employee termination benefits. 2007 Restructuring Plan General On October 23, 2007, the Company announced the 2007 Restructuring Plan, which included: Closing one of the Companys inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Mexico and additional optimization measures at the remaining inkjet facilities in Mexico and the Philippines; Reducing the Companys business support cost and expense structure by further consolidating activity globally and expanding the use of shared service centers in lower cost regions the areas impacted are supply chain, service delivery, general and administrative expense, as well as marketing and sales support functions; and Focusing consumer segment marketing and sales efforts into countries or geographic regions that have the highest supplies usage. The 2007 Restructuring Plan is expected to be substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of 2009, and any remaining charges to be incurred will be immaterial. 42 Impact to 2008 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred $50.3 million for the 2007 Restructuring Plan as presented below: 2007 Action Restructuring related Charges (In Millions) (Note 4) Project Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 17.3 $ 13.5 $ 30.8 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs (0.7 ) 15.3 14.6 Contract termination and lease charges 4.9 4.9 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 21.5 $ 28.8 $ 50.3 $22.7 million and $8.1 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs are included in Cost of revenue and Selling, general and administrative, respectively, on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The $4.2 million of total employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges are included in Restructuring and related charges while the $15.3 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to its 2007 Restructuring Plan of $9.2 million in PSSD, $2.9 million in ISD, and $38.2 million in All other. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company sold one of its inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Juarez, Mexico for $4.6 million and recognized a $1.1 million pre tax gain on the sale that is included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The $15.3 million of project costs is the net amount incurred after including the gain recognized on the sale. Liability Rollforward The following table presents a rollforward of the liability incurred for employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges in connection with the 2007 Restructuring Plan. Of the total $16.2 million restructuring liability, $14.9 million is included in Accrued liabilities and $1.3 million is included in Other liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Employee Termination Contract Benefit Termination Charges Lease Charges Total Balance at January 1, 2007 $ $ $ Costs incurred 25.7 25.7 Payments other(1) (4.6 ) (4.6 ) Balance at December 31, 2007 21.1 21.1 Costs incurred 7.1 4.9 12.0 Payments other(2) (8.3 ) (0.7 ) (9.0 ) Reversals(3) (7.9 ) (7.9 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 12.0 $ 4.2 $ 16.2 1) Other consists of pension related items that were settled through the Companys pension plans. 2) Other consists of changes in the liability balance due to foreign currency translations. 3) Reversals due to changes in estimates for employee termination benefits. 43 Impacts to 2007 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred charges of $34.2 million for the 2007 Restructuring Plan as follows: 2007 Action Restructuring related (In Millions) Charges (Note 4) Project Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 5.1 $ 0.8 $ 5.9 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 25.7 2.6 28.3 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 30.8 $ 3.4 $ 34.2 The Company incurred $5.9 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs in Cost of revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. $25.7 million of total employee termination benefit charges are included in Restructuring and related charges while $2.6 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs of $6.4 million in PSSD, $14.9 million in ISD and $12.9 million in All other. 2006 Restructuring Plan During the first quarter of 2006, the Company approved a plan to restructure its workforce, consolidate manufacturing capacity and make certain changes to its U.S. retirement plans (collectively referred to as the 2006 actions). Except for approximately 100 positions that were eliminated in 2007, activities related to the 2006 actions were substantially completed at the end of 2006. Impact to 2008 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company reversed $1.5 million of previously accrued employee termination benefits and accrued an additional $0.9 million of contract termination and lease charges due to a revision in assumptions based on current economic conditions. The net reversal is included in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Of the net $0.6 million reversed in 2008, the Company recognized $(0.3) million in PSSD and $(0.3) million in All other. Impact to 2007 Financial Results During the first quarter of 2007, the Company sold its Rosyth, Scotland facility for $8.1 million and recognized a $3.5 million pre tax gain on the sale that is included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. During the second quarter of 2007, the Company substantially liquidated the remaining operations of its Scotland entity and recognized an $8.1 million pre tax gain from the realization of the entitys accumulated foreign currency translation adjustment generated on the investment in the entity during its operating life. This gain is included in Other (income) expense, net on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred approximately $17.8 million of project costs related to the Companys 2006 actions. The $17.8 million of project costs is the net amount incurred after including the gain recognized on the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility during the first quarter of 2007. Of the $17.8 million of 2006 project costs incurred, $11.1 million is included in Cost of revenue and $6.7 million in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred total pre tax 2006 project costs of $5.7 million in PSSD and $14.8 million in All other, while ISD realized a $2.7 million net benefit after the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility. 44 Impact to 2006 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company incurred net pre tax charges and project costs of $125.2 million related to the 2006 actions. Of the $125.2 million, $42.1 million is included in Cost of revenue, $11.9 million in Selling, general and administrative and $71.2 million in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs of $35.9 million in PSSD, $57.2 million in ISD and $42 million in All other. All other operating income also included a $9.9 million pension curtailment gain. Liability Rollforward The following table presents a rollforward of the liability incurred for employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges in connection with the 2006 actions. Of the total $2.1 million restructuring liability, $1.0 million is included in Accrued liabilities and $1.1 million is included in Other liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Employee Termination Contract Benefit Termination Charges Lease Charges Total Balance at January 1, 2007 $ 25.3 $ 4.8 $ 30.1 Payments other (1) (14.0 ) (1.7 ) (15.7 ) Reversals (3) (0.9 ) (1.7 ) (2.6 ) Balance at December 31, 2007 10.4 1.4 11.8 Costs incurred 1.0 1.0 Payments other (2) (7.8 ) (0.7 ) (8.5 ) Reversals (3) (2.2 ) (2.2 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 0.4 $ 1.7 $ 2.1 (1) Other consists of additions due to positions being eliminated in 2007 and changes in the liability balance due to foreign currency translations. (2) Other consists of changes in the liability balance due to foreign currency translations. (3) Reversals due to changes in estimates for employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT PLANS The following table provides the total pre tax cost related to Lexmarks retirement plans for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006. Cost amounts are included as an addition to the Companys cost and expense amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. (Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006 Total cost of pension and other postretirement plans $ 37.0 $ 40.2 $ 34.4 Comprised of: Defined benefit pension plans $ 11.4 $ 13.2 $ 12.5 Defined contribution plans 25.1 25.8 20.5 Other postretirement plans 0.5 1.2 1.4 The increase in the cost of defined contribution plans in 2007 and 2008 compared to 2006 was primarily due to the enhancement of benefits in the U.S. plan that were enacted in April 2006. Changes in actuarial assumptions did not have a significant impact on the Companys results of operations in 2007 and 2008, nor are they expected to have a material effect in 2009. Future effects of retirement related benefits on the operating results of the Company depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates and investment performance. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement plans. 45 In 2008, there was a significant decline in the value of pension plan assets primarily resulting from a large decline in equity markets. Because the Company defers current year differences between actual and expected asset returns on equity investments over the subsequent five years in accordance with prescribed accounting guidelines, this is only expected to increase the 2009 pension expense for US plans by approximately $5 million. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act) was enacted on August 17, 2006. Most of its provisions have become effective in 2008. The Act significantly changes the funding requirements for single employer defined benefit pension plans. The funding requirements are now largely based on a plans calculated funded status, with faster amortization of any shortfalls. The Act directs the U.S. Treasury Department to develop a new yield curve to discount pension obligations for determining the funded status of a plan when calculating the funding requirements. The provisions of the Act have resulted in the need for additional funding in 2009 of approximately $76 million in the first quarter. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Financial Position Lexmarks financial position remains strong at December 31, 2008, with working capital of $805 million compared to $570 million at December 31, 2007. The increase in working capital accounts was primarily due to the $239.8 million decrease in current liabilities driven by the Companys repayment of $150.0 million senior note debt that matured in the second quarter of 2008 as well as the $79.8 million decrease in accounts payable discussed below. Current assets decreased slightly, driven by declines in trade receivables and inventories offset by the increase in the Companys marketable securities investments. Although declining from 2006 to 2008, the Company continues to generate solid cash flows from operating activities as discussed below. The Company issued $650 million of new long term debt in 2008, but used a large portion of the proceeds to repurchase shares during the second half of 2008. Lexmark also had $5.5 million of other short term borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2008. The Company had no amounts outstanding under its U.S. trade receivables financing program or its revolving credit facility at December 31, 2008, or December 31, 2007. The debt to total capital ratio was 45% at December 31, 2008, compared to 10% at December 31, 2007. Liquidity The following table summarizes the results of the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years indicated: (Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006 Net cash flows provided by (used for): Operating activities $ 482.1 $ 564.2 $ 670.9 Investing activities (427.6 ) (287.4 ) 112.7 Financing activities (48.1 ) (147.0 ) (808.7 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (4.2 ) 2.6 1.4 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 2.2 $ 132.4 $ (23.7 ) The Companys primary source of liquidity has been cash generated by operations, which totaled $482 million, $564 million and $671 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Cash from operations generally has been sufficient to allow the Company to fund its working capital needs and finance its capital expenditures during these periods along with the repurchase of approximately $0.6 billion, $0.2 billion and $0.9 billion of its Class A Common Stock during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Management believes that cash provided by operations will continue to be sufficient to meet operating and capital needs in the foreseeable future. However, in the event that cash from operations is 46 not sufficient, the Company has other potential sources of cash through utilization of its accounts receivable financing program, revolving credit facility or other financing sources. Operating activities The decrease in cash flows from operating activities from 2007 to 2008 was driven by the $116.7 million unfavorable YTY change in Accounts Payable, the $110.2 million combined unfavorable changes in Accrued liabilities and Other assets and liabilities, as well as various other lines impacted by the general decline in profitability in the third and fourth quarter of 2008. These movements were offset partially by the $145.0 million favorable YTY impact of Trade receivables. The unfavorable impact of Accounts Payable was largely due to the timing of vendor payments. In 2007, the Company was able to lengthen the cycle in which it pays its vendors, as indicated by the cash conversion days chart in the following section. In addition, a cash flow timing benefit was realized at year end 2007 related to vendors with end of month payment terms who were paid the first week of 2008. These two conditions resulted in a larger year end 2007 Accounts Payable balance, which was then paid in 2008 resulting in unfavorable YTY movement. The unfavorable impacts of Accrued liabilities and Other assets and liabilities were due to many factors. Notable YTY fluctuations in cash outflows included $21.7 million of additional cash paid for income taxes, $97.8 million paid in 2008 compared to $76.1 million in 2007, as well as $14.3 million of additional cash paid for interest, $26.9 million paid in 2008 compared to $12.6 million paid in 2007. Due to the current level of senior note debt outstanding, interest payments should be roughly $30 million higher per year than payments made in recent years, though a small portion of this increase may be capitalizable for certain long lived assets under construction. The favorable impact of Accounts Receivable was driven by collections, as indicated in the cash conversion days table in the section below. Days of sales outstanding decreased 4 days from year end 2007 to year end 2008 due to improvements in delinquency, geographic shift in sales to faster collecting countries, and the timing within the quarter in which the sales occurred. In regard to the weakening economy, the Company has not experienced any notable customer liquidity issues impacting the collectibility of its receivables, with the exception of the Circuit City bankruptcy which did not have a material impact on the Companys current year cash flows or results of operations. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from lower net earnings as well as unfavorable changes of $69 million in Accrued liabilities and $61 million in Trade Receivables. The change in Accrued liabilities was primarily due to unfavorable changes in accrued salaries and incentive compensation of $49 million and restructuring related accruals of $27 million compared to the prior year. The impact of accrued salaries and incentive compensation was driven by the payment of 2006 bonuses in the first quarter of 2007. Bonuses earned in 2006 were considerably higher than those earned in 2005. Payments for such programs generally occur in the first quarter of the subsequent year. The impact of restructuring related accruals was driven by the relatively small movement in the liability in 2007 compared to that of 2006, resulting in a lower non cash addition to net earnings when deriving cash flows from operations. In 2007, there were approximately $26 million of accruals offset by $23 million of payments and other adjustments, resulting in a non cash addition to net earnings of only $3 million related to the Companys restructuring actions. In 2006, there were approximately $81 million of accruals offset partially by $51 million of payments and other adjustments, resulting in a non cash addition to net earnings of $30 million related to the Companys restructuring actions. The $61 million change noted in Trade Receivables was primarily the result of greater collections in the year 2006 versus 2007, the majority of which occurred in the first quarter. A significantly higher trade receivables balance existed at December 31, 2005 versus December 31, 2006 due to a larger portion of the fourth quarter sales for 2005 occurring in the later part of the quarter. 47 Cash Conversion Days 2008 2007 2006 Days of sales outstanding 36 40 38 Days of inventory 51 48 44 Days of payables 65 66 57 Cash conversion days 22 22 25 Cash conversion days represent the number of days that elapse between the moment the Company pays for materials and the day it collects cash from its customers. Cash conversion days are equal to days of sales outstanding plus days of inventory less days of payables. The days of sales outstanding are calculated using the year end trade receivables, net of allowances, and the average daily revenue for the quarter. The days of inventory are calculated using the year end net inventories balance and the average daily cost of revenue for the quarter. The days of payables are calculated using the year end accounts payable balance and the average daily cost of revenue for the quarter. Cash Generation Trends Cash flow from operations has trended downward since 2006 and the Companys cash flow from operations was lower in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to prior periods. Recent economic conditions have impacted the Companys profitability as well as contracted its receivables, inventories and accounts payable. Based on these facts, it is possible that the Companys 2009 cash flow from operations may be less than cash flow from operations generated in 2008. In addition to cash flow from operations, the Company has additional sources of liquidity that are discussed further in the Additional Sources of Liquidity section that follows. Refer to the contractual cash obligations in the pages that follow for additional information regarding items that will likely impact the Companys future cash flows. Investing activities The Company increased its marketable securities investments by $210.6 million and $112.9 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company decreased its marketable securities investments in 2006 by $314.8 million, electing to spend more money on share repurchases in that year. The YTY variations in cash flows (used for) provided by investing activities were driven by the Companys marketable securities investment activities. The Companys investments in marketable securities are classified and accounted for as available for sale. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the Companys marketable securities portfolio consisted of asset backed and mortgage backed securities, corporate debt securities, municipal debt securities, U.S. government and agency debt securities, commercial paper, certificates of deposit and preferred securities, including approximately $25 million and $79 million, respectively, of auction rate securities. Market conditions continue to indicate significant uncertainty on the part of investors on the economic outlook for the U.S. and for financial institutions. This uncertainty has created reduced liquidity across the fixed income investment market, including the securities in which Lexmark is invested. As a result, some of the Companys investments have experienced reduced liquidity including unsuccessful auctions for its auction rate security holdings as well as temporary and other than temporary impairment of other marketable securities. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized $7.9 million in net losses on its marketable securities, including $7.3 million for other than temporary impairment of securities held by the Company on December 31, 2008 described in following paragraph. 48 In 2008 there were several significant market events, including the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings and the failure of many auction rate securities. In 2008, Lexmark transferred its Lehman Brothers corporate debt securities into the Level 3 category of the fair value hierarchy, and subsequently took a charge of $4.4 million based on the estimated fair value of the investments determined from indicative pricing sources. Additionally in 2008, the Company recognized a $1.9 million charge for other than temporary impairment in connection with its auction rate fixed income securities; the fair value of which was determined using an internal discount cash flow valuation model discussed later in this section. The Company also incurred another $1.0 million of charges related to other than temporary impairments of certain distressed corporate debt, mortgage backed and asset backed securities. The $7.3 million in total losses were recognized in Other (income) expense, net on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings and included in the Companys Level 3 rollforward table in Part II, Item 8, Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the Company has recognized a cumulative, pre tax valuation allowance of $1.7 million included in Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, representing a temporary impairment of the overall portfolio. The pre tax valuation allowance consists of gross unrealized losses of $8.2 million, primarily related to asset backed and mortgage backed securities and corporate debt securities, offset partially by $6.5 million of gross unrealized holding gains related mostly to US government and agency securities. The Company assesses its marketable securities for other than temporary declines in value by considering several factors that include, among other things, any events that may affect the creditworthiness of a securitys issuer, current and expected market conditions, the length of time and extent to which fair value is less than cost, and the Companys ability and intent to hold the security until a forecasted recovery of fair value that may include holding the security to maturity. As of February 27, 2009, the Company does not believe that it has a material risk in its current portfolio of investments that would impact its financial condition or liquidity. Auction rate securities that do not successfully auction reset to the maximum rate as prescribed in the underlying offering statement. During the first quarter of 2008, the Company reclassified $59.4 million in auction rate fixed income securities from Current assets to Noncurrent assets on its Consolidated Condensed Statement of Financial Position due to the fact that the securities had experienced unsuccessful auctions and poor debt market conditions had reduced the likelihood that the securities would successfully auction within the next 12 months. During the next three quarters, $40.5 million of the Companys auction rate securities were either sold or redeemed at par, resulting in no realized losses in 2008. At year end 2008, the Company performed a discounted cash flow analysis on its remaining auction rate securities that resulted in a mark to market loss adjustment of $2.5 million. Of this $2.5 million loss adjustment, $1.9 million (mentioned previously) was recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as an other than temporary impairment due to credit events involving the issuer and insurer of one security. The remaining $0.6 million was recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Based on Lexmarks assessment of the credit quality of the underlying collateral and credit support available to each of the auction rate securities in which the Company is invested, it believes no additional other than temporary impairment has occurred. The Company has the ability and intent to hold these securities until liquidity in the market or optional issuer redemption occurs and could also hold the securities to maturity. Additionally, if Lexmark required capital, the Company has available liquidity through its accounts receivable program and revolving credit facility. Recent events have led to an increased focus on fair value accounting, including the practices companies utilize to value financial instruments. The Company uses a third party to provide the fair values of the marketable securities in which Lexmark is invested, though the valuation of its investments is the responsibility of the Company. The Company has performed a reasonable level of due diligence in the way of documenting the pricing methodologies used by the third party as well as a limited amount of sampling of the valuations. Most of the Companys securities are valued using a consensus price method, whereby prices from a variety of industry data providers (multiple quotes) are input into a distribution curve based algorithm to determine daily market values. Pricing inputs for a select number of securities were provided and compared to the overall valuation for reasonableness. In limited instances, the Company has 49 adjusted the fair values provided by the third party in order to better reflect the risk adjustments that market participants would make for nonperformance and liquidity risks. Level 3 fair value measurements are based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall valuation. The Companys Level 3 recurring fair value measurements include security types that do not have readily determinable market values and or are not priced by independent data sources, including failed auction rate securities valued at $24.7 million (discussed previously), certain distressed debt instruments valued at $0.8 million (including Lehman corporate debt valued at $0.5 million) and other thinly traded corporate debt securities and mortgage backed securities valued at $0.6 million. These measurements were roughly 3.6% of the Companys total available for sale marketable securities portfolio. The discounted cash flow analysis performed by the Company on its auction rate securities at year end 2008 used current coupon rates, a first quarter 2010 redemption date and a 50 basis point liquidity premium factored into the discount rate. The result was the Companys best estimate of fair value using assumptions that the Company believes market participants would make for nonperformance and liquidity risk at the measurement date. For certain debt instruments that the Company considers distressed due to reasons such as bankruptcy or a significant downgrade in credit rating, the securities are generally valued using non binding quotes from brokers or other indicative pricing sources. For certain corporate debt and mortgage backed securities held by the Company, current pricing data was no longer available at the measurement date, representing a decline in the volume and level of trading activity. These securities are also generally valued using non binding quotes from brokers or other indicative pricing sources. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding FAS 157 Fair Value Measurements. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding marketable securities. In addition to investing in marketable securities, the Company also invested $217.7 million, $182.7 million and $200.2 million into property, plant and equipment for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006 respectively. Further discussion regarding 2008 capital expenditures as well as anticipated spending for 2009 are provided near the end of Item 7. Other notable investing cash flows include $4.6 million proceeds received from the sale of the Companys inkjet supplies assembly plant located in Juarez, Mexico in the third quarter of 2008 as well as $8.1 million proceeds received from the sale of the Scotland facility that occurred in the first quarter of 2007. These events are presented in Proceeds from sale of facilities in the Investing section of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for their respective periods. Financing activities The fluctuations in the net cash flows used for financing activities were principally due to the Companys share repurchase activity, offset partially by the repayment of debt and issuance of new debt that occurred in the second quarter of 2008. The Company repurchased $0.6 billion, $0.2 billion and $0.9 billion of treasury stock during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Refer to the sections that follow for additional information regarding these financing activities. Share Repurchases In May 2008, the Company received authorization from the board of directors to repurchase an additional $750 million of its Class A Common Stock for a total repurchase authority of $4.65 billion. As of December 31, 2008, there was approximately $0.5 billion of share repurchase authority remaining. This repurchase authority allows the Company, at managements discretion, to selectively repurchase its stock from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon market price and other factors. During 2008, the Company repurchased approximately 17.5 million shares at a cost of approximately $0.6 billion, including two accelerated share repurchase agreements discussed below. As of December 31, 2008, since the inception of the program in April 1996, the Company had repurchased approximately 91.6 million shares for an aggregate cost of approximately $4.2 billion. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had reissued approximately 0.5 million shares of previously 50 repurchased shares in connection with certain of its employee benefit programs. As a result of these issuances as well as the retirement of 44.0 million, 16.0 million and 16.0 million shares of treasury stock in 2005, 2006 and 2008, respectively, the net treasury shares outstanding at December 31, 2008, were 15.1 million. Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements The Company executed two accelerated share repurchase agreements (ASR) with financial institution counterparties in 2008, resulting in a total of 8.7 million shares repurchased at a cost of $250.0 million over the third and fourth quarter. The impact of the two ASRs is included in the share repurchase totals provided in the preceding paragraphs. The settlement provisions of both ASRs were essentially forward contracts, and were accounted for under the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 00 19 Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Companys Own Stock as equity instruments. The details of each ASR are provided in the following paragraphs. On August 28, 2008, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a financial institution counterparty. Under the terms of the ASR, the Company paid $150.0 million targeting 4.1 million shares based on an initial price of $36.90. On September 3, 2008, the Company took delivery of 85% of the shares, or 3.5 million shares at a cost of $127.5 million. The final number of shares to be delivered by the counterparty under the ASR was dependent on the average of the daily volume weighted average price of the Companys common stock over the agreements trading period, a discount, and the initial number of shares delivered. Under the terms of the ASR, the Company would either receive additional shares from the counterparty or be required to deliver additional shares or cash to the counterparty. The Company controlled its election to either deliver additional shares or cash to the counterparty. On October 21, 2008, the counterparty delivered 1.2 million shares in final settlement of the agreement, bringing the total shares repurchased under the ASR to 4.7 million at a total cost of $150.0 million at an average price per share of $31.91. On October 21, 2008, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with another financial institution counterparty. Under the terms of the ASR, the Company paid $100.0 million targeting 3.9 million shares based on an initial price of $25.71. On October 24, 2008, the Company took delivery of 85% of the shares, or 3.3 million shares at a cost of $85.0 million. The final number of shares to be delivered by the counterparty under the ASR was dependent on the average of the daily volume weighted average price of the Companys common stock over the agreements trading period, a discount, and the initial number of shares delivered. Under the terms of the ASR, the Company would either receive additional shares from the counterparty or be required to deliver additional shares or cash to the counterparty. The Company controlled its election to either deliver additional shares or cash to the counterparty. On December 26, 2008, the counterparty delivered 0.7 million shares in final settlement of the agreement, bringing the total shares repurchased under the ASR to 4.0 million at a total cost of $100.0 million at an average price per share of $25.22. Retirement of Treasury Shares In December 2005, October 2006 and October 2008, the Company received authorization from the board of directors to retire 44.0 million, 16.0 million and 16.0 million shares, respectively, of the Companys Class A Common Stock currently held in the Companys treasury as treasury stock. The retired shares resumed the status of authorized but unissued shares of Class A Common Stock. Refer to the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity and Comprehensive Earnings for the effects on Common stock, Capital in excess of par, Retained earnings and Treasury stock from the retirement of the 16.0 million shares of Class A Common Stock in 2006 and 16.0 million shares of Class A Common Stock in 2008. 51 Senior Notes Long term Debt and Current Portion of Long term Debt In May 2008, the Company repaid its $150 million principal amount of 6.75% senior notes that were due on May 15, 2008. Additionally, in May 2008, the Company completed a public debt offering of $650 million aggregate principal amount of fixed rate senior unsecured notes. The notes are split into two tranches of five and ten year notes respectively. The five year notes with an aggregate principal amount of $350 million and 5.9% coupon were priced at 99.83% to have an effective yield to maturity of 5.939% and will mature June 1, 2013 (referred to as the 2013 senior notes). The ten year notes with an aggregate principal amount of $300 million and 6.65% coupon were priced at 99.73% to have an effective yield to maturity of 6.687% and will mature June 1, 2018 (referred to as the 2018 senior notes). At December 31, 2008, the outstanding balance was $648.7 million (net of unamortized discount of $1.3 million). The 2013 and 2018 senior notes (collectively referred to as the senior notes) pay interest on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning December 1, 2008. The interest rate payable on the notes of each series will be subject to adjustments from time to time if either Moodys Investors Service, Inc. or Standard and Poors Ratings Services downgrades the debt rating assigned to the notes to a level below investment grade, or subsequently upgrades the ratings. The senior notes contain typical restrictions on liens, sale leaseback transactions, mergers and sales of assets. There are no sinking fund requirements on the senior notes and they may be redeemed at any time at the option of the Company, at a redemption price as described in the related indenture agreement, as supplemented and amended, in whole or in part. If a change of control triggering event as defined below occurs, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the notes in cash from the holders at a price equal to 101% of their aggregate principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of repurchase. A change of control triggering event is defined as the occurrence of both a change of control and a downgrade in the debt rating assigned to the notes to a level below investment grade. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, including to fund share repurchases, repay debt, finance acquisitions, finance capital expenditures and operating expenses and invest in any subsidiaries. Additional Sources of Liquidity Credit Facility Effective January 20, 2005, Lexmark entered into a $300 million 5 year senior, unsecured, multi currency revolving credit facility with a group of banks. Under the credit facility, the Company may borrow in U.S. dollars, euros, British pounds sterling and Japanese yen. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, there were no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. Lexmarks credit agreement contains usual and customary default provisions, leverage and interest coverage restrictions and certain restrictions on secured and subsidiary debt, disposition of assets, liens and mergers and acquisitions. The $300 million credit facility has a maturity date of January 20, 2010. Interest on all borrowings under the facility depends upon the type of loan, namely alternative base rate loans, swingline loans or eurocurrency loans. Alternative base rate loans bear interest at the greater of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus one half of one percent. Swingline loans (limited to $50 million) bear interest at an agreed upon rate at the time of the borrowing. Eurocurrency loans bear interest at the sum of (i) a LIBOR for the applicable currency and interest period and (ii) an interest rate spread based upon the Companys debt ratings ranging from 0.18% to 0.80%. In addition, Lexmark is required to pay a facility fee on the $300 million line of credit of 0.07% to 0.20% based upon the Companys debt ratings. The interest and facility fees are payable at least quarterly. 52 Trade Receivables Facility In the U.S., the Company transfers a majority of its receivables to its wholly owned subsidiary, Lexmark Receivables Corporation (LRC), which then may transfer the receivables on a limited recourse basis to an unrelated third party. The financial results of LRC are included in the Companys consolidated financial results. LRC is a separate legal entity with its own separate creditors who, in a liquidation of LRC, would be entitled to be satisfied out of LRCs assets prior to any value in LRC becoming available for equity claims of the Company. In October 2004, the Company entered into an amended and restated agreement to sell a portion of its trade receivables on a limited recourse basis. The amended agreement allowed for a maximum capital availability of $200 million under this facility. The primary purpose of the amendment was to extend the term of the facility to October 16, 2007, with required annual renewal of commitments. During the first quarter of 2007, the Company amended the facility to allow LRC to repurchase receivables previously transferred to the unrelated third party. Prior to the 2007 amendment, the Company accounted for the transfer of receivables from LRC to the unrelated third party as sales of receivables. As a result of the 2007 amendment, the Company accounts for the transfers of receivables from LRC to the unrelated third party as a secured borrowing with a pledge of its receivables as collateral. The amendment became effective in the second quarter of 2007. In October 2008, the facility was renewed until October 3, 2009 and the maximum capital available under the facility decreased from $200 million to $100 million. This facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants as well as specific provisions related to the quality of the accounts receivables transferred. As collections reduce previously transferred receivables, the Company may replenish these with new receivables. Lexmark bears a limited risk of bad debt losses on the trade receivables transferred, since the Company over collateralizes the receivables transferred with additional eligible receivables. Lexmark addresses this risk of loss in its allowance for doubtful accounts. Receivables transferred to the unrelated third party may not include amounts over 90 days past due or concentrations over certain limits with any one customer. The facility also contains customary cash control triggering events which, if triggered, could adversely affect the Companys liquidity and or its ability to transfer trade receivables. A downgrade in the Companys credit rating could reduce the Companys ability to transfer trade receivables. There were no secured borrowings outstanding under the facility at December 31, 2008 or December 31, 2007. Other Information The Companys credit rating could be influenced by a number of factors, including overall economic conditions, demand for the Companys printers and associated supplies and ability to generate sufficient cash flow to service the Companys debt. The Company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of its revolving credit facility and public debt. The Companys borrowing capacity may be reduced under the Accounts Receivable Program should the Companys rating decline. In addition, a downgrade in the Companys credit rating could increase the cost of borrowing under its revolving credit facility and the coupon payments on the Companys public debt if the rating falls below investment grade. Moreover, credit ratings could adversely affect the Companys ability to obtain access to new financings in the future and could increase the cost of such borrowings. The Companys current credit ratings are Baa2 and BBB, as evaluated by Moodys Investors Service and Standard Poors Ratings Services, respectively. Lexmark has been notified by the two credit rating agencies above that the Companys credit rating is under review. The Company is in compliance with all covenants and other requirements set forth in its debt agreements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. 53 Contractual Cash Obligations The following table summarizes the Companys contractual obligations at December 31, 2008: Less than 1 3 3 5 More than (Dollars in Millions) Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Long term debt(1) $ 933 $ 41 $ 81 $ 421 $ 390 Capital leases 1 1 Operating leases 94 36 41 14 3 Purchase obligations 160 160 Uncertain tax positions 29 6 23 Other long term liabilities(2) 62 38 7 17 Total contractual obligations $ 1,279 $ 282 $ 152 $ 435 $ 410 (1) includes interest payments (2) includes current portion of other long term liabilities Long term debt reported in the table above includes principal repayments of $350 million and $300 million in the 3 5 Years and More than 5 Years columns, respectively. All other amounts represent interest payments. Purchase obligations reported in the table above include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. In connection with the Companys restructuring programs, the total liability balance at December 31, 2008 was $39 million, including $37 million that is included in Accrued liabilities and is expected to be paid in the next twelve months and $2 million that is included in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The $39 million total is included in Other long term liabilities in the table above, with short term and long term amounts reported separately in the Less than 1 Year and 1 3 Years columns, respectively. These payments will relate mainly to employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges. The Companys funding policy for its pension plans is to fund minimum amounts according to the regulatory requirements under which the plans operate. From time to time, the Company may choose to fund amounts in excess of the minimum for various reasons. The Company is currently expecting to contribute approximately $100 million to its pension and other postretirement plans in 2009, driven by the steep decline in the fair value of plan assets that occurred in 2008. Expected funding obligations beyond 2009 are uncertain due to a variety of factors. The effect of any future contributions the Company may be obligated or otherwise choose to make could be material to the Companys future cash flows from operations. Due to the uncertainty of future funding obligations beyond 2009, the table above contains no amounts for pension plan contributions. The Companys financial obligation to collect, recycle, treat and dispose of the printing devices it produces, and in some instances, historical waste equipment it holds, is not shown in the table above due to the lack of historical data necessary to project future dates of payment. At December 31, 2008, the Companys estimated liability for this obligation was a current liability of $1 million and a long term liability of $33 million. These amounts were included in Accrued liabilities and Other liabilities, respectively, on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Refer to the Risk Factors section in Part I, Item 1A of this report for additional information regarding the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive adopted by the European Union. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had accrued approximately $118 million for pending copyright fee issues, including litigation proceedings, local legislative initiatives and or negotiations with the parties involved. These accruals are included in Accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The liability is not included in the table above due to the level of uncertainty regarding the timing of 54 payments and ultimate settlement of the litigation. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Capital expenditures totaled $218 million, $183 million and $200 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The capital expenditures in 2008 were primarily attributable to infrastructure support (including information technology expenditures) and new product development. During 2009, the Company expects capital expenditures to be approximately $225 million, primarily attributable to infrastructure support and new product development. The capital expenditures are expected to be funded through cash from operations. EFFECT OF CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT Revenue derived from international sales, including exports from the U.S., accounts for approximately 59% of the Companys consolidated revenue, with Europe accounting for approximately two thirds of international sales. Substantially all foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their local currencies. Consequently, period to period comparability of results of operations is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Certain of the Companys Latin American and European entities use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. Currency exchange rates had a favorable impact on international revenue in 2008 and 2007 when compared with 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company acts to neutralize the effects of exchange rate fluctuations through the use of operational hedges, such as pricing actions and product sourcing decisions. The Companys exposure to exchange rate fluctuations generally cannot be minimized solely through the use of operational hedges. Therefore, the Company utilizes financial instruments, from time to time, such as forward exchange contracts to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities, which arise from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The Company does not purchase currency related financial instruments for purposes other than exchange rate risk management. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements which is incorporated herein by reference. INFLATION The Company is subject to the effects of changing prices and operates in an industry where product prices are very competitive and subject to downward price pressures. As a result, future increases in production costs or raw material prices could have an adverse effect on the Companys business. In an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of any such increases, the Company must continually manage its product costs and manufacturing processes. Additionally, monetary assets such as cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities lose purchasing power during inflationary periods and thus, the Companys cash and marketable securities balances could be more susceptible to the effects of increasing inflation. 55 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY The market risk inherent in the Companys financial instruments and positions represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rates At December 31, 2008, the fair value of the Companys senior notes was estimated at $505 million using quoted market prices obtained from an independent broker. The carrying value as recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2008 exceeded the fair value of the senior notes by approximately $143.7 million. Market risk is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and amounts to approximately $26.9 million at December 31, 2008. See the section titled LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Investing Activities: in Item 7 of this report for a discussion of the Companys auction rate securities portfolio which is incorporated herein by reference. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates The Company has employed, from time to time, a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the Companys functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the Euro, the Mexican peso, the British pound, the Philippine peso, the Canadian dollar as well as other currencies. Exposures may be hedged with foreign currency forward contracts, put options, and call options generally with maturity dates of twelve months or less. The potential gain in fair value at December 31, 2008 for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $6.7 million. This gain would be mitigated by corresponding losses on the underlying exposures. 56 
 
