Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto presented under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K. OVERVIEW Products and Segments Lexmark makes it easier for businesses of all sizes to move information between the digital and paper worlds. Since its inception in 1991, Lexmark has become a leading developer, manufacturer and supplier of printing and imaging solutions for the office. Lexmarks products include laser printers, inkjet printers, multifunction devices, dot matrix printers and associated supplies, services and solutions. The Company is primarily managed along divisional lines: PSSD and ISD. PSSD primarily sells laser products and primarily serves business customers. Laser products can be divided into two major categories shared workgroup products and lower priced desktop products. Lexmark employs large account sales and marketing teams, closely supported by its development and product marketing teams, to generate demand for its business printing solutions and services. The sales and marketing teams primarily focus on industries such as financial services, retail, manufacturing, education, government and health care. Lexmark also markets its laser and inkjet products through SMB teams who work closely with channel partners. Lexmark distributes and fulfills its laser products primarily through its well established distributor and reseller network. Lexmarks products are also sold through solution providers, which offer custom solutions to specific markets, and through direct response resellers. ISD predominantly sells inkjet products to a range of customers, including SOHO users, professionals and consumers who are heavy users, as well as business users who may choose inkjet products as a lower priced alternative or supplement to laser products. ISD also sells select laser products in certain geographies to SOHO and business users that purchase products through retail channels. Additionally, over the past couple of years, the number of customers seeking productivity related features has driven significant growth in AIO products. Key factors promoting this trend are greater affordability of AIOs containing productivity features like wireless connectivity, full fax capabilities, automatic document feeders and duplex capabilities. Lexmark distributes its branded inkjet products and supplies through retail outlets as well as distributors and resellers worldwide. Lexmarks sales and marketing activities are organized to meet the needs of the various geographies and the size of their markets. The Company also sells its products through numerous alliances and OEM arrangements. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Companys reportable segments, which is incorporated herein by reference. Operating Results Summary 2009 The weakness of the global economy continued to impact revenue and operating income in both of the Companys segments during 2009. This included adverse effects on global demand for both hardware and supplies in both of the Companys segments. Additionally, Lexmarks inkjet strategy shift that began in 2007 to transition to higher usage customers and products, and reduce sales of low end / low price inkjet hardware, continued to impact the Companys inkjet unit sales and supplies revenue. The objective of this transition is to move to a smaller installed base of higher page generating units. However, in the near term, the Company sees the potential for continued erosion in end user inkjet supplies demand due to the reduction in inkjet hardware unit sales during this transition period. In addition, the Company has experienced weakness in its OEM business over the last several years, which the Company believes 24 Table of Contents could result in lower OEM inkjet and laser supplies demand. However, during 2009 the Company introduced or continued the introduction of a wide array of new hardware products in both its segments. Beginning in the fall of 2008 and continuing through the end of 2009, the Company has announced products that represent the most extensive series of laser product introductions in the Companys history. The new product introductions have significantly strengthened the breadth and depth of the Companys workgroup laser line, color laser line and laser MFPs. In September 2009, the Company introduced a new family of inkjet all in ones (including new Web connected touch screen AIOs). This included four products in the Lexmark Professional Series, targeted for small and medium businesses. In 2009, the Company also experienced an improvement in the Companys retail presence in U.S. Office Super Stores. The Company continues to invest in its core print technologies and product development in order to generate new Lexmark products. Refer to the section entitled RESULTS OF OPERATIONS that follows for a further discussion of the Companys results of operations. Trends and Opportunities Lexmark management believes that the total distributed output opportunity was between $80 and $90 billion in 2009, including hardware and supplies. This opportunity includes printers and multifunction devices as well as a declining base of copiers and fax machines that are increasingly being integrated into multifunction devices. Based on industry information, Lexmark management believes that the market declined in 2009 due to the continued global economic weakness. When global economic growth resumes, the industry could again experience low to mid single digit annual revenue growth rates with highest growth likely to be in MFPs, color lasers and related software solutions and services and the stronger emerging countries. Market trends driving long term growth include: Increased adoption of color and graphics output in business; Advancements in electronic movement of information, driving more pages to be printed by end users when and where it is convenient to do so; Continued convergence in technology between printers, scanners, copiers and fax machines into single, integrated AIO devices; Increasing ability of multi function devices and all in one devices to integrate into process workflow solutions and electronic content management systems; and Advancements in digital photography driving the opportunity to print digital images on distributed output devices. As a result of these market trends, Lexmark has growth opportunities in monochrome laser printers, color lasers, laser MFPs and inkjet AIOs. Color and multifunction products continue to represent a more significant portion of the laser market. The Companys management believes these trends will continue. Industry pricing pressure is partially offset by the tendency of customers to purchase higher value color and multifunction products and optional paper handling and finishing features as well as to purchase output through print and document management software solutions and services that help customers to optimize their document related infrastructure to improve productivity and cost. The inkjet product market historically has been predominantly a consumer market, but there is an increasing trend toward inkjet products being designed for SOHO and other businesses. Advancements in inkjet technology are allowing inkjet devices to print at speeds and with document quality competitive with low end lasers and meeting business standards. Customers are increasingly seeking productivity related features that are found in inkjet multifunction products designed for office use such as wireless and ethernet connectivity, automatic document feeders and duplex capabilities, as well as 25 Table of Contents web based applications to automate print and document related work functions. This trend represents an opportunity for the Company to pursue revenue growth opportunities with its inkjet products and solutions targeted at SOHO and business market segments. While profit margins on printers and MFPs have been negatively affected by competitive pricing pressure, supplies sales are higher margin and recurring. In general, as the hardcopy industry matures and printer and copier markets converge, management expects competitive pressures to continue. Lexmarks dot matrix printers include mature products that require little ongoing investment. The Company expects that the market for these products will continue to decline, and has implemented a strategy to continue to offer high quality products while managing cost to maximize cash flow and profit. Challenges and Risks In recent years, Lexmark and its principal competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and or technological resources than the Company, have regularly lowered prices on printers and are expected to continue to do so. Other challenges and risks faced by Lexmark include: In 2009, the U.S. and other countries around the world experienced significant general economic weakness which impacted the Companys revenue and operating income and any continuation or worsening of economic conditions could impact the Companys future operating results. The Company must compete with its larger competitors for retail shelf space allocated to printers and their associated supplies. New product announcements by the Companys principal competitors can have, and in the past, have had, a material adverse effect on the Companys financial results. With the convergence of traditional printer and copier markets, major laser competitors now include traditional copier companies. The Company sees other competitors and the potential for new entrants into the market possibly having an impact on the Companys growth and market share. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant supplies pricing pressure, but if supplies pricing was to come under significant pressure, the Companys financial results could be materially adversely affected. Refill, remanufactured, clones, counterfeits and other compatible alternatives for some of the Companys cartridges are available and compete with the Companys supplies business. As the installed base of laser and inkjet products matures, the Company expects competitive supplies activity to increase. Lexmark expects that as it competes with larger competitors, the Company may attract more frequent challenges, both legal and commercial, including claims of possible intellectual property infringement. Refer to the section entitled Competition in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of major uncertainties faced by the industry and Company. Additionally, refer to the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of factors that could impact the Companys operating results. Strategy and Initiatives Lexmarks strategy is based on a business model of investing in technology to develop and sell printing solutions, including printers and MFPs, with the objective of growing its installed base, which drives 26 Table of Contents recurring supplies sales. Management believes that Lexmark has the following strengths related to this business model: Lexmark is exclusively focused on delivering distributed printing and imaging, and related document solutions and services. Lexmark internally develops three of the key print technologies associated with distributed printing, including inkjet, monochrome laser and color laser. Lexmark has leveraged its technological capabilities and its commitment to flexibility and responsiveness to build strong relationships with large account customers and channel partners. Lexmarks strategy involves the following core strategic initiatives: Focus on capturing profitable supplies and service annuities generated from workgroup monochrome and color laser printers and laser MFPs; and Shift the ISD strategy to focus on business customers, markets and channels that drive higher page generation and supplies usage. Over the last several years, the Company continues to invest in product and solution development as well as solution sales. This investment has led to new products and solutions aimed at targeted growth segments as well as a pipeline of future products. The Companys strategy for dot matrix printers is to continue to offer high quality products while managing cost to maximize cash flow and profit. Refer to the section entitled Strategy in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of the Companys strategies and initiatives. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Lexmarks discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as disclosures regarding contingencies. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, doubtful accounts, inventories, stock based compensation, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, copyright fees, restructurings, pension and other postretirement benefits, contingencies and litigation, and fair values that are based on unobservable inputs significant to the overall measurement. Lexmark bases its estimates on historical experience, market conditions, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, if different estimates reasonably could have been used, or if changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially impact the financial statements. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for information regarding the Companys policy for revenue recognition. For customer programs and incentives, Lexmark records estimated reductions to revenue at the time of sale for customer programs and incentive offerings including 27 Table of Contents special pricing agreements, promotions and other volume based incentives. Estimated reductions in revenue are based upon historical trends and other known factors at the time of sale. Lexmark also records estimated reductions to revenue for price protection, which it provides to substantially all of its distributor and reseller customers. The amount of price protection is limited based on the amount of dealers and resellers inventory on hand (including in transit inventory) as of the date of the price change. If market conditions were to decline, Lexmark may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings or reduce prices, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. The Company also records estimated reductions to revenue at the time of sale related to its customers right to return product. Estimated reductions in revenue are based upon historical trends of actual product returns as well as the Companys assessment of its products in the channel. Provisions for specific returns from large customers are also recorded as necessary. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts Lexmark maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The Company estimates the allowance for doubtful accounts based on a variety of factors including the length of time receivables are past due, the financial health of its customers, unusual macroeconomic conditions and historical experience. If the financial condition of its customers deteriorates or other circumstances occur that result in an impairment of customers ability to make payments, the Company records additional allowances as needed. Restructuring Lexmark records a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity at its fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred, except for liabilities for certain employee termination benefit charges that are accrued over time. Employee termination benefits associated with an exit or disposal activity are accrued when the obligation is probable and estimable as a postemployment benefit obligation when local statutory requirements stipulate minimum involuntary termination benefits or, in the absence of local statutory requirements, termination benefits to be provided are similar to benefits provided in prior restructuring activities. Employee termination benefits accrued as probable and estimable often require judgment by the Companys management as to the number of employees being separated and the related salary levels, length of employment with the Company and various other factors related to the separated employees that could affect the amount of employee termination benefits being accrued. Such estimates could change in the future as actual data regarding separated employees becomes available. Specifically for termination benefits under a one time benefit arrangement, the timing of recognition and related measurement of a liability depends on whether employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and, if so, whether employees will be retained to render service beyond a minimum retention period. For employees who are not required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits or employees who will not provide service beyond the minimum retention period, the Company records a liability for the termination benefits at the communication date. If employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained to render service beyond the minimum retention period, the Company measures the liability for termination benefits at the communication date and recognizes the expense and liability ratably over the future service period. For contract termination costs, Lexmark records a liability for costs to terminate a contract before the end of its term when the Company terminates the agreement in accordance with the contract terms or when the Company ceases using the rights conveyed by the contract. The liability is recorded at fair value in the period in which it is incurred, taking into account the effect of estimated sublease rentals that could be reasonably obtained which may be different than company specific intentions. 28 Table of Contents Warranty Lexmark provides for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. The amounts accrued for product warranties are based on the quantity of units sold under warranty, estimated product failure rates, and material usage and service delivery costs. The estimates for product failure rates and material usage and service delivery costs are periodically adjusted based on actual results. For extended warranty programs, the Company defers revenue in short term and long term liability accounts (based on the extended warranty contractual period) for amounts invoiced to customers for these programs and recognizes the revenue ratably over the contractual period. Costs associated with extended warranty programs are expensed as incurred. To minimize warranty costs, the Company engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ from the Companys estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability may be required. Inventory Reserves and Adverse Purchase Commitments Lexmark writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value. The Company estimates the difference between the cost of obsolete or unmarketable inventory and its market value based upon product demand requirements, product life cycle, product pricing and quality issues. Also, Lexmark records an adverse purchase commitment liability when anticipated market sales prices are lower than committed costs. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs and adverse purchase commitment liabilities may be required. Pension and Other Postretirement Plans The Companys pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various actuarial assumptions used in calculating such amounts. The non U.S. pension plans are not significant and use economic assumptions similar to the U.S. pension plan, a defined benefit plan. Significant assumptions the Company must review and set annually related to its pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are: Expected long term return on plan assets based on long term historical actual asset return information, the mix of investments that comprise plan assets and future estimates of long term investment returns by reference to external sources. The Company also includes an additional return for active management, when appropriate, and deducts various expenses. Discount rate reflects the rates at which benefits could effectively be settled and is based on current investment yields of high quality fixed income investments. The Company uses a yield curve approach to determine the assumed discount rate in the U.S. based on the timing of the cash flows of the expected future benefit payments. Rate of compensation increase based on the Companys long term plans for such increases. Effective April 2006, this assumption is no longer applicable to the U.S. pension plan due to the benefit accrual freeze in connection with the Companys 2006 restructuring actions. Plan assets are invested in equity securities, government and agency securities, mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, corporate debt, annuity contracts and other securities. The U.S. pension plan comprises a significant portion of the assets and liabilities relating to the Companys pension plans. The investment goal of the U.S. pension plan is to achieve an adequate net investment return in order to provide for future benefit payments to its participants. Asset allocation percentages are targeted to be 65% equity and 35% fixed income investments. The U.S. pension plan employed professional investment managers during 2009 to invest in new asset classes, including international developed equity, emerging market equity, high yield bonds and emerging market debt. Each investment manager operates under an investment 29 Table of Contents management contract that includes specific investment guidelines, requiring among other actions, adequate diversification, prudent use of derivatives and standard risk management practices such as portfolio constraints relating to established benchmarks. The U.S. pension plan currently uses a combination of both active management and passive index funds to achieve its investment goals. The Company has elected to primarily use the market related value of plan assets rather than fair value to determine expense which, under the accounting guidance, allows gains and losses to be recognized in a systematic and rational manner over a period of no more than five years. As a result of this deferral process, for the U.S. pension plan, pension expense was increased by $5 million in 2009 and $4 million in 2010, due to the recognition of the gains and losses for the respective prior five years. The expected increase in the 2010 pension expense for U.S. pension plan would have been approximately $10 million had the Company not deferred the differences between actual and expected asset returns on equity investments. Actual results that differ from assumptions that fall outside the 10% corridor, as defined by accounting guidance on employers accounting for pensions, are accumulated and amortized over the estimated future service period of active plan participants. For 2009, a 25 basis point change in the assumptions for asset return and discount rate would not have had a significant impact on the Companys results of operations. The accounting guidance for employers defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans requires recognition of the funded status of a benefit plan in the statement of financial position and recognition in other comprehensive earnings of certain gains and losses that arise during the period, but are deferred under pension accounting rules. Income Taxes The Company estimates its tax liability based on current tax laws in the statutory jurisdictions in which it operates. These estimates include judgments about deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes, as well as about the realization of deferred tax assets. If the provisions for current or deferred taxes are not adequate, if the Company is unable to realize certain deferred tax assets or if the tax laws change unfavorably, the Company could potentially experience significant losses in excess of the reserves established. Likewise, if the provisions for current and deferred taxes are in excess of those eventually needed, if the Company is able to realize additional deferred tax assets or if tax laws change favorably, the Company could potentially experience significant gains. Under the accounting guidance regarding uncertainty in income taxes, a tax position must meet the minimum recognition threshold of more likely than not before being recognized in the financial statements. The evaluation of a tax position in accordance with this guidance is a two step process. The first step is recognition: The enterprise determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any litigation. The second step is measurement: A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution. Uncertain tax positions at year end 2009 and 2008 were evaluated using the two step process described in the paragraphs above. The Company adopted the guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes on January 1, 2007. As a result, the Company reduced its liability for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties by $7.3 million, which resulted in a corresponding increase in the Companys January 1, 2007 retained earnings balance. The Company also recorded an increase in its deferred tax assets of $8.5 million and a corresponding increase in its liability for unrecognized tax benefits as a result of adoption. 30 Table of Contents Contingencies and Litigation In accordance with FASB guidance on accounting for contingencies, Lexmark records a provision for a loss contingency when management believes that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes it has adequate provisions for any such matters. Copyright Fees Certain countries (primarily in Europe) and or collecting societies representing copyright owners interests have taken action to impose fees on devices (such as scanners, printers and multifunction devices) alleging the copyright owners are entitled to compensation because these devices enable reproducing copyrighted content. Other countries are also considering imposing fees on certain devices. The amount of fees would depend on the number of products sold and the amounts of the fee on each product, which will vary by product and by country. The Company has accrued amounts that represent its best estimate of the copyright fee issues currently pending. Such estimates could change as the litigation and or local legislative processes draw closer to final resolution. Environmental Remediation Obligations Lexmark accrues for losses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such losses are probable and reasonably estimable. In the early stages of a remediation process, particular components of the overall obligation may not be reasonably estimable. In this circumstance, the Company recognizes a liability for the best estimate (or the minimum amount in a range if no best estimate is available) of the cost of the remedial investigation feasibility study, related consultant and external legal fees, and for any other component remediation costs that can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are adjusted as further information develops or circumstances change. Recoveries from other parties are recorded as assets when their receipt is deemed probable. Fair Value The Company currently uses recurring fair value measurements in several areas including marketable securities, pension plan assets and derivatives. The Company uses fair value in measuring certain nonrecurring items as well, as instructed under existing authoritative accounting guidance. Fair value accounting guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. As part of the framework for measuring fair value, the guidance establishes a hierarchy of inputs to valuation techniques used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most observable inputs be used when available. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are: Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access at the measurement date; Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and Level 3 Unobservable inputs used in valuations in which there is little market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date. The Company utilizes observable market data, when available, to determine fair value. However, in certain situations, there may be little or no market data available at the measurement date, thus requiring the use of significant unobservable inputs. To the extent that a valuation is based on models, inputs or assumptions 31 Table of Contents that are less observable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Such measurements are generally classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. Fair value measurements of assets and liabilities are assigned a level within the fair value hierarchy based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. In determining where measurements lie in the fair value hierarchy, the Company uses assumptions regarding the general characteristics of each type of investment as the starting point. The Company then downgrades individual investments to a lower level as necessary based on specific facts and circumstances, such as a security becoming distressed or a decrease in pricing inputs. Uncertainty in the capital markets has presented additional challenges with respect to valuing certain investments the Company holds. In the case of auction rate securities in which auctions were unsuccessful, observable pricing data was not available resulting in the Company performing a discounted cash flow analysis based on assumptions that it believes market participants would use with regard to such items as expected cash flows and discount rates adjusted for liquidity premiums. The Company refined its methodology for valuing its auction rate securities in 2009 and made changes to certain assumptions significant to the valuation including (1) the auction rate market will remain illiquid and auctions will continue to fail causing the interest rate to be the maximum applicable rate and (2) the securities will not be redeemed. These assumptions resulted in discounted cash flow analysis being performed through the legal maturities of these securities, ranging from the year 2032 through 2040, or in the case of the auction rate preferred stock, through the mandatory redemption date of year end 2021. In contrast, at year end 2008, the company assumed redemption dates in the year 2010 for these securities. Though the change in assumptions did result in lower fair values for these securities, the fair value adjustments were not material to the Companys overall marketable securities portfolio. Valuation of these securities as well as a smaller number of distressed debt securities and certain asset backed and mortgaged backed securities can be very subjective. Estimates and assumptions could be revised in the future depending on market conditions and changes in the economy. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance for determining fair value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased and identifying transactions that are not orderly. In response to the guidance, the Company has added additional steps, starting in the second quarter of 2009, to its fair value practices described above with respect to the consensus pricing methodology used in the valuation of most of the securities in which it has invested. The Company has implemented more comprehensive procedures to review the number of pricing inputs received as well as the variability in the pricing data utilized in the overall valuation. For securities in which the number of pricing inputs used is less than expected or there is significant variability in the pricing inputs, the Company has tested that the final consensus price is within a reasonable range of fair value through corroboration with other sources of price data. The Company will likely continue to refine its fair value assurance procedures as it pursues more cost effective methods of obtaining such assurances in the future. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for more information regarding the fair value accounting guidance issued in 2009. Effective January 1, 2009, the Company began applying the valuation concepts of the fair value measurements guidance to its nonrecurring, nonfinancial fair value measurements. These measurements are most often based on inputs or assumptions that are less observable in the market, thus requiring more judgment on the part of the Company in estimating fair value. Determination of the most advantageous market (when no principal market exists) and the highest and best use of an asset from the perspective of market participants can result in fair value measurements that differ from estimates based on the Companys specific intentions for the asset. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for more information regarding the Companys fair value measurements and valuation practices. 32 Table of Contents Other Than Temporary Impairment of Marketable Securities The Company records its investments in marketable securities at fair value through accumulated other comprehensive earnings using the valuation practices discussed in the fair value section above. Once these investments have been marked to market, the Company must assess whether or not its individual unrealized loss positions contain other than temporary impairment (OTTI). If an unrealized position is deemed OTTI, then the unrealized loss, or a portion thereof, must be recognized in earnings. The Companys portfolio is made up almost entirely of debt securities for which OTTI must be recognized in accordance with the FASB OTTI guidance effective in the second quarter of 2009. The model in this guidance requires that an entity recognize OTTI in earnings for the entire unrealized loss position if the entity intends to sell or it is more likely than not the entity will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery of its amortized cost basis. If the entity does not expect to sell the debt security, but the present value of cash flows expected to be collected is less than the amortized cost basis, a credit loss is deemed to exist and OTTI shall be considered to have occurred. However, in this case, the OTTI is separated into two components, the amount representing the credit loss which is recognized in earnings and the amount related to all other factors which is recognized in other comprehensive income under the new guidance. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for more details regarding this guidance. The Companys policy considers various factors in making these two assessments. In determining whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell impaired securities before recovery of net book or carrying values, the Company considers various factors that include: The Companys current cash flow projections, Other sources of funds available to the Company such as borrowing lines, The value of the security relative to the Companys overall cash position, The length of time remaining until the security matures, and The potential that the security will need to be sold to raise capital. If the Company determines that it does not intend to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security, the Company assesses whether it expects to recover the net book or carrying value of the security. The Company makes this assessment based on quantitative and qualitative factors of impaired securities that include a time period analysis on unrealized loss to net book value ratio; severity analysis on unrealized loss to net book value ratio; credit analysis of the securitys issuer based on rating downgrades; and other qualitative factors that may include some or all of the following criteria: The regulatory and economic environment. The sector, industry and geography in which the issuer operates. Forecasts about the issuers financial performance and near term prospects, such as earnings trends and analysts or industry specialists forecasts. Failure of the issuer to make scheduled interest or principal payments. Material recoveries or declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date. Securities that are identified through the analysis using the quantitative and qualitative factors described above are then assessed to determine whether the entire net book value basis of each identified security will be recovered. The Company performs this assessment by comparing the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected from the security with its net book value. If the present value of cash flows expected to be collected is less than the net book value basis of the security, then a credit loss is deemed to exist and an other than temporary impairment is considered to have occurred. There are numerous 33 Table of Contents factors to be considered when estimating whether a credit loss exists and the period over which the debt security is expected to recover, some of which have been highlighted in the preceding paragraph. Given the uncertainty in the current economic environment and the level of judgment required to make the assessments above, the final outcomes of the Companys investments in debt securities could prove to be different than the results reported. Issuers with good credit standings and relatively solid financial conditions may not be able to fulfill their obligations ultimately. Furthermore, the Company could reconsider its decision not to sell a security depending on changes in its own cash flow projections as well as changes in the regulatory and economic environment that may indicate that selling a security is advantageous to the Company. Historically, the Company has incurred a low amount of realized losses from sales of marketable securities. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for more information regarding the Companys marketable securities. Goodwill The Company assesses its goodwill annually or upon the occurrence of a triggering event that leads management to believe it is more likely than not that an impairment exists, such as the market capitalization of the overall Company being less than its carrying value. The Companys goodwill assets are immaterial, and therefore are not separately presented in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The fair value of each reporting unit tested at December 31, 2009 was substantially in excess of its carrying value. Long Lived Assets Lexmark performs reviews for the impairment of long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition are insufficient to recover the carrying value of the assets, then an impairment loss is recognized based upon the excess of the carrying value of the assets over the fair value of the assets. Such an impairment review incorporates estimates of forecasted revenue and costs that may be associated with an asset as well as the expected periods that an asset may be utilized. Fair value is determined based on the highest and best use of the assets considered from the perspective of market participants, which may be different than the Companys actual intended use of the asset. Lexmark also reviews any legal and contractual obligations associated with the retirement of its long lived assets and records assets and liabilities, as necessary, related to such obligations. The asset recorded is amortized over the useful life of the related long lived tangible asset. The liability recorded is relieved when the costs are incurred to retire the related long lived tangible asset. Each obligation is estimated based on current law and technology; accordingly, such estimates could change as the Company periodically evaluates and revises such estimates based on expenditures against established reserves and the availability of additional information. The Companys asset retirement obligations are currently not material to the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operations Overview Key Messages Lexmark is focused on driving long term performance by strategically investing in technology, products and solutions to secure high value product installations and capture profitable supplies and service annuities in document and print intensive segments of the distributed printing market. The PSSD strategy is primarily focused on capturing profitable supplies and service annuities generated from workgroup monochrome and color laser printers and laser MFPs. 34 Table of Contents The ISD strategy is to build a profitable, growing and sustainable inkjet business derived from a more productive and higher page generating installed base of products and solutions that serve SOHO and business users. Lexmark continues to take actions to improve its cost and expense structure including continuing to implement restructuring activities of its business to lower its cost and better allow it to fund these strategic initiatives. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Lexmark continues to maintain a strong financial position with good cash generation and a solid balance sheet, which positions it to prudently invest in the future of the business and successfully compete even during challenging times. 2009 Business Factors The weakness of the global economy impacted revenue and operating income in both of the Companys segments during 2009. Lexmark continued to take actions to reduce cost and expenses worldwide and improve the efficiency of the Companys manufacturing operations and, as a result, the Company announced additional restructuring actions in January, April and October of 2009. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. PSSD During 2009, Lexmark continued its investments in PSSD through new products and technology. With the introduction of new laser products that began in the fall of 2008 and continued through the end of 2009, the Company has announced products that represent the most extensive series of laser product introductions in the Companys history. The new product introductions have significantly strengthened the breadth and depth of the Companys monochrome laser line, color laser line and laser MFPs. ISD The Company undertook a significant shift in ISD strategy that began in 2007 and continued through 2009 that has aggressively shifted the Companys ISD focus to geographic regions, product segments and customers that generate higher page usage. The strategy shift and related initiatives have yielded the following for the Companys ISD segment since 2007: The introduction of new products such as Lexmarks Professional Series, including the introduction in September 2009 of inkjet AIOs (including new Web connected touch screen AIOs) targeted for small and medium businesses; An increasing amount of industry recognition and awards for its inkjet products; and An improvement in the Companys retail presence in U.S. Office Super Stores. By strengthening the Companys focus on the sales of higher end, higher page generating inkjet devices, the longer term ISD objective is to ultimately stabilize and grow supplies revenue based on a smaller installed base of higher page generating devices. 35 Table of Contents Operating Results Summary The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. The following table summarizes the results of the Companys operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: 2009 2008 2007 (Dollars in Millions) Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Revenue $ 3,879 .9 100% $ 4,528 .4 100% $ 4,973 .9 100% Gross profit 1,309 .8 34% 1,534 .6 34% 1,563 .6 31% Operating expense 1,093 .7 28% 1,257 .4 28% 1,242 .3 25% Operating income 216 .1 6% 277 .2 6% 321 .3 6% Net earnings $ 145 .9 4% $ 240 .2 5% $ 300 .8 6% During 2009, total revenue was $3.9 billion or down 14% from 2008. Laser and inkjet supplies revenue decreased 12% year to year (YTY) while laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 22% YTY. In PSSD, revenue decreased 12% YTY while revenue in ISD decreased 19% YTY. During 2008, total revenue was $4.5 billion or down 9% from 2007. Laser and inkjet supplies revenue decreased 4% YTY while laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 20% YTY. In PSSD, revenue decreased 1% YTY while revenue in ISD decreased 22% YTY. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased 39% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income and lower interest and other income/expense, net. Net earnings in 2009 included $141.3 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the execution of the Companys restructuring plans. The Company uses the term project costs for incremental charges related to the execution of its restructuring plans. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased 20% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income and lower interest and other income/expense, net, partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. Net earnings in 2008 included $92.7 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the execution of the Companys restructuring plans. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Net earnings in 2008 also included $11.6 million of non recurring tax benefits. Revenue The following tables provide a breakdown of the Companys revenue by product category, hardware unit shipments and market segment: Revenue by product: (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 % Change 2008 2007 % Change Laser and inkjet printers $ 938.8 $ 1,196.8 (22 )% $ 1,196.8 $ 1,498.3 (20 )% Laser and inkjet supplies 2,751.8 3,117.5 (12 )% 3,117.5 3,248.6 (4 )% Other 189.3 214.1 (12 )% 214.1 227.0 (6 )% Total revenue $ 3,879.9 $ 4,528.4 (14 )% $ 4,528.4 $ 4,973.9 (9 )% Unit shipments: (Units in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Laser units 1.5 1.9 2.1 Inkjet units 4.2 6.6 12.1 36 Table of Contents During 2009, laser and inkjet supplies revenue decreased 12% YTY as the Company experienced declines in both laser and inkjet supplies. Laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 22% primarily due to declines in laser and inkjet units. During 2008, laser and inkjet supplies revenue decreased 4% YTY as growth in laser supplies was more than offset by a decline in inkjet supplies. Laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 20% primarily due to declines in laser and inkjet units. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, one customer, Dell, accounted for $496 million or approximately 13%, $596 million or approximately 13% and $717 million or approximately 14%, of the Companys total revenue, respectively. Sales to Dell are included in both PSSD and ISD. Revenue by division: (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 % Change 2008 2007 % Change PSSD $ 2,624.9 $ 2,981.6 (12 )% $ 2,981.6 $ 2,999.2 (1 )% ISD 1,255.0 1,546.8 (19 )% 1,546.8 1,974.7 (22 )% Total revenue $ 3,879.9 $ 4,528.4 (14 )% $ 4,528.4 $ 4,973.9 (9 )% PSSD During 2009, revenue in PSSD decreased $357 million or 12% compared to 2008 due to a 19% decline in laser hardware revenue as well as a decrease in laser supplies revenue. The lower laser hardware revenue was due to lower unit volume and negative impact of currency, partially offset by a positive mix of workgroup and MFP devices. Laser hardware unit shipments decreased approximately 21% YTY primarily due to lower low end mono laser units, partially offset by unit growth in laser MFPs and single function color devices. Laser hardware AUR, which reflects the changes in both pricing and mix, increased approximately 4% YTY due to a positive product mix shift toward workgroup and MFP devices. During 2008, revenue in PSSD decreased $18 million or 1% compared to 2007 due to a 9% decline in laser hardware revenue, partially offset by growth in laser supplies revenue. The lower laser hardware revenue was due to lower unit volume and aggressive pricing, partially offset by a positive currency impact and positive mix of workgroup and MFP devices. Laser hardware unit shipments decreased approximately 7% YTY primarily due to lower OEM units, partially offset by unit growth in laser MFPs. Laser hardware AUR, which reflects the changes in both pricing and mix, decreased approximately 2% YTY due to aggressive pricing, partially offset by a positive currency impact. ISD During 2009, revenue in ISD decreased $292 million or 19% compared to 2008 due to decreased inkjet hardware and supplies revenue. Hardware revenue declined 28% YTY due to lower unit shipments and negative net price impacts as well as negative foreign currency impacts, partially offset by an improvement in mix toward higher end devices. Management believes supplies revenue declined YTY due to the impact on end user demand of broad global economic weakness and shrinkage in the installed base of inkjet products and an associated decline in end user demand for inkjet supplies. Inkjet hardware unit shipments declined 37% YTY principally due to the Companys decision to prioritize certain markets, segments and customers and to reduce or eliminate others. Inkjet hardware AUR increased 13% YTY due to favorable product mix shift. During 2008, revenue in ISD decreased $428 million or 22% compared to 2007 due to decreased inkjet hardware and supplies revenue. Hardware revenue declined 38% YTY due to lower unit shipments. Management believes supplies revenue declined YTY due to shrinkage in the installed base of inkjet products and an associated decline in end user demand for inkjet supplies. Inkjet hardware unit shipments declined 45% YTY principally due to the Companys decision to prioritize certain markets, segments and customers and to reduce or eliminate others. Units were also impacted by the weakening market and some 37 Table of Contents lost retail shelf space. Inkjet hardware AUR increased 13% YTY due to favorable product mix shift, partially offset by a negative impact of pricing. Revenue by geography: The following table provides a breakdown of the Companys revenue by geography: (Dollars in Millions) 2009 % of Total 2008 % of Total % Change 2008 2007 % of Total % Change United States $ 1,672.1 43 % $ 1,864.8 41 % (10 )% $ 1,864.8 $ 2,140.3 43 % (13 )% EMEA (Europe, the Middle East Africa) 1,453.9 38 % 1,742.9 39 % (17 )% 1,742.9 1,827.2 37 % (5 )% Other International 753.9 19 % 920.7 20 % (18 )% 920.7 1,006.4 20 % (9 )% Total revenue $ 3,879.9 100 % $ 4,528.4 100 % (14 )% $ 4,528.4 $ 4,973.9 100 % (9 )% During 2009, revenue decreased in all geographies due to lower laser and inkjet supplies and hardware revenue. Currency exchange rates had a 3% unfavorable impact on revenue for the year 2009. During 2008, revenue decreased in all geographies primarily due to lower laser and inkjet hardware revenue as well as lower inkjet supplies revenue. Currency exchange rates had a 2% favorable impact on revenue for the year 2008. Gross Profit The following table provides gross profit information: (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change Gross profit dollars $ 1,309.8 $ 1,534.6 (15)% $ 1,534.6 $ 1,563.6 (2)% % of revenue 33.8% 33.9% (0.1)pts 33.9% 31.4% 2.5pts During 2009, consolidated gross profit decreased when compared to the prior year while gross profit as a percentage of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the prior year. The gross profit margin versus the prior period was impacted by a 2.4 percentage point increase due to a favorable mix shift among products, reflecting a lower relative percentage of hardware versus supplies, and a 2.1 percentage point decrease due to product margins as well as a 0.4 percentage point decrease attributable to higher YTY restructuring related actions. Gross profit in 2009 included $51.5 million of restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. During 2008, consolidated gross profit decreased when compared to the prior year while gross profit as a percentage of revenue increased when compared to the prior year. The change in the gross profit margin over the prior period was primarily due to a 5.3 percentage point increase due to a favorable mix shift among products, primarily less inkjet hardware and more laser supplies, partially offset by a 2.3 percentage point decrease due to product margins and a 0.5 percentage point decrease attributable to restructuring related actions, primarily from an increase in accelerated depreciation charges YTY. Gross profit in 2008 included $42.5 million of restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. 38 Table of Contents Operating Expense The following table presents information regarding the Companys operating expenses during the periods indicated: 2009 2008 2007 (Dollars in Millions) Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Research and development $ 375.3 9.7 % $ 423.3 9.3 % $ 403.8 8.1 % Selling, general administrative 647.8 16.7 % 807.3 17.9 % 812.8 16.4 % Restructuring and related charges 70.6 1.8 % 26.8 0.6 % 25.7 0.5 % Total operating expense $ 1,093.7 28.2 % $ 1,257.4 27.8 % $ 1,242.3 25.0 % Research and development decreased in 2009 compared to the prior year primarily due to the Companys efforts to reduce these operating expenses through platform consolidations and increased productivity. Research and development increased in 2008 compared to the prior year primarily due to the Companys investment to support laser product and solution development. Selling, general and administrative (SGA) expenses in 2009 decreased YTY primarily driven by lower selling expenses along with lower general and administrative expenses. SGA expenses in 2008 decreased YTY due to lower general and administrative expenses. The lower SGA expenses for both years were attributable to savings realized from the Companys restructuring actions. Additionally, SGA expenses in 2009 and 2008 included project costs related to the Companys restructuring activities. See discussion below of restructuring related charges and project costs included in the Companys operating expenses for the years presented in the table above. In 2009, the Company incurred $89.8 million of restructuring related charges and project costs due to the Companys restructuring plans. Of the $89.8 million of total restructuring related charges and project costs incurred in 2009, $19.2 million is included in Selling, general and administrative while $70.6 million is included in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. In 2008, the Company incurred $50.2 million of restructuring related charges and project costs due to the Companys restructuring plans. Of the $50.2 million of total restructuring related charges and project costs incurred in 2008, $23.4 million is included in Selling, general and administrative while $26.8 million is included in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. In 2007, the Company incurred $35.0 million of restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring plans. Of the $35.0 million of total restructuring related charges and project costs incurred in 2007, $9.3 million (net of a $3.5 million pre tax gain on the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility) is included in Selling, general and administrative while $25.7 million is included in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion of the Companys restructuring plans. 39 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss) The following table provides operating income by market segment: (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change PSSD $ 379.3 $ 497.1 (24 )% $ 497.1 $ 612.0 (19 )% % of revenue 14.4% 16.7% (2.3 )pts 16.7% 20.4% (3.7 )pts ISD 114.3 137.1 (17 )% 137.1 93.4 47 % % of revenue 9.1% 8.9% 0.2 pts 8.9% 4.7% 4.2 pts All other (277.5 ) (357.0 ) 22 % (357.0 ) (384.1 ) 7 % Total operating income (loss) $ 216.1 $ 277.2 (22 )% $ 277.2 $ 321.3 (14 )% % of total revenue 5.6% 6.1% (0.5 )pts 6.1% 6.5% (0.4 )pts For the year ended December 31, 2009, the decrease in consolidated operating income was due to decreased gross profits partially offset by lower operating expenses. Operating income for PSSD and ISD decreased YTY due to lower supplies revenue reflecting lower volumes, partially offset by lower operating expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the decrease in consolidated operating income was due to decreased gross profits and higher operating expenses. Operating income for PSSD decreased YTY due to higher operating expenses, reflecting higher product development investments, and lower hardware gross profits, reflecting the impact of aggressive pricing as well as a negative impact due to product mix. Operating income for ISD increased YTY due to increased hardware gross margin, due to lower hardware unit sales, and decreased operating expenses, partially offset by lower supplies revenue. During 2009, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs of $64.6 million in PSSD, $44.4 million in ISD and $32.3 million in All other. During 2008, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs of $24.4 million in PSSD, $27.3 million in ISD and $41.0 million in All other. During 2007, the Company incurred restructuring related charges and project costs of $12.1 million in PSSD, $12.2 million in ISD and $27.7 million in All other. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Interest and Other The following table provides interest and other information: (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Interest (income) expense, net $ 21.4 $ (6.1 ) $ (21.2 ) Other (income) expense, net 4.6 7.4 (7.0 ) Net impairment losses on securities 3.1 Total interest and other (income) expense, net $ 29.1 $ 1.3 $ (28.2 ) Total interest and other (income) expense, net, was expense of $29 million in 2009 compared to expense of $1 million in 2008. The 2009 net expense increase YTY was primarily due to lower interest income from declining interest rates on the Companys investments and lower investment balances as well as increased interest expense from the $650 million debt the Company issued in May 2008. Total interest and other (income) expense, net, was expense of $1 million in 2008 compared to income of $28 million in 2007. The 2008 decrease YTY was primarily due to increased interest expense from the $650 million debt the Company issued in May 2008 as well as the $8 million pre tax gain the Company recognized in 2007 from the substantial liquidation of the Companys Scotland entity that did not recur in 2008. Additionally, the Company recognized $8 million in net losses in 2008 related to its marketable securities. 40 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes and Related Matters The Companys effective income tax rate was approximately 22.0%, 12.9% and 13.9% in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for a reconciliation of the Companys effective tax rate to the U.S. statutory rate. The 9.1 percentage point increase of the effective tax rate from 2008 to 2009 was due to a geographic shift in earnings (5.1 percentage points) toward higher tax jurisdictions in 2009 and the reversal of previously accrued taxes (3.1 percentage points) in 2008 that did not recur in 2009, along with a variety of other factors (0.9 percentage points). The 1.0 percentage point reduction of the effective tax rate from 2007 to 2008 was due to a reduction of 5.3 percentage points, primarily related to the geographic shift in earnings to lower tax jurisdictions in 2008, along with a variety of other factors, partially offset by a smaller amount of reversals and adjustments to previously accrued taxes in 2008 (increase of 4.3 percentage points) when compared to reversals and adjustments recorded in 2007. During 2008, the Company reversed $11.6 million of previously accrued taxes principally due to the settlement of the U.S. tax audit for years 2004 and 2005, while in 2007, the Company reversed a total of $29.6 million of previously accrued taxes which pertained to the settlement of a tax audit outside the U.S. and other adjustments to previously recorded tax amounts. Net Earnings Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased 39% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income and lower interest and other income/expense, net. Net earnings in 2009 included $141.3 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities versus $92.7 million in 2008. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased 20% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. Net earnings in 2008 included $92.7 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities versus $52.0 million in 2007. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Net earnings in 2008 also included $12 million of non recurring tax benefits. Net earnings in 2007 included $52.0 million (net of a $3.5 million pre tax gain on the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility) of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Net earnings in 2007 also included an $8.1 million pre tax foreign exchange gain realized upon the substantial liquidation of the Companys Scotland entity and $29 million of non recurring tax benefits. Earnings per Share The following table summarizes basic and diluted net earnings per share: 2009 2008 2007 Net earnings per share: Basic $ 1.87 $ 2.70 $ 3.16 Diluted 1.86 2.69 3.14 For the year ended December 31, 2009, the decreases in basic and diluted net earnings per share YTY were attributable to decreased earnings partially offset by the decreases in the average number of shares outstanding. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the decreases in basic and diluted net earnings per share YTY were attributable to decreased earnings partially offset by the decreases in the average number of shares outstanding, primarily due to the Companys stock repurchases. 41 Table of Contents RESTRUCTURING AND RELATED CHARGES AND PROJECT COSTS Summary of Restructuring Impacts The Companys 2009 financial results are impacted by its ongoing restructuring plans and related projects and are discussed in further detail below. Project costs consist of additional charges related to the execution of the restructuring plans. These project costs are incremental to the Companys normal operating charges and are expensed as incurred, and include such items as compensation costs for overlap staffing, travel expenses, consulting costs and training costs. The table below summarizes the 2009 financial impacts of the Companys restructuring plans and related projects. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred charges, including project costs, of $141.3 million for the Companys restructuring plans as follows: 2009 Actions* 2008 Action 2007 Action 2006 Action Restructuring Restructuring Restructuring Restructuring related related related related Charges Charges Charges Charges Project (In Millions) (Note 4) (Note 4) (Note 4) (Note 4) Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 41.2 $ (1.5 ) $ 1.8 $ $ 10.1 $ 51.6 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 66.7 3.1 (0.6 ) 19.1 88.3 Contract termination and lease charges 1.0 0.4 1.4 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 108.9 $ (1.5 ) $ 5.3 $ (0.6 ) $ 29.2 $ 141.3 * Amounts represent a combined total for all 2009 Restructuring Actions. Please see below for separate details regarding each plan. The Company incurred $51.5 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs in Cost of revenue and $0.1 million in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Total employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges of $70.6 million are included in Restructuring and related charges while $19.1 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to its restructuring plans of $64.6 million in PSSD, $44.4 million in ISD and $32.3 million in All other. In the first quarter of 2010, the Company expects savings of approximately $55 million from the 2007, 2008 and 2009 restructuring actions. In 2010 due to the 2009 restructuring actions, the Company expects restructuring and related costs and expenses to be approximately $65 million, with $17 million expected to be incurred in the first quarter. October 2009 Restructuring Plan General As part of Lexmarks ongoing plans to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of all of our operations, the Company announced restructuring actions (the October 2009 Restructuring Plan) on October 20, 2009. The Company continues its focus on refining its selling and service organization, reducing its general and administrative expenses, consolidating its cartridge manufacturing capacity, and enhancing the efficiency of its supply chain infrastructure. The actions taken will reduce cost and expense across the organization, with a focus in manufacturing and supply chain, service delivery overhead, marketing and sales support, corporate overhead and development positions as well as reducing cost through consolidation of facilities in supply chain and cartridge manufacturing. The Company expects these actions to be principally completed by the end of the first quarter of 2011. 42 Table of Contents The October 2009 Restructuring Plan is expected to impact about 825 positions worldwide and should result in total pre tax charges of approximately $120 million. Charges of $63.5 million were incurred in 2009, with approximately $56.5 million expected to be incurred in 2010 2011. The company expects the total cash cost of this plan to be approximately $105 million. Lexmark expects the October 2009 Restructuring Plan to generate savings of approximately $70 million in 2010, and ongoing savings beginning in 2011 of approximately $110 million. These ongoing savings should be split approximately 60% to operating expense and 40% to cost of goods sold. Ongoing cash savings of approximately $105 million are expected beginning in 2011. Impact to 2009 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred charges of $63.5 million for the October 2009 Restructuring Plan as follows: October 2009 Restructuring related Charges Project (In Millions) (Note 4) Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 6.2 $ 0.9 $ 7.1 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 52.4 3.0 55.4 Contract termination and lease charges 1.0 1.0 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 59.6 $ 3.9 $ 63.5 The Company incurred $7.1 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs in Cost of revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Employee termination benefit charges of $52.4 million and contract termination and lease charges of $1.0 million are included in Restructuring and related charges, and $3.0 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the October 2009 Restructuring Plan of $47.0 million in PSSD, $4.2 million in ISD and $12.3 million in All other. Liability Rollforward The following table represents a rollforward of the liability incurred for employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges in connection with the October 2009 Restructuring Plan. Of the total $50.9 million restructuring liability, $23.6 million is included in Accrued liabilities and $27.3 million is included in Other liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Employee Contract Termination Termination Benefits Lease Charges Total Balance at January 1, 2009 $ $ $ Costs incurred 51.5 1.0 52.5 Payments Other (1) (1.5 ) (1.5 ) Reversals (2) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Balance at December 31, 2009 $ 49.9 $ 1.0 $ 50.9 (1) Other consists of changes in the liability balance due to foreign currency translations. (2) Reversals due to changes in estimates for employee termination benefits 43 Table of Contents April 2009 Restructuring Plan General As part of Lexmarks ongoing plan to consolidate manufacturing capacity and reduce costs and expenses worldwide, the Company announced on April 21, 2009 the planned closure of its inkjet cartridge manufacturing facility in Juarez, Mexico by the end of the first quarter of 2010 as well as the continued restructuring of its worldwide workforce (the April 2009 Restructuring Plan). The April 2009 Restructuring Plan is expected to impact about 360 positions worldwide, with approximately 270 coming from the closure of the facility in Juarez, Mexico. The Company expects the April 2009 Restructuring Plan will result in total pre tax charges of approximately $50.0 million with cash costs estimated at $10.0 million. The Company expects the April 2009 Restructuring Plan to be substantially completed by the end of the second quarter of 2010 and currently expects total 2010 savings of more than $20.0 million. Impact to 2009 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred charges of $44.3 million for the April 2009 Restructuring Plan as follows: April 2009 Restructuring related Charges (In Millions) (Note 4) Project Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 34.7 $ 2.3 $ 37.0 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 5.9 1.4 7.3 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 40.6 $ 3.7 $ 44.3 The Company incurred $37.0 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs in Cost of revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Total employee termination benefit charges of $5.9 million are included in Restructuring and related charges, and $1.4 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the April 2009 restructuring plan of $4.2 million in PSSD, $39.0 million in ISD and $1.1 million in All other. Liability Rollforward The following table represents a rollforward of the liability incurred for employee termination benefits in connection with the April 2009 Restructuring Plan. The liability is included in Accrued liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Employee Termination Benefits Balance at January 1, 2009 $ Costs incurred 6.4 Payments Other (1) (4.5 ) Reversals (2) (0.6 ) Balance at December 31, 2009 $ 1.3 (1) Other consists of changes in the liability balance due to foreign currency translations. (2) Reversals due to changes in estimates for employee termination benefits 44 Table of Contents 2009 Restructuring Plan General In response to global economic weakening, the Company announced a restructuring plan (the 2009 Restructuring Plan) on January 13, 2009. The 2009 Restructuring Plan impacted about 375 positions through the end of 2009. The areas impacted include general and administrative functions, supply chain and sales support, research and development program consolidation, as well as marketing and sales management. Expected savings are $50.0 million per year, with approximately 95% of the savings expected to benefit operating expense, and the remaining 5% will impact cost of sales. The 2009 Restructuring Plan was substantially completed by the end of 2009. Impact to 2009 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred charges of $23.8 million for the 2009 Restructuring Plan as follows: 2009 Action Restructuring related Charges (In Millions) (Note 4) Project Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 0.3 $ 4.1 $ 4.4 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 8.4 11.0 19.4 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 8.7 $ 15.1 $ 23.8 The Company incurred $4.4 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs in Cost of revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Total employee termination benefit charges of $8.4 million are included in Restructuring and related charges, and $11.0 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan of $10.9 million in PSSD, $1.5 million in ISD and $11.4 million in All other. Impact to 2008 Financial Results The Company incurred charges of $20.2 million related to employee termination benefits in the fourth quarter of 2008 because the charges were probable and estimable for the 2008 year end reporting period. Including the $20.2 million charge in 2008, the Company has incurred $44.0 million of total charges for the 2009 Restructuring Plan. 45 Table of Contents Liability Rollforward The following table represents a rollforward of the liability incurred for employee termination benefits in connection with the 2009 Restructuring Plan. The liability is included in Accrued liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Employee Termination Benefits Balance at January 1, 2008 $ Costs incurred 20.7 Payments other (1) (0.5 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 20.2 Costs incurred 9.8 Payments other (1) (21.0 ) Reversals (2) (2.1 ) Balance at December 31, 2009 $ 6.9 (1) Other consists of changes in the liability balance due to foreign currency translations. (2) Reversals due to changes in estimates for employee termination benefits 2008 Restructuring Plan General To enhance the efficiency of the Companys inkjet cartridge manufacturing operations, the Company announced the 2008 Restructuring Plan on July 22, 2008 that resulted in the closure of one of the Companys inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Mexico. The 2008 Restructuring Plan was substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of 2009 and any remaining charges to be incurred will be immaterial. Impact to 2009 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2009 the Company reversed $1.5 million of previously accrued accelerated depreciation costs recorded incorrectly, and incurred project costs of $1.9 million. The accelerated depreciation reversal and related project costs are included in Cost of revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings and were incurred in ISD. Impact to 2008 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred charges of $22.8 million for the 2008 Restructuring Plan as follows: 2008 Action Restructuring related Charges (In Millions) (Note 4) Project Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 18.0 $ 1.8 $ 19.8 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 3.0 3.0 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 21.0 $ 1.8 $ 22.8 The $19.8 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs are included in Cost of revenue, and the $3.0 million of total employee termination benefit charges are included in Restructuring and related charges on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The Company incurred $22.7 million in ISD and $0.1 million in All other. 46 Table of Contents Liability Rollforward As of December 31, 2009, the Company had no remaining liability balance for employee termination benefits in connection with the 2008 Restructuring Plan. 2007 Restructuring Plan General On October 23, 2007, the Company announced the 2007 Restructuring Plan which included: Closing one of the Companys inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Mexico and additional optimization measures at the remaining inkjet facilities in Mexico and the Philippines; Reducing the Companys business support cost and expense structure by further consolidating activity globally and expanding the use of shared service centers in lower cost regions the areas impacted are supply chain, service delivery, general and administrative expense, as well as marketing and sales support functions; and Focusing consumer segment marketing and sales efforts into countries or geographic regions that have the highest supplies usage. The 2007 Restructuring Plan was substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company incurred $3.9 million in additional restructuring related charges as a result of revisions in previous estimates. The Company expects any remaining charges related to the 2007 Restructuring Plan to be immaterial. Impact to 2009 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred charges of $9.9 million for the 2007 Restructuring Plan as follows: 2007 Action Restructuring related Charges (In Millions) (Note 4) Project Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 1.8 $ 0.9 $ 2.7 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 3.1 3.7 6.8 Contract termination and lease charges 0.4 0.4 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 5.3 $ 4.6 $ 9.9 For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred $2.6 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs in Cost of revenue, and $0.1 million of accelerated depreciation charges in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The $3.5 million of total employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges are included in Restructuring and related charges, and the $3.7 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges (reversals) of $3.1 million in PSSD, $(0.7) million in ISD and $7.5 million in All other. The $(0.7) million represents a reversal of previously accrued accelerated depreciation costs that were incorrectly recorded. 47 Table of Contents Impact to 2008 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred a total of $50.3 million for the 2007 Restructuring Plan as presented below: 2007 Action Restructuring related Charges (In Millions) (Note 4) Project Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 17.3 $ 13.5 $ 30.8 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs (0.7 ) 15.3 14.6 Contract termination and lease charges 4.9 4.9 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 21.5 $ 28.8 $ 50.3 $22.7 million and $8.1 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs are included in Cost of revenue and Selling, general and administrative, respectively, on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The $4.2 million of total employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges are included in Restructuring and related charges, while the $15.3 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to its 2007 Restructuring Plan of $9.2 million in PSSD, $2.9 million in ISD, and $38.2 million in All other. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company sold one of its inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Juarez, Mexico for $4.6 million and recognized a $1.1 million pre tax gain on the sale that is included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The $15.3 million of project costs is the net amount incurred after including the gain recognized on the sale. Impact to 2007 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred charges of $34.2 million for the 2007 Restructuring Plan as follows: 2007 Action Restructuring related Charges (In Millions) (Note 4) Project Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 5.1 $ 0.8 $ 5.9 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 25.7 2.6 28.3 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 30.8 $ 3.4 $ 34.2 The Company incurred $5.9 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs in Cost of revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. $25.7 million of total employee termination benefit charges are included in Restructuring and related charges while $2.6 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs of $6.4 million in PSSD, $14.9 million in ISD and $12.9 million in All other. Liability Rollforward The following table presents a rollforward of the liability incurred for employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges in connection with the 2007 Restructuring Plan. The ending liability of $12.0 million is included in Accrued liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Of the $16.2 million restructuring liability on December 31, 2008, $14.9 million is included in 48 Table of Contents Accrued liabilities and $1.3 million is included in Other liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Employee Contract Termination Termination Benefits Lease Charges Total Balance at January 1, 2008 $ 21.1 $ $ 21.1 Costs incurred 7.1 4.9 12.0 Payments other (1) (8.3 ) (0.7 ) (9.0 ) Reversals (2) (7.9 ) (7.9 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 12.0 $ 4.2 $ 16.2 Costs incurred 3.9 0.4 4.3 Payments other (1) (4.3 ) (3.4 ) (7.7 ) Reversals (2) (0.8 ) (0.8 ) Balance at December 31, 2009 $ 10.8 $ 1.2 $ 12.0 (1) Other consists of changes in the liability balance due to foreign currency translations. (2) Reversals due to changes in estimates for employee termination benefits. 2006 Restructuring Plan During the first quarter of 2006, the Company approved a plan to restructure its workforce, consolidate manufacturing capacity and make certain changes to its U.S. retirement plans (collectively referred to as the 2006 actions). Except for approximately 100 positions that were eliminated in 2007, activities related to the 2006 actions were substantially completed at the end of 2006. Impact to 2009 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company reversed $0.6 million of previously accrued employee termination benefits. The reversal is included in Restructuring and related charges on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings and was incurred in PSSD. Impact to 2008 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company reversed $1.5 million of previously accrued employee termination benefits and accrued an additional $0.9 million of contract termination and lease charges due to a revision in assumptions based on current economic conditions. The net reversal is included in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Of the net $0.6 million reversed in 2008, the Company recognized $(0.3) million in PSSD and $(0.3) million in All other. Impact to 2007 Financial Results During the first quarter of 2007, the Company sold its Rosyth, Scotland facility for $8.1 million and recognized a $3.5 million pre tax gain on the sale that is included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. During the second quarter of 2007, the Company substantially liquidated the remaining operations of its Scotland entity and recognized an $8.1 million pre tax gain from the realization of the entitys accumulated foreign currency translation adjustment generated on the investment in the entity during its operating life. This gain is included in Other (income) expense, net on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred approximately $17.8 million of project costs related to the Companys 2006 actions. The $17.8 million of project costs is the net amount incurred after including the gain recognized on the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility during the first quarter of 49 Table of Contents 2007. Of the $17.8 million of 2006 project costs incurred, $11.1 million is included in Cost of revenue and $6.7 million in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred total pre tax 2006 project costs of $5.7 million in PSSD and $14.8 million in All other, while ISD realized a $2.7 million net benefit after the sale of the Rosyth, Scotland facility. Liability Rollforward As of December 31, 2009, the Company had a liability balance of $1.2 million related to contract termination and lease charges in connection with the 2006 actions. Of the total $1.2 million restructuring liability, $0.5 million is included in Accrued liabilities and $0.7 million is included in Other liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT PLANS The following table provides the total pre tax cost related to Lexmarks pension and other postretirement plans for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007. Cost amounts are included as an addition to the Companys cost and expense amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Total cost of pension and other postretirement plans $ 41.2 $ 37.0 $ 40.2 Comprised of: Defined benefit pension plans $ 20.3 $ 11.4 $ 13.2 Defined contribution plans 21.4 25.1 25.8 Other postretirement plans (0.5 ) 0.5 1.2 The increase in the cost of the defined benefit pension plans in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to curtailment losses recognized on restructuring related activity in the U.S. The decrease in the cost of defined contribution plans in 2009 compared to 2008 was mainly due to a reduction in the number of participants in the U.S. plan. Changes in actuarial assumptions did not have a significant impact on the Companys results of operations in 2008 and 2009, nor are they expected to have a material effect in 2010. Future effects of retirement related benefits on the operating results of the Company depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates and investment performance. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement plans. In 2008, there was a significant decline in the value of pension plan assets primarily resulting from a large decline in equity markets. Because the Company defers current year differences between actual and expected asset returns on equity investments over the subsequent five years in accordance with prescribed accounting guidelines, the impact to 2009 pension expense was only $5 million. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act) was enacted on August 17, 2006. Most of its provisions became effective in 2008. The Act significantly changed the funding requirements for single employer defined benefit pension plans. The funding requirements are now largely based on a plans calculated funded status, with faster amortization of any shortfalls. The Act directs the U.S. Treasury Department to develop a new yield curve to discount pension obligations for determining the funded status of a plan when calculating the funding requirements. The provisions of the Act resulted in the need for additional funding in 2009 of $73 million in the first quarter in the U.S. 50 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Financial Position Lexmarks financial position remains strong at December 31, 2009, with working capital of $949 million compared to $805 million at December 31, 2008. The $144 million increase in working capital accounts was primarily due to the $180 million increase in cash and cash equivalents as discussed below. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the Company had senior note debt of $648.9 million and $648.7 million, respectively. The Company issued $650 million of new long term debt in 2008, but used a large portion of the proceeds to repurchase shares during the second half of 2008. The Company also repaid $5.5 million of other short term borrowings in 2009 that were outstanding at December 31, 2008. The Company had no amounts outstanding under its U.S. trade receivables financing program or its revolving credit facility at December 31, 2009, or December 31, 2008. The debt to total capital ratio was 39% at December 31, 2009, compared to 45% at December 31, 2008. Liquidity The following table summarizes the results of the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years indicated: (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Net cash flows provided by (used for): Operating activities $ 402.2 $ 482.1 $ 564.2 Investing activities (228.2 ) (427.6 ) (287.4 ) Financing activities 3.8 (48.1 ) (147.0 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 2.3 (4.2 ) 2.6 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 180.1 $ 2.2 $ 132.4 The Companys primary source of liquidity has been cash generated by operations, which totaled $402 million, $482 million and $564 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Cash from operations generally has been sufficient to allow the Company to fund its working capital needs and finance its capital expenditures during these periods along with the repurchase of approximately $0.6 billion and $0.2 billion of its Class A Common Stock during 2008 and 2007, respectively. There were no share repurchases in 2009. Management believes that cash provided by operations will continue to be sufficient to meet operating and capital needs for the next twelve months. However, in the event that cash from operations is not sufficient, the Company has a substantial cash and short term marketable securities balance and other potential sources of liquidity through utilization of its accounts receivable financing program, revolving credit facility (new agreement in third quarter of 2009) or other financing sources as discussed below. As of December 31, 2009, the Company held $1.13 billion in cash and current marketable securities. Operating activities Economic conditions impacted the Companys revenue and profitability in 2009, as well as impacting cash flow. First quarter 2009 cash flow was negative reflecting negative working capital performance and global pension contributions of $78.6 million. However, the fourth quarter of 2009 marked the third consecutive quarter of sequential improvement in cash generation. In addition, fourth quarter 2009 earnings showed significant recovery from weak levels earlier in 2009 and cash flows from operating activities were strong at $256.6 million. Although the Company continues to generate significant annual cash flow from operations, the amounts generated have trended downward since 2006. The $79.9 million decrease in cash flows from operating activities from 2008 to 2009 was driven by the following factors. 51 Table of Contents Changes in Trade receivables balances contributed $148.2 million to the decrease in cash flow from operating activities from 2008 to 2009. Trade receivables decreased $150.5 million during 2008 compared to a decrease of $2.3 million in 2009. During 2008, collections performance and days sales outstanding improved significantly, reducing the trade receivables balance. During 2009, the Company maintained this improved performance in days sales outstanding, as indicated in the days of sales outstanding measurements included in the section to follow. Fourth quarter revenue in 4Q09 was only slightly below 4Q08. Net earnings decreased $94.3 million for full year 2009 as compared to full year 2008. Challenging economic conditions negatively impacted the Companys profitability during the first part of 2009 as well as the operating cash flows that were ultimately realized. Additionally, pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs increased $49 million full year 2009 compared to full year 2008 which also had a negative impact on the Companys profitability. However, many of these charges were either non cash charges or accruals of expenses not yet paid by the Company and therefore had a smaller impact on cash flow from operations than on Net earnings. Lower Net earnings was also impacted by the increase in certain non cash charges which have no impact to cash flows from operations, such as deferred income tax adjustments. The activities above were partially offset by the following factors. The reduction in Inventories balances was $55.1 million more in 2009 compared to that of 2008, $46.6 million for PSSD inventories and $8.5 million for ISD inventories. Inventories decreased $81.2 million during 2009 and $26.1 million during 2008. The larger decrease in 2009 was driven by the Companys increased focus on inventory management, particularly actions initiated during the second quarter of 2009 to significantly reduce the production of supplies and purchases of printers, which lowered the Companys purchases during the period. These actions were taken in response to the challenging economic conditions that negatively impacted the Company in the first quarter of 2009. The benefit of these actions was maintained by the Company through fourth quarter of 2009 accompanied by stronger than expected sales. The reduction in Accounts payable balances was $32.3 million less in 2009 compared to that of 2008. Accounts payable decreased $47.8 million during 2009 and $80.1 million during 2008. The smaller reduction in 2009 was driven by the increase in demand in the fourth quarter of 2009, as well as favorable payment terms implemented in the third quarter of 2009. The decrease in Accrued liabilities and Other assets and liabilities, collectively, was $30.1 million less in 2009 compared to that of 2008, of which the largest single factor was income taxes. Income tax payments, net of refunds received, were $41.3 million in 2009 compared to $97.8 million in 2008, a YTY decrease in income taxes paid of $56.5 million. In 2009, the Company received approximately $25 million of refunds from the IRS related to prior year tax payments. In 2008, the Company made a $21.8 million payment to the IRS in settlement of the 2004 2005 income tax audit. In addition to income taxes, there were various other items that contributed to the favorable YTY movement in Accrued liabilities and Other assets and liabilities including both cash transactions as well as the effect of accruals of expected future operating cash receipts and payments. Other notable cash transactions, though offset by other activities, included pension and postretirement funding and Germany copyright fee payments made in 2009. The Company made $92.4 million of pension and postretirement payments in 2009 compared to $6.6 million in 2008 driven by the steep decline in the fair value of pension plan assets in late 2008. The Company anticipates funding an additional amount of approximately $20 million in 2010. Looking forward, the Company is currently assuming pension and postretirement funding requirements for 2011 and 2012 of $30 million to $35 million per year based on factors that were present as of December 31, 2009. Actual future pension and postretirement funding requirements beyond 2010 will be impacted by various factors, including actual pension asset returns and interest rates used for discounting future liabilities. The Company also made a $43 million payment to German collection societies in the third quarter of 2009 in settlement of copyright fees levied on all in one and multifunctional devices sold in Germany after December 31, 2001 through December 31, 2007. 52 Table of Contents Refer to the contractual cash obligations in the pages that follow for additional information regarding items that will likely impact the Companys future cash flows. The $82.1 million decrease in cash flows from operating activities from 2007 to 2008 was driven by the following factors. The reduction in Accounts payable was $80.1 million in 2008 compared to the $36.6 million increase in 2007. The unfavorable YTY change of $116.7 million was largely due to the timing of vendor payments. In 2007, the Company was able to lengthen the cycle in which it pays its vendors compared to that of 2006. This resulted in a larger year end 2007 Accounts payable balance, which was then paid in 2008 resulting in the unfavorable YTY movement. Additionally, at year end 2008, demand had decreased due to increasingly difficult economic conditions compared to 2007. The decrease in Accrued liabilities and Other assets and liabilities collectively was $63.5 million in 2008 compared to the increase in 2007 of $46.7 million. The YTY $110.2 million unfavorable impact to the Companys cash flows was due to many factors. Notable YTY fluctuations in cash outflows included $21.7 million of additional cash paid for income taxes, $97.8 million paid in 2008 compared to $76.1 million in 2007, as well as $14.3 million of additional cash paid for interest, $26.9 million paid in 2008 compared to $12.6 million paid in 2007 due to the higher level of debt in 2008. The activities above were partially offset by Trade receivables activity. Trade receivables decreased $150.5 million in 2008 compared to a decrease of only $5.5 million in 2007. The favorable YTY fluctuation of $145.0 million was driven by collections. As indicated in the cash conversion days table in the section below, days of sales outstanding decreased 4 days from year end 2007 to year end 2008 due to improvements in delinquency as well as the geographic shift in sales to faster collecting countries. Cash Conversion Days 2009 2008 2007 Days of sales outstanding 36 36 40 Days of inventory 47 51 48 Days of payables 67 65 66 Cash conversion days 16 22 22 Cash conversion days represent the number of days that elapse between the moment the Company pays for materials and the day it collects cash from its customers. Cash conversion days are equal to days of sales outstanding plus days of inventory less days of payables. The days of sales outstanding are calculated using the year end trade receivables, net of allowances, and the average daily revenue for the quarter. The days of inventory are calculated using the year end net inventories balance and the average daily cost of revenue for the quarter. The days of payables are calculated using the year end accounts payable balance and the average daily cost of revenue for the quarter. Please note that cash conversion days presented above may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other registrants. Investing activities The Company decreased its marketable securities investments in 2009 by $24.2 million. The Company increased its marketable securities investments by $210.6 million and $112.9 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company did not increase its marketable securities investments in 2009 due to the decrease in cash flows from operations as well as the conservative investment policies pursued during 2009. Additionally, the Company made certain payments from available cash during 2009, such as 53 Table of Contents pension contributions and the German copyright settlement discussed previously, that did not allow the Company to invest these funds in marketable securities during the year. The YTY variations in cash flows (used for) provided by investing activities were driven by the Companys marketable securities investment activities as well as the increase in capital expenditures discussed below. The Companys investments in marketable securities are classified and accounted for as available for sale. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the Companys marketable securities portfolio consisted of asset backed and mortgage backed securities, corporate debt securities, preferred and municipal debt securities, U.S. government and agency debt securities, international government, commercial paper and certificates of deposit. The Companys auction rate securities, valued at $22.0 million and $24.7 at year end 2009 and 2008, respectively, are reported in the noncurrent assets section of the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recognized $2.7 million in net losses on its marketable securities, including $3.3 million for other than temporary impairment (OTTI) of debt securities. Of the total OTTI charges, $3.1 million were recorded in Net Impairment Losses on Securities and calculated in accordance with the new FASB OTTI guidance and $0.2 million were recognized in Other (income) expense, net in the first quarter of 2009 as determined under the prior OTTI guidance. The Company assesses its marketable securities for other than temporary declines in value in accordance with the new model provided under the FASBs amended guidance, which was adopted in the second quarter of 2009. The Company has disclosed in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates portion of Managements Discussion and Analysis its policy regarding the factors it considers and significant judgments made in applying the new guidance. Of the $3.1 million total above, approximately $1.2 million were related to Lehman Brothers debt securities credit losses and $1.4 million represent credit losses recognized for one of the Companys municipal auction rate securities. It should be noted that all of the 2009 charges related to Lehman Brothers and $0.7 million of the 2009 charge related to the municipal auction rate security are recycled charges that were recognized in 2008 and partially reversed through Retained earnings on April 1, 2009 in the transition adjustment required under the amended FASB OTTI guidance. The majority, but not all, of the OTTI charges in 2009 were related to assets deemed Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy and are included in the Level 3 disclosures provided in Part II, Item 8, Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, at December 31, 2009, the Company recognized a cumulative, pre tax valuation allowance of $0.9 million included in Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, representing a temporary impairment of the overall portfolio. The pre tax valuation allowance consists of gross unrealized losses of $4.4 million, primarily related to certain asset backed and mortgage backed securities and auction rate securities, offset partially by $3.5 million of gross unrealized holding gains related to various types of securities. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized $7.9 million in net losses on its marketable securities, including $7.3 million for other than temporary impairment of debt securities held by the Company on December 31, 2008, under the OTTI accounting guidance effective at that time. In 2008 there were several significant market events, including the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings and the failed auctions of many of the Companys auction rate securities. In 2008, Lexmark transferred its Lehman Brothers corporate debt securities into the Level 3 category of the fair value hierarchy, and subsequently took a charge of $4.4 million based on the estimated fair value of the investments determined from indicative pricing sources. Additionally in 2008, the Company recognized a $1.9 million charge for other than temporary impairment in connection with its auction rate fixed income securities; the fair value of which was determined using an internal discount cash flow valuation model discussed later in this section. The Company also incurred another $1.0 million of charges related to other than temporary impairments of certain distressed corporate debt, mortgage backed and asset backed securities. The $7.3 million in total losses were recognized in Other (income) expense, net on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings and included in the Companys Level 3 rollforward table in Part II, Item 8, Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, at December 31, 2008, the Company recognized a cumulative, pre tax valuation allowance of $1.7 million included in Accumulated 54 Table of Contents other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, representing a temporary impairment of the overall portfolio. The pre tax valuation allowance consists of gross unrealized losses of $8.2 million, primarily related to asset backed and mortgage backed securities and corporate debt securities, offset partially by $6.5 million of gross unrealized holding gains related mostly to US government and agency securities. Specifically regarding the Companys auction rate securities, as discussed in the preceding paragraph, Lexmark has recognized OTTI on only one security due to credit events involving the issuer and the insurer. Because of the Companys liquidity position, it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the auction rate securities until liquidity in the market or optional issuer redemption occurs. The Company could also hold the securities to maturity if it chooses. Additionally, if Lexmark required capital, the Company has available liquidity through its accounts receivable program and revolving credit facility (new agreement in third quarter of 2009). Given these circumstances, the Company would only have to recognize OTTI on its auction rate securities if the present value of the expected cash flows is less than the amortized cost of the individual security. Since reclassifying to noncurrent assets the securities that did not auction successfully at the end of the first quarter 2008, approximately $41 million of auction rate fixed income securities have been either sold or redeemed at par. There have been no realized losses from the sale or redemption of auction rate securities. Fair value measurement of marketable securities Recent events have led to an increased focus on fair value accounting, including the practices companies utilize to value financial instruments. The Company uses multiple third parties to provide the fair values of the marketable securities in which Lexmark is invested, though the valuation of its investments is the responsibility of the Company. The Company has performed a reasonable level of due diligence in the way of documenting the pricing methodologies used by the third parties as well as a limited amount of sampling and testing of the valuations. Most of the Companys securities are valued using a consensus price method, whereby prices from a variety of industry data providers (multiple quotes) are input into a distribution curve based algorithm to determine daily market values. At December 31, 2009, pricing inputs for securities were provided and compared to the overall valuation for reasonableness. The Company then took a closer look at the number of pricing inputs received for each security as well as the variability in the pricing data utilized in the overall valuation of each security. For securities in which the number of pricing inputs used was less than expected or there was significant variability in the pricing inputs, the Company tested that the final consensus price was within a reasonable range of fair value through corroboration with other sources of price data. In limited instances, the Company has adjusted the fair values provided by a third party service provider in order to better reflect the risk adjustments that market participants would make for nonperformance and liquidity risks. Level 3 fair value measurements are based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall valuation. Level 3 recurring fair value measurements at December 31, 2009 included auction rate securities for which recent auctions were unsuccessful, valued at $22.0 million, as well as certain distressed debt securities and other asset backed and mortgage backed securities valued at $3.4 million. The auction rate securities were made up of student loan revenue bonds valued at $13.7 million, municipal sewer and airport revenue bonds valued at $4.9 million, and auction preferred stock valued at $3.4 million at year end 2009. Level 3 fair value measurements at December 31, 2008 included auction rate securities for which recent auctions were unsuccessful, valued at $24.7 million, certain distressed debt instruments valued at $0.8 million, and other thinly traded corporate debt securities and mortgage backed securities valued at $0.6 million. The auction rate securities were made up of student loan revenue bonds valued at $14.6 million, municipal sewer and airport revenue bonds valued at $6.2 million, and auction rate preferred stock valued at $3.9 million. Level 3 recurring fair value measurements were approximately 4% of the Companys total available for sale marketable securities portfolio at both December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. The valuation techniques for the Companys most significant Level 3 fair value measurements are discussed in the paragraphs to follow. 55 Table of Contents For year end 2009, the Companys auction rate securities for which recent auctions were unsuccessful were valued using a more refined discounted cash flow model that places greater emphasis on the characteristics of the individual securities, which the Company believes yields a better estimate of fair value. The first step in the valuation included a credit analysis of the security which considered various factors including the credit quality of the issuer (and insurer if applicable), the instruments position within the capital structure of the issuing authority, and the composition of the authoritys assets including the effect of insurance and or government guarantees. Next, the future cash flows of the instruments were projected based on certain assumptions significant to the valuation including (1) the auction rate market will remain illiquid and auctions will continue to fail causing the interest rate to be the maximum applicable rate and (2) the securities will not be redeemed. These assumptions resulted in discounted cash flow analysis being performed through the legal maturities of these securities, ranging from the year 2032 through 2040, or in the case of the auction rate preferred stock, through the mandatory redemption date of year end 2021. The projected cash flows were then discounted using the applicable yield curve, such as AAA or AA US Muni Education Revenue curve for student loan auction rate securities, plus a 250 basis point liquidity premium added to the applicable discount rate of all but one auction rate security. For this instrument, developments in the fourth quarter of 2009 raised serious concern regarding the insurers ability to honor its contract. Given the distressed financial conditions of both the issuer as well as the insurer, the fair value of the municipal bond was primarily based on the expected recoveries that holders could realize from bankruptcy proceedings after a likely work out period of two years. A small number of comparable trades were also considered in the valuation of this instrument which supported the discount rate applied. Overall, the auction rate security portfolio balance decreased $2.7 million during 2009 and was largely due to the $0.7 million decrease in the fair value of this security as well as higher liquidity premiums and longer economic maturities based on the Companies assumptions regarding the auction rate market compared to those of 2008. For comparison purposes, a summary of the year end 2008 valuation techniques and assumptions used to measure auction rate securities is provided in the following paragraph. The Company performed a discounted cash flow analysis on its auction rate securities at year end 2008, using current coupon rates, a first quarter 2010 redemption date and a 50 basis point liquidity premium factored into the discount rate. The result was a downward YTD mark to market adjustment of $2.5 million in 2008, of which $1.9 million was recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as other than temporarily impaired due to credit events related to the municipal auction rate security discussed in detail above. The remaining $0.6 million was recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position representing the mark to market adjustment on all other auction rate securities. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements, including the techniques used to value the Companys remaining Level 3 securities not discussed above. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding marketable securities. In addition to investments in marketable securities, the Company also invested $242.0 million, $217.7 million and $182.7 million into Property, plant and equipment for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively. Further discussion regarding 2009 capital expenditures as well as anticipated spending for 2010 are provided near the end of Item 7. Other notable investing cash flows for 2009 included the acquisition of a wholesale company for $10.1 million, net of cash acquired. The wholesaler was purchased for its current customer base and established presence in Eastern Europe. The acquisition was not a significant business combination. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Proceeds from sale of facilities includes $4.6 million received from the sale of the Companys inkjet supplies assembly plant located in Juarez, Mexico in 2008 as well as $8.1 million received from the sale of the Scotland facility that occurred in 2007, both of which were part of the Companys restructuring actions. 56 Table of Contents Financing activities The fluctuations in the net cash flows provided by (used for) financing activities were principally due to the Companys share repurchases and debt activity. In 2009, cash flows provided by financing activities were $3.8 million due mainly to the increase in bank overdrafts of $9.9 million included in Other offset partially by $6.6 million repayment of foreign currency short term debt. In 2008, cash flows used for financing activities were $48.1 million driven by share repurchases of $554.5 million and the repayment of $150.0 million of maturing debt, offset partially by $644.5 million of net proceeds from the issuance of new long term debt. In 2007, cash flows used for financing were $147.0 million due mostly to $165.0 million of share repurchases offset partially by proceeds from employee stock plans of $15.6 million. Refer to the sections that follow for additional information regarding these financing activities. Share Repurchases In May 2008, the Company received authorization from the Board of Directors to repurchase an additional $750 million of its Class A Common Stock for a total repurchase authority of $4.65 billion. As of December 31, 2009, there was approximately $0.5 billion of share repurchase authority remaining. This repurchase authority allows the Company, at managements discretion, to selectively repurchase its stock from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon market price and other factors. The Company did not repurchase any shares of its Class A Common Stock in 2009 due to the decline in cash flow from operations as well as the increase in capital spending. During 2008, the Company repurchased approximately 17.5 million shares at a cost of approximately $0.6 billion, including two accelerated share repurchase agreements discussed below. As of December 31, 2009, since the inception of the program in April 1996, the Company had repurchased approximately 91.6 million shares for an aggregate cost of approximately $4.2 billion. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had reissued approximately 0.5 million shares of previously repurchased shares in connection with certain of its employee benefit programs. As a result of these issuances as well as the retirement of 44.0 million, 16.0 million and 16.0 million shares of treasury stock in 2005, 2006 and 2008, respectively, the net treasury shares outstanding at December 31, 2009, were 15.1 million. Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements The Company executed two accelerated share repurchase agreements (ASR) with financial institution counterparties in 2008, resulting in a total of 8.7 million shares repurchased at a cost of $250.0 million over the third and fourth quarter of 2008. The impact of the two ASRs is included in the share repurchase totals provided in the preceding paragraphs. The settlement provisions of both ASRs were essentially forward contracts, and were accounted for under the provisions of guidance on accounting as equity instruments for derivative financial instruments indexed to, and potentially settled in, a companys own stock. The details of each ASR are provided in the following paragraphs. On August 28, 2008, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a financial institution counterparty. Under the terms of the ASR, the Company paid $150.0 million targeting 4.1 million shares based on an initial price of $36.90. On September 3, 2008, the Company took delivery of 85% of the shares, or 3.5 million shares at a cost of $127.5 million. The final number of shares to be delivered by the counterparty under the ASR was dependent on the average of the daily volume weighted average price of the Companys common stock over the agreements trading period, a discount, and the initial number of shares delivered. Under the terms of the ASR, the Company would either receive additional shares from the counterparty or be required to deliver additional shares or cash to the counterparty to which the Company controlled its election to either deliver additional shares or cash to the counterparty. On October 21, 2008, the counterparty delivered 1.2 million shares in final settlement of the agreement, bringing the total shares repurchased under the ASR to 4.7 million at a total cost of $150.0 million at an average price per share of $31.91. On October 21, 2008, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with another financial institution counterparty. Under the terms of the ASR, the Company paid $100.0 million targeting 57 Table of Contents 3.9 million shares based on an initial price of $25.71. On October 24, 2008, the Company took delivery of 85% of the shares, or 3.3 million shares at a cost of $85.0 million. The final number of shares to be delivered by the counterparty under the ASR was dependent on the average of the daily volume weighted average price of the Companys common stock over the agreements trading period, a discount, and the initial number of shares delivered. Under the terms of the ASR, the Company would either receive additional shares from the counterparty or be required to deliver additional shares or cash to the counterparty to which the Company controlled its election to either deliver additional shares or cash to the counterparty. On December 26, 2008, the counterparty delivered 0.7 million shares in final settlement of the agreement, bringing the total shares repurchased under the ASR to 4.0 million at a total cost of $100.0 million at an average price per share of $25.22. Retirement of Treasury Shares In December 2005, October 2006 and October 2008, the Company received authorization from the Board of Directors to retire 44.0 million, 16.0 million and 16.0 million shares, respectively, of the Companys Class A Common Stock held in the Companys treasury as treasury stock. The retired shares resumed the status of authorized but unissued shares of Class A Common Stock. Refer to the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity and Comprehensive Earnings for the effects on Common stock, Capital in excess of par, Retained earnings and Treasury stock from the retirement of 16.0 million shares of Class A Common Stock in 2008. Senior Notes Long term Debt In May 2008, the Company repaid its $150 million principal amount of 6.75% senior notes that were due on May 15, 2008. Additionally, in May 2008, the Company completed a public debt offering of $650 million aggregate principal amount of fixed rate senior unsecured notes. The notes are split into two tranches of five and ten year notes respectively. The five year notes with an aggregate principal amount of $350 million and 5.9% coupon were priced at 99.83% to have an effective yield to maturity of 5.939% and will mature June 1, 2013 (referred to as the 2013 senior notes). The ten year notes with an aggregate principal amount of $300 million and 6.65% coupon were priced at 99.73% to have an effective yield to maturity of 6.687% and will mature June 1, 2018 (referred to as the 2018 senior notes). At December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance was $648.9 million (net of unamortized discount of $1.1 million). At December 31, 2008, the outstanding balance was $648.7 million (net of unamortized discount of $1.3 million). The 2013 and 2018 senior notes (collectively referred to as the senior notes) pay interest on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The interest rate payable on the notes of each series is subject to adjustments from time to time if either Moodys Investors Service, Inc. or Standard and Poors Ratings Services downgrades the debt rating assigned to the notes to a level below investment grade, or subsequently upgrades the ratings. The senior notes contain typical restrictions on liens, sale leaseback transactions, mergers and sales of assets. There are no sinking fund requirements on the senior notes and they may be redeemed at any time at the option of the Company, at a redemption price as described in the related indenture agreement, as supplemented and amended, in whole or in part. If a change of control triggering event as defined below occurs, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the notes in cash from the holders at a price equal to 101% of their aggregate principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of repurchase. A change of control triggering event is defined as the occurrence of both a change of control and a downgrade in the debt rating assigned to the notes to a level below investment grade. Net proceeds from the senior notes have been used for general corporate purposes, such as to fund share repurchases, finance capital expenditures and operating expenses and invest in subsidiaries. 58 Table of Contents Additional Sources of Liquidity Credit Facility Effective August 17, 2009, Lexmark entered into a new $275 million 3 year senior, unsecured, multi currency revolving credit facility with a group of banks. Under this new credit facility (the New Facility), the Company may borrow in U.S. dollars, euros, British pounds sterling and Japanese yen. On August 26, 2009, the Company entered into two commitment agreements that increased the available credit under the New Facility to $300 million which was the same amount available under the prior facility that was terminated by the new agreement. The New Facility includes commitments from nine financial institutions ranging from $15 million to $60 million. Proceeds of the loans may be used to repay existing indebtedness, finance working capital needs, and for general corporate purposes of the Company. The New Facility contains usual and customary default provisions, leverage and interest coverage restrictions and certain restrictions on, among other things, the Companys indebtedness, disposition of assets, liens and mergers and acquisitions. The minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio financial covenants are substantially the same as those that existed under the prior facility. The ratios are calculated in accordance with the New Facility and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other registrants. The Company is not aware at this time of a likely breach or any known trends that would affect future compliance. At December 31, 2009, the Company was comfortably in compliance with respect to these financial covenant ratios. The New Facility also includes collateral terms providing that in the event the Companys credit ratings decrease to certain levels (Moodys Ba2 or lower, SP BB or lower) the Company will be required to secure on behalf of the lenders first priority security interests in the Companys owned U.S. assets. These collateral arrangements will be released upon the Company achieving certain improvements in its credit ratings (Moodys Baa3 or higher, SP BBB or higher). Interest on all borrowings under the New Facility depends upon the type of loan, namely alternative base rate borrowings, swingline loans or eurocurrency borrowings. Alternative base rate borrowings bear interest at the greater of the prime rate, the federal funds rate plus one half of one percent, or the adjusted LIBO rate (as defined in the New Facility) plus one percent. Swingline loans (limited to $50 million) bear interest at an agreed upon rate at the time of the borrowing. Eurocurrency loans bear interest at the sum of (i) a LIBOR for the applicable currency and interest period and (ii) the credit default swap spread as defined in the New Facility subject to a floor of 2.5% and a cap of 4.5%. In addition, Lexmark is required to pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the New Facility of 0.40% to 0.75% based upon the Companys debt ratings. The interest and commitment fees are payable at least quarterly. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, there were no amounts outstanding under the credit facilities. Additional information related to the 2009 credit agreement can be found in the Form 8 K and Form 8 K/A reports that were filed with the SEC by the Company in August 2009. Trade Receivables Facility In the U.S., the Company transfers a majority of its receivables to its wholly owned subsidiary, Lexmark Receivables Corporation (LRC), which then may transfer the receivables on a limited recourse basis to an unrelated third party. The financial results of LRC are included in the Companys consolidated financial results since it is a wholly owned subsidiary. LRC is a separate legal entity with its own separate creditors who, in a liquidation of LRC, would be entitled to be satisfied out of LRCs assets prior to any value in LRC becoming available for equity claims of the Company. The Company accounts for transfers of receivables from LRC to the unrelated third party as a secured borrowing with the pledge of its receivables as collateral since LRC can repurchase receivables previously transferred to the unrelated third party. In October 2008, commitments to the facility were renewed by one of the two banks, resulting in a decrease in the maximum capital availability from $200 million to $100 million. In October 2009, the term of facility 59 Table of Contents was extended to October 1, 2010. There were no secured borrowings outstanding under the trade receivables facility at December 31, 2009 or December 31, 2008. This facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants as well as specific provisions related to the quality of the accounts receivables transferred. As collections reduce previously transferred receivables, the Company may replenish these with new receivables. Lexmark bears a limited risk of bad debt losses on the trade receivables transferred, since the Company over collateralizes the receivables transferred with additional eligible receivables. Lexmark addresses this risk of loss in its allowance for doubtful accounts. Receivables transferred to the unrelated third party may not include amounts over 90 days past due or concentrations over certain limits with any one customer. The facility also contains customary cash control triggering events which, if triggered, could adversely affect the Companys liquidity and or its ability to obtain secured borrowings. A downgrade in the Companys credit rating would reduce the amount of secured borrowings available under the facility. Other Information The Companys credit rating was downgraded by Standard Poors Ratings Services during the first quarter of 2009 from BBB to BBB . On April 28, 2009, Moodys Investors Services downgraded the Companys current credit rating from Baa2 to Baa3. Because the ratings remain investment grade, there were no material changes to the borrowing capacity or cost of borrowing under the facilities that existed at that time, nor were there any adverse changes to the coupon payments on the Companys public debt. The Company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that accelerate the maturity dates of its revolving credit facility or public debt. The Companys credit rating can be influenced by a number of factors, including overall economic conditions, demand for the Companys printers and associated supplies and ability to generate sufficient cash flow to service the Companys debt. A downgrade in the Companys credit rating to non investment grade would decrease the maximum availability under its trade receivables facility, increase the cost of borrowing under the revolving credit facility and the coupon payments on the Companys public debt, potentially trigger collateral requirements under the new revolving credit facility described above, and likely have an adverse effect on the Companys ability to obtain access to new financings in the future. The Company is in compliance with all covenants and other requirements set forth in its debt agreements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Cash Obligations The following table summarizes the Companys contractual obligations at December 31, 2009: Less than 1 3 3 5 More than (Dollars in Millions) Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Long term debt (1) $ 892 $ 41 $ 81 $ 400 $ 370 Operating leases 81 30 34 13 4 Purchase obligations 131 131 Uncertain tax positions 33 6 21 6 Other long term liabilities (2) 91 46 32 13 Total contractual obligations $ 1,228 $ 254 $ 168 $ 419 $ 387 (1) includes interest payments (2) includes current portion of other long term liabilities 60 Table of Contents Long term debt reported in the table above includes principal repayments of $350 million and $300 million in the 3 5 Years and More than 5 Years columns, respectively. All other amounts represent interest payments. Purchase obligations reported in the table above include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. In connection with the Companys restructuring programs, the total liability balance at December 31, 2009 was $72 million, including $44 million that is included in Accrued liabilities and is expected to be paid in the next twelve months and $28 million that is included in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The $72 million total is included in Other long term liabilities in the table above, with short term and long term amounts reported separately in the Less than 1 Year and 1 3 Years columns, respectively. These payments will relate mainly to employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges. The Companys funding policy for its pension and other postretirement plans is to fund minimum amounts according to the regulatory requirements under which the plans operate. From time to time, the Company may choose to fund amounts in excess of the minimum for various reasons. The Company is currently expecting to contribute approximately $20 million to its pension and other postretirement plans in 2010. The Company is currently assuming expected funding obligations for 2011 and 2012 of $30 million to $35 million per year based on factors that were present as of December 31, 2009. Actual future funding requirements beyond 2010 will be impacted by various factors, including actual pension asset returns and interest rates used for discounting future liabilities. The effect of any future contributions the Company may be obligated or otherwise choose to make could be material to the Companys future cash flows from operations. Due to the uncertainty of future funding obligations, the table above contains no amounts for pension and postretirement plan funding. The Companys financial obligation to collect, recycle, treat and dispose of the printing devices it produces, and in some instances, historical waste equipment it holds, is not shown in the table above due to the lack of historical data necessary to project future dates of payment. At December 31, 2009, the Companys estimated liability for this obligation was a current liability of $1 million and a long term liability of $35 million. These amounts were included in Accrued liabilities and Other liabilities, respectively, on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Refer to the Risk Factors section in Part I, Item 1A of this report for additional information regarding the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive adopted by the European Union. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had accrued approximately $70 million for pending copyright fee issues, including litigation proceedings, local legislative initiatives and or negotiations with the parties involved. These accruals are included in Accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The liability is not included in the table above due to the level of uncertainty regarding the timing of payments and ultimate settlement of the litigation. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Payment of such potential obligations could have a material impact on the Companys future operating cash flows. CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Capital expenditures totaled $242 million, $218 million and $183 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The capital expenditures for 2009 principally related to infrastructure support (including information technology expenditures) and new product development. The increase in 2009 capital expenditures compared to prior years was driven by internal use software and infrastructure expenditures. During 2010, the Company expects capital expenditures to be approximately $185 million, primarily attributable to infrastructure support and new product development. Capital expenditures are expected to be funded through cash from operations; however, if necessary, the 61 Table of Contents Company may use existing cash, cash equivalents, and proceeds from sales of marketable securities or additional sources of liquidity as discussed above. EFFECT OF CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT Revenue derived from international sales, including exports from the U.S., accounts for approximately 57% of the Companys consolidated revenue, with Europe accounting for approximately two thirds of international sales. Substantially all foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their local currencies. Consequently, period to period comparability of results of operations is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Certain of the Companys Latin American and European entities use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. Currency exchange rates had an unfavorable impact on international revenue in 2009 when compared to 2008. Currency exchange rates had a favorable impact on international revenue in 2008 and 2007 when compared with 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company may act to mitigate the effects of exchange rate fluctuations through the use of operational hedges, such as pricing actions and product sourcing decisions. The Companys exposure to exchange rate fluctuations generally cannot be minimized solely through the use of operational hedges. Therefore, the Company utilizes financial instruments, from time to time, such as forward exchange contracts to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities, which arise from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The Company does not purchase currency related financial instruments for purposes other than exchange rate risk management. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Part II, Item 7, for a description of the Companys implementation of accounting guidance issued in 2009 related to fair value measurement and impairment of marketable debt securities. There are no known material changes and trends nor any recognized future impact of new accounting guidance beyond the disclosures provided in these two sections. INFLATION The Company is subject to the effects of changing prices and operates in an industry where product prices are very competitive and subject to downward price pressures. As a result, future increases in production costs or raw material prices could have an adverse effect on the Companys business. In an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of any such increases, the Company must continually manage its product costs and manufacturing processes. Additionally, monetary assets such as cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities lose purchasing power during inflationary periods and thus, the Companys cash and marketable securities balances could be more susceptible to the effects of increasing inflation. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY The market risk inherent in the Companys financial instruments and positions represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rates At December 31, 2009, the fair value of the Companys senior notes was estimated at $666.5 million using quoted market prices obtained from an independent broker. The fair value of the senior notes exceeded the carrying value as recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2009 by approximately $17.6 million. Market risk is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from 62 Table of Contents a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and amounts to approximately $17.5 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of the Companys senior notes was estimated at $505 million using quoted market prices obtained from an independent broker. The carrying value as recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2008 exceeded the fair value of the senior notes by approximately $143.7 million. Market risk is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and amounted to approximately $26.9 million at December 31, 2008. See the section titled LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Investing Activities: in Item 7 of this report for a discussion of the Companys auction rate securities portfolio which is incorporated herein by reference. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates The Company has employed, from time to time, a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the Companys functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the Euro, the Mexican peso, the British pound, the Philippine peso, the Canadian dollar as well as other currencies. The potential gain in fair value at December 31, 2009 for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $1.5 million. This gain would be mitigated by corresponding losses on the underlying exposures. The potential gain in fair value at December 31, 2008 for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates was approximately $6.7 million. This gain would have been mitigated by corresponding losses on the underlying exposures. 63 Table of Contents 
 
