Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto presented under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K. OVERVIEW Products and Segments Lexmark makes it easier for businesses of all sizes to move information between the paper and digital worlds, and to manage unstructured electronic content. Since its inception in 1991, Lexmark has become a leading developer, manufacturer and supplier of printing, imaging and document workflow solutions for the office. The Company also operates in the office imaging and ECM markets. Lexmarks products include laser printers, inkjet printers, multifunction devices, dot matrix printers and associated supplies, solutions and services and ECM software solutions and services. The Company is primarily managed along two segments: ISS and Perceptive Software. ISS offers a broad portfolio of monochrome and color laser printers, laser MFPs and inkjet AIOs along with innovative software solutions and managed services to help businesses efficiently manage their printer and MFP infrastructure as well as share information. Laser based products within the distributed printing market primarily serve business customers. Inkjet based products within the distributed printing market historically have served customers in the consumer market, but there is an increasing trend toward inkjet products being designed for SOHO and business. ISS employs large account sales and marketing teams whose mission is to generate demand for its business printing solutions and services, primarily among large enterprises as well as the public sector. Sales and marketing teams primarily focus on industries such as financial services, retail, manufacturing, education, government and health care. ISS also markets its laser and inkjet products increasingly through SMB teams who work closely with channel partners. ISS distributes and fulfills its products to business customers primarily through its well established distributor and reseller network. ISS products are also sold through solution providers, which offer custom solutions to specific markets, and through direct response resellers. ISS also sells its products through numerous alliances and OEM arrangements. Perceptive Software offers a complete suite of ECM software products and solutions. The electronic content and document management software and services market primarily serves business customers. Perceptive Software uses a direct to market sales and broad lead generation approach, employing internal sales and marketing teams that are segmented by industry sector specifically healthcare, education, public sector/government, and cross industry, which includes areas such as retail, financial services and insurance. Perceptive Software also offers a direct channel program that allows authorized third party resellers to market and sell Perceptive Software products and solutions to a distributed market. Perceptive Software has two general forms of software agreements with its customers, perpetual licenses and subscription services. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Companys reportable segments, which is incorporated herein by reference. Operating Results Summary 2010 The Company exited the 2009 downturn with a strong portfolio of products and solutions resulting from ongoing and focused RD investments as well as with a reduced base of operating costs and expenses due to restructuring initiatives conducted in 2009 and before. As a consequence, the revenue growth experienced by the Company in 2010 resulted in improvement in its operating margin. The Company also continued to execute on its strategic focus on workgroup laser hardware devices and higher performance 27 Table of Contents and priced inkjet hardware devices, focused on business users. The business focused users that select these devices use them more extensively than non business users, increasing printer and MFP supplies usage. In 2010 the Company saw good growth in laser hardware unit sales, due to strong growth in laser workgroup hardware unit sales. Inkjet hardware unit sales declined in 2010, as the growth the Company experienced in business focused inkjet unit sales was more than offset by declines in lower performance and lower priced consumer inkjets. The Company also saw growth in revenue from the sale of supplies, as growth in sales of laser supplies more than offset declining revenue in inkjet supplies. The broad line of workgroup printers and MFPs, including color printers and MFPs, continues to be very well received by customers and channel partners. The inkjet professional series continues to be well received by and show year to year growth in the Office superstore channel, significantly improving access to business focused customers. The new laser and inkjet product introductions in 2010 have continued to strengthen the breadth and depth of the Companys workgroup laser line, color laser line, laser MFPs and business inkjets. To allow Lexmark to participate in the growing market to manage unstructured data and processes, and to build upon and strengthen the current industry focused document workflow solutions and managed print services, the Company acquired Perceptive Software in the second quarter 2010. Refer to the section entitled RESULTS OF OPERATIONS that follows for a further discussion of the Companys results of operations. Trends and Opportunities Lexmark serves both the distributed printing and electronic content management markets. Lexmark management believes the total market opportunity of both of these markets in 2010 was approximately $95 billion. Lexmark management believes that the total distributed printing market opportunity was approximately $90 billion in 2010, including printing hardware, supplies and related services. This opportunity includes printers and multifunction devices as well as a declining base of copiers and fax machines that are increasingly being integrated into multifunction devices. Based on industry information, Lexmark management believes that the market grew in 2010 due to a rebound from the downturn in 2009. The distributed printing industry is expected to experience low to mid single digit annual revenue growth rates over the next two years, assuming the global economic expansion continues, with the highest growth likely to be attributable to multifunction products (MFPs), color lasers, business inkjets and stronger emerging market demand. In addition, managed print services and solutions are expected to experience double digit annual revenue growth rates over the next two years. Based on industry analyst estimates, Lexmark management believes that the ECM market, including document process automation software and services, is currently projected to grow 10% to 12% annually over the next few years and in 2010 had a market size of approximately $5 billion including related services. However, management believes the total addressable market is significantly larger due to relatively low penetration of ECM products worldwide. Market trends driving long term growth include: Increased adoption of color and graphics output in business; Advancements in electronic movement of information, driving more pages to be printed by end users when and where it is convenient to do so; 28 Table of Contents Continued convergence in technology between printers, scanners, copiers and fax machines into single, integrated multifunction and all in one devices; Increasing ability of multi function devices and all in one devices to integrate into process workflow solutions and enterprise content management systems; Continued digitization and electronic distribution of information driving the rapid expansion of unstructured digital information, such as office documents, email, web pages and image scans; Customer desire to have a third party manage their output environment; Ongoing emphasis on improving business process efficiency and driving costs out of the organization by better managing enterprise content; Increasing need to capture, manage and access content from any location or any device, including mobile access and mobile workflow participation, while ensuring content security; and Growing desire to unify structured data in business systems with unstructured content to make the unstructured content more valuable and actionable within business functions. As a result of these market trends, Lexmark has growth opportunities in monochrome laser printers, color lasers, laser MFPs and inkjet AIOs as well as ECM software and document workflow solutions. Color and MFP devices continue to represent a more significant portion of the laser market. The Companys management believes these trends will continue. Industry pricing pressure is partially offset by the tendency of customers to purchase higher value color and MFP devices and optional paper handling and finishing features. Customers are also purchasing more print and document management software solutions and services to optimize their document related infrastructure in order to improve productivity and cost. Inkjet based products within the distributed printing market historically have served customers in the consumer market, but there is an increasing trend toward inkjet products being designed for SOHO and business. Customers are increasingly seeking productivity related features that are found in inkjet multifunction products designed for office use such as wireless and ethernet connectivity, automatic document feeders and duplex capabilities, as well as access to web based applications to automate print and document related work functions. This trend represents an opportunity for the Company to pursue revenue growth opportunities with its inkjet products and solutions targeted at SOHO and business market segments. While profit margins on printers and MFPs have been negatively affected by competitive pricing pressure, supplies sales are higher margin and recurring. In general, as the hardcopy industry matures and printer and copier markets converge, management expects competitive pressures to continue. Lexmarks dot matrix printers include mature products that require little ongoing investment. The Company expects that the market for these products will continue to decline, and has implemented a strategy to continue to offer high quality products while managing cost to maximize cash flow and profit. The enterprise content and document management software and services market primarily serves business customers. It includes solutions for capturing and digitizing hardcopy information and intelligent tagging and indexing of hardcopy and electronic information and documents in order to streamline and automate document process workflows. These solutions help companies manage their documents and other enterprise content in the context of their business processes and enterprise applications with the result being higher productivity, lower costs, and increased customer satisfaction. Management believes the deployment of ECM systems and document workflow solutions to effectively capture, manage and access unstructured information is a significant long term opportunity. 29 Table of Contents Management sees growth opportunities in large/global enterprises with a distributed workforce, in organizations that are seeking to optimize their content related infrastructure and reduce costs, and in functional areas where workers rely on mobile devices for productivity. The demand for ECM solutions is strong in large and emerging markets alike, representing a considerable growth opportunity of Perceptive Software. The Companys ECM solutions are already installed in geographies around the world, and management believes this global customer base serves as an impetus for additional installations outside of North America. Customers continue to purchase ECM solutions that result in greater efficiency and productivity in their various lines of business and back office operations. Business systems such as enterprise resource planning (ERP), EMR, and customer relationship management (CRM) systems represent a mature market and remain vital applications but do not satisfy an organizations enterprise content management needs. The Company expects organizations to continue to look to ECM solutions to complete their enterprise information infrastructure, increasing the value of their core business system investments and leading to gains in efficiency. Challenges and Risks In recent years, Lexmark and its principal competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and or technological resources than the Company, have regularly lowered prices on printers and are expected to continue to do so. Other challenges and risks faced by Lexmark include: The Company must compete with its larger competitors for retail shelf space allocated to printers and their associated supplies. New product announcements by the Companys principal competitors can have, and in the past, have had, a material adverse effect on the Companys financial results. With the convergence of traditional printer and copier markets, major laser competitors now include traditional copier companies. The Company sees other competitors and the potential for new entrants into the laser and inkjet markets possibly having an impact on the Companys growth and market share. The Company expects competition will continue to intensify as the ECM markets consolidate. The Company sees other competitors and the potential for new entrants into the ECM markets possibly having an impact on the Companys strategy to expand in these markets. Lexmark expects that as it competes with larger competitors, the Company may attract more frequent challenges, both legal and commercial, including claims of possible intellectual property infringement. Refill, remanufactured, clones, counterfeits and other compatible alternatives for some of the Companys cartridges are available and compete with the Companys supplies business. As the installed base of laser and inkjet products matures, the Company expects competitive supplies activity to increase. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant supplies pricing pressure, but if supplies pricing was to come under significant pressure, the Companys financial results could be materially adversely affected. Global economic uncertainty and difficulties in the financial markets could impact the Companys future operating results. Refer to the sections entitled Competition ISS and Competition Perceptive Software in Item 1, which are incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of major uncertainties faced by the industry and the Company. Additionally, refer to the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A, which is 30 Table of Contents incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of factors that could impact the Companys operating results. Strategy and Initiatives Lexmarks strategy is based on a business model of investing in technology to develop and sell: (a) printing solutions, including printers, multifunction devices and solution software with the objective of growing its installed base of hardware devices and software installations, which drives recurring supplies sales as well as software maintenance and services revenue; and (b) enterprise content management, workflow and business process management software to grow its installed base of software installations, which drives recurring software maintenance and professional services revenue. The Companys management believes that Lexmark has the following strengths related to this business model: Lexmark is highly focused on delivering printing, imaging and document solutions and services for specific industries and processes in distributed environments. Lexmark internally develops all three of the key print technologies associated with distributed printing; inkjet, monochrome laser and color laser. Lexmark, through the addition of Perceptive Software, provides ECM software and workflow management products and industry tailored solutions to help companies manage business processes and unstructured information including documents and other enterprise content in the context of their business process and enterprise applications. Lexmark has leveraged its technological capabilities and its commitment to flexibility and responsiveness to build strong relationships with large account customers and channel partners. Lexmarks strategy involves the following core strategic initiatives: Focus on capturing profitable supplies and service annuities generated from its monochrome and color laser printers, laser MFPs and business focused high end inkjet AIO devices; Target and capture business customers, markets and channels that drive higher page generation and supplies usage; and Advance and grow the Companys ECM and workflow business internationally. Over the last several years, the Company continues to invest in product and solution development as well as solution sales. This investment has led to new products and solutions aimed at targeted growth segments as well as a pipeline of future products. The Companys strategy for dot matrix printers is to continue to offer high quality products while managing cost to maximize cash flow and profit. Refer to the section entitled Strategy in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of the Companys strategies and initiatives. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Lexmarks discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as disclosures regarding contingencies. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, doubtful accounts, inventories, stock based compensation, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, copyright fees, restructurings, pension and other postretirement benefits, contingencies and litigation, and fair values that are based on unobservable inputs significant to the overall measurement. Lexmark bases its estimates on historical experience, market conditions, and various other assumptions that 31 Table of Contents are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, if different estimates reasonably could have been used, or if changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially impact the financial statements. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for information regarding the Companys policy for revenue recognition. For customer programs and incentives, Lexmark records estimated reductions to revenue at the time of sale for customer programs and incentive offerings including special pricing agreements, promotions and other volume based incentives. Estimated reductions in revenue are based upon historical trends and other known factors at the time of sale. Lexmark also records estimated reductions to revenue for price protection, which it provides to substantially all of its distributor and reseller customers. The amount of price protection is limited based on the amount of dealers and resellers inventory on hand (including in transit inventory) as of the date of the price change. If market conditions were to decline, Lexmark may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings or reduce prices, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. The Company also records estimated reductions to revenue at the time of sale related to its customers right to return product. Estimated reductions in revenue are based upon historical trends of actual product returns as well as the Companys assessment of its products in the channel. Provisions for specific returns from large customers are also recorded as necessary. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts Lexmark maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The Company estimates the allowance for doubtful accounts based on a variety of factors including the length of time receivables are past due, the financial health of its customers, unusual macroeconomic conditions and historical experience. If the financial condition of its customers deteriorates or other circumstances occur that result in an impairment of customers ability to make payments, the Company records additional allowances as needed. Restructuring Lexmark records a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity at its fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred, except for liabilities for certain employee termination benefit charges that are accrued over time. Employee termination benefits associated with an exit or disposal activity are accrued when the obligation is probable and estimable as a postemployment benefit obligation when local statutory requirements stipulate minimum involuntary termination benefits or, in the absence of local statutory requirements, termination benefits to be provided are similar to benefits provided in prior restructuring activities. Employee termination benefits accrued as probable and estimable often require judgment by the Companys management as to the number of employees being separated and the related salary levels, length of employment with the Company and various other factors related to the separated employees that could affect the amount of employee termination benefits being accrued. Such estimates could change in the future as actual data regarding separated employees becomes available. Specifically for termination benefits under a one time benefit arrangement, the timing of recognition and related measurement of a liability depends on whether employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and, if so, whether employees will be retained to render service beyond a minimum retention period. For employees who are not required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits or employees who will not provide 32 Table of Contents service beyond the minimum retention period, the Company records a liability for the termination benefits at the communication date. If employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained to render service beyond the minimum retention period, the Company measures the liability for termination benefits at the communication date and recognizes the expense and liability ratably over the future service period. For contract termination costs, Lexmark records a liability for costs to terminate a contract before the end of its term when the Company terminates the agreement in accordance with the contract terms or when the Company ceases using the rights conveyed by the contract. The liability is recorded at fair value in the period in which it is incurred, taking into account the effect of estimated sublease rentals that could be reasonably obtained which may be different than company specific intentions. Warranty Lexmark provides for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. The amounts accrued for product warranties are based on the quantity of units sold under warranty, estimated product failure rates, and material usage and service delivery costs. The estimates for product failure rates and material usage and service delivery costs are periodically adjusted based on actual results. For extended warranty programs, the Company defers revenue in short term and long term liability accounts (based on the extended warranty contractual period) for amounts invoiced to customers for these programs and recognizes the revenue ratably over the contractual period. Costs associated with extended warranty programs are expensed as incurred. To minimize warranty costs, the Company engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ from the Companys estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability may be required. Inventory Reserves and Adverse Purchase Commitments Lexmark writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value. The Company estimates the difference between the cost of obsolete or unmarketable inventory and its market value based upon product demand requirements, product life cycle, product pricing and quality issues. Also, Lexmark records an adverse purchase commitment liability when anticipated market sales prices are lower than committed costs. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs and adverse purchase commitment liabilities may be required. Pension and Other Postretirement Plans The Companys pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various actuarial assumptions used in calculating such amounts. The non U.S. pension plans are not significant and use economic assumptions similar to the U.S. pension plan, a defined benefit plan. Significant assumptions the Company must review and set annually related to its pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are: Expected long term return on plan assets based on long term historical actual asset return information, the mix of investments that comprise plan assets and future estimates of long term investment returns by reference to external sources. The Company also includes an additional return for active management, when appropriate, and deducts various expenses. Discount rate reflects the rates at which benefits could effectively be settled and is based on current investment yields of high quality fixed income investments. The Company uses a yield curve approach to determine the assumed discount rate based on the timing of the cash flows of the expected future benefit payments. 33 Table of Contents Rate of compensation increase based on the Companys long term plans for such increases. Effective April 2006, this assumption is no longer applicable to the U.S. pension plan due to the benefit accrual freeze in connection with the Companys 2006 restructuring actions. In addition, some of the non U.S. pension plans are also frozen. Plan assets are invested in equity securities, government and agency securities, mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, corporate debt, annuity contracts and other securities. The U.S. pension plan comprises a significant portion of the assets and liabilities relating to the Companys pension plans. The investment goal of the U.S. pension plan is to achieve an adequate net investment return in order to provide for future benefit payments to its participants. Asset allocation percentages are targeted to be 65% equity and 35% fixed income investments. The U.S. pension plan employs professional investment managers to invest in U.S. equity, global equity, international developed equity, emerging market equity, U.S. fixed income, high yield bonds and emerging market debt. Each investment manager operates under an investment management contract that includes specific investment guidelines, requiring among other actions, adequate diversification, prudent use of derivatives and standard risk management practices such as portfolio constraints relating to established benchmarks. The U.S. pension plan currently uses a combination of both active management and passive index funds to achieve its investment goals. The Company has elected to primarily use the market related value of plan assets rather than fair value to determine expense which, under the accounting guidance, allows gains and losses to be recognized in a systematic and rational manner over a period of no more than five years. As a result of this deferral process, for the U.S. pension plan, pension expense was increased by $4 million in 2010 and is expected to increase $3 million in 2011, due to the recognition of the gains and losses for the respective prior five years. The expected increase in the 2011 pension expense for U.S. pension plan would have been approximately $4 million had the Company not deferred the differences between actual and expected asset returns on equity investments. Actual results that differ from assumptions that fall outside the 10% corridor, as defined by accounting guidance on employers accounting for pensions, are accumulated and amortized over the estimated future service period of active plan participants. For 2010, a 25 basis point change in the assumptions for asset return and discount rate would not have had a significant impact on the Companys results of operations. The accounting guidance for employers defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans requires recognition of the funded status of a benefit plan in the statement of financial position and recognition in other comprehensive earnings of certain gains and losses that arise during the period, but are deferred under pension accounting rules. Income Taxes The Company estimates its tax liability based on current tax laws in the statutory jurisdictions in which it operates. These estimates include judgments about deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes, as well as about the realization of deferred tax assets. If the provisions for current or deferred taxes are not adequate, if the Company is unable to realize certain deferred tax assets or if the tax laws change unfavorably, the Company could potentially experience significant losses in excess of the reserves established. Likewise, if the provisions for current and deferred taxes are in excess of those eventually needed, if the Company is able to realize additional deferred tax assets or if tax laws change favorably, the Company could potentially experience significant gains. Under the accounting guidance regarding uncertainty in income taxes, a tax position must meet the minimum recognition threshold of more likely than not before being recognized in the financial statements. The evaluation of a tax position in accordance with this guidance is a two step process. The first step is recognition: The enterprise determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any litigation. The second step is measurement: 34 Table of Contents A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution. Contingencies and Litigation In accordance with FASB guidance on accounting for contingencies, Lexmark records a provision for a loss contingency when management believes that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes it has adequate provisions for any such matters. Copyright Fees Certain countries (primarily in Europe) and or collecting societies representing copyright owners interests have taken action to impose fees on devices (such as scanners, printers and multifunction devices) alleging the copyright owners are entitled to compensation because these devices enable reproducing copyrighted content. Other countries are also considering imposing fees on certain devices. The amount of fees would depend on the number of products sold and the amounts of the fee on each product, which will vary by product and by country. The Company has accrued amounts that represent its best estimate of the copyright fee issues currently pending. Such estimates could change as the litigation and or local legislative processes draw closer to final resolution. Waste Obligation Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directives issued by the European Union require producers of electrical and electronic goods to be financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The Companys estimated liability for these costs involves a number of uncertainties and takes into account certain assumptions and judgments including average collection costs, return rates and product lives. Should actual costs and activities differ from the Companys estimates, revisions to the estimated liability may be required. Environmental Remediation Obligations Lexmark accrues for losses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such losses are probable and reasonably estimable. In the early stages of a remediation process, particular components of the overall obligation may not be reasonably estimable. In this circumstance, the Company recognizes a liability for the best estimate (or the minimum amount in a range if no best estimate is available) of the cost of the remedial investigation feasibility study, related consultant and external legal fees, and for any other component remediation costs that can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are adjusted as further information develops or circumstances change. Recoveries from other parties are recorded as assets when their receipt is deemed probable. Fair Value The Company currently uses recurring fair value measurements in several areas including marketable securities, pension plan assets and derivatives. The Company uses fair value in measuring certain nonrecurring items as well, as instructed under existing authoritative accounting guidance. The Company utilizes observable market data, when available, to determine fair value. However, in certain situations, there may be little or no market data available at the measurement date, thus requiring the use of significant unobservable inputs. To the extent that a valuation is based on models, inputs or assumptions that are less observable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Such measurements are generally classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. The Companys Level 3 recurring fair value measurements are related to its marketable securities, primarily auction rate securities for which recent auctions were unsuccessful. For these securities, 35 Table of Contents observable pricing data was not available resulting in the Company performing a discounted cash flow analysis based on assumptions that it believes market participants would use with regard to such items as expected cash flows and discount rates adjusted for liquidity premiums. Assumptions significant to the valuation include (1) the auction rate market will remain illiquid and auctions will continue to fail causing the interest rate to be the maximum applicable rate, (2) the securities will not be redeemed and (3) a 250 basis point liquidity premium added to the applicable discount rate. Valuation of these securities can be very subjective and estimates and assumptions could be revised in the future depending on market conditions and changes in the economy. Fair values of certain corporate debt securities and asset backed and mortgaged backed securities are also classified as Level 3 due to (1) a low number of observed trades or pricing sources or (2) variability in the pricing data is higher than expected. There is less certainty that the fair values of these securities would be realized in the market due to the low level of observable market data. Effective January 1, 2009, the Company began applying the valuation concepts of the fair value measurements guidance to its nonrecurring, nonfinancial fair value measurements. These measurements are most often based on inputs or assumptions that are less observable in the market, thus requiring more judgment on the part of the Company in estimating fair value. Determination of the most advantageous market (when no principal market exists) and the highest and best use of an asset from the perspective of market participants can result in fair value measurements that differ from estimates based on the Companys specific intentions for the asset. See Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for information regarding the Companys fair value accounting policies and fair value measurements, respectively. Other Than Temporary Impairment of Marketable Securities The Company records its investments in marketable securities at fair value through accumulated other comprehensive earnings in accordance with the accounting guidance for available for sale securities. Once these investments have been marked to market, the Company must assess whether or not its individual unrealized loss positions contain other than temporary impairment (OTTI). If an unrealized position is deemed OTTI, then the unrealized loss, or a portion thereof, must be recognized in earnings. The Companys portfolio is made up almost entirely of debt securities for which OTTI must be recognized in accordance with the amended FASB OTTI guidance that was first effective in the second quarter of 2009. The model in this guidance requires that an entity recognize OTTI in earnings for the entire unrealized loss position if the entity intends to sell or it is more likely than not the entity will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery of its amortized cost basis. If the entity does not expect to sell the debt security, but the present value of cash flows expected to be collected is less than the amortized cost basis, a credit loss is deemed to exist and OTTI shall be considered to have occurred. However, in this case, the OTTI is separated into two components, the amount representing the credit loss which is recognized in earnings and the amount related to all other factors which is recognized in other comprehensive income under the new guidance. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for more details regarding this guidance. The Companys policy considers various factors in making these two assessments. In determining whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell impaired securities before recovery of net book or carrying values, the Company considers various factors that include: The Companys current cash flow projections, Other sources of funds available to the Company such as borrowing lines, The value of the security relative to the Companys overall cash position, The length of time remaining until the security matures, and The potential that the security will need to be sold to raise capital. 36 Table of Contents If the Company determines that it does not intend to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security, the Company assesses whether it expects to recover the net book or carrying value of the security. The Company makes this assessment based on quantitative and qualitative factors of impaired securities that include a time period analysis on unrealized loss to net book value ratio; severity analysis on unrealized loss to net book value ratio; credit analysis of the securitys issuer based on rating downgrades; and other qualitative factors that may include some or all of the following criteria: The regulatory and economic environment. The sector, industry and geography in which the issuer operates. Forecasts about the issuers financial performance and near term prospects, such as earnings trends and analysts or industry specialists forecasts. Failure of the issuer to make scheduled interest or principal payments. Material recoveries or declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date. Securities that are identified through the analysis using the quantitative and qualitative factors described above are then assessed to determine whether the entire net book value basis of each identified security will be recovered. The Company performs this assessment by comparing the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected from the security with its net book value. If the present value of cash flows expected to be collected is less than the net book value basis of the security, then a credit loss is deemed to exist and an other than temporary impairment is considered to have occurred. There are numerous factors to be considered when estimating whether a credit loss exists and the period over which the debt security is expected to recover, some of which have been highlighted in the preceding paragraph. Given the level of judgment required to make the assessments above, the final outcomes of the Companys investments in debt securities could prove to be different than the results reported. Issuers with good credit standings and relatively solid financial conditions today may not be able to fulfill their obligations ultimately. Furthermore, the Company could reconsider its decision not to sell a security depending on changes in its own cash flow projections as well as changes in the regulatory and economic environment that may indicate that selling a security is advantageous to the Company. Historically, the Company has incurred a low amount of realized losses from sales of marketable securities. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for more information regarding the Companys marketable securities. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Lexmark assesses its goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that lead management to believe it is more likely than not that an impairment exists. Examples of such events or circumstances include a significant adverse change in the business climate, a significant decrease in the projected cash flows of a reporting unit, or a decline in the market capitalization of the overall Company below its carrying value. The Company considers both a discounted cash flow analysis, which requires judgments such as projected future earnings and weighted average cost of capital, as well as certain market based measurements, including multiples developed from trading stock prices and prices paid in observed market transactions of comparable companies, in its estimation of fair value for goodwill impairment testing. The Company estimates the fair value of its trade names and trademarks indefinite lived intangible asset using the relief from royalty method. At December 31, 2010, goodwill of $185.1 recognized by the Company was made up of $159.6 million allocated to the Perceptive Software reporting unit and $25.5 million allocated to the Companys ISS reporting units. The fair values of these reporting units were substantially in excess of their carrying values on this date. Key assumptions to the valuation of Perceptive Software include its ability to expand internationally and the revenue growth that would be accelerated by such expansion. 37 Table of Contents Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives using the straight line method. In certain instances where consumption could be greater in the earlier years of the assets life, the Company has selected, as a compensating measure, a shorter period over which to amortize the asset. The Companys intangible assets with finite lives are tested for impairment in accordance with its policy for long lived assets below. Long Lived Assets Lexmark performs reviews for the impairment of long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition are insufficient to recover the carrying value of the assets, then an impairment loss is recognized based upon the excess of the carrying value of the assets over the fair value of the assets. Such an impairment review incorporates estimates of forecasted revenue and costs that may be associated with an asset as well as the expected periods that an asset may be utilized. Fair value is determined based on the highest and best use of the assets considered from the perspective of market participants, which may be different than the Companys actual intended use of the asset. Lexmark also reviews any legal and contractual obligations associated with the retirement of its long lived assets and records assets and liabilities, as necessary, related to such obligations. The asset recorded is amortized over the useful life of the related long lived tangible asset. The liability recorded is relieved when the costs are incurred to retire the related long lived tangible asset. Each obligation is estimated based on current law and technology; accordingly, such estimates could change as the Company periodically evaluates and revises such estimates based on expenditures against established reserves and the availability of additional information. The Companys asset retirement obligations are currently not material to the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operations Overview Key Messages Lexmark is focused on driving long term performance by strategically investing in technology, hardware and software products and solutions to secure: (a) high value hardware installations and capture profitable supplies, software maintenance and service annuities in document intensive industries and business processes in distributed office environments; and (b) high value ECM software installations and capture professional services and software maintenance annuities by delivering industry specific and back office solutions. The ISS strategy is primarily focused on capturing profitable supplies and service annuities generated from its workgroup monochrome and color laser printers, laser MFPs and inkjet all in one (AIO) devices The Perceptive Software strategy is to deliver affordable, industry and process specific solutions through deep industry expertise and a broad ECM software platform, in a model that is easy to integrate, use, and support. While focusing on core strategic initiatives, Lexmark has taken actions over the last few years to improve its cost and expense structure. As a result of restructuring initiatives, significant changes were implemented, from the consolidation and reduction of the manufacturing and support infrastructure to the increased use of shared service centers in low cost countries. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. Lexmark continues to maintain a strong financial position with good cash generation and a solid balance sheet, which positions it to prudently invest in the future of the business and successfully compete even during challenging times. 38 Table of Contents 2010 Business Factors The Company exited the 2009 downturn with a strong portfolio of products and solutions as well as with a reduced base of operating costs and expenses due to restructuring initiatives conducted in 2009 and before. As a consequence, the revenue growth experienced by the Company in 2010 resulted in improvement in its operating margin. The Company also continued to execute on its strategic focus on workgroup laser hardware devices and higher performance and priced inkjet hardware devices, focused on business users. In 2010, the Company saw good growth in laser hardware unit sales, due to strong growth in laser workgroup hardware unit sales. Inkjet hardware unit sales declined in 2010, as the growth the Company experienced in business focused inkjet unit sales was more than offset by declines in lower performance and lower priced consumer inkjets. The Company also saw growth in revenue from the sale of supplies, as growth in sales of laser supplies more than offset declining revenue in inkjet supplies. The new laser and inkjet product introductions in 2010 have continued to strengthen the breadth and depth of the Companys workgroup lasers, color lasers, laser MFPs, and business inkjets. To allow Lexmark to participate in the growing market to manage unstructured data and processes, and to build upon and strengthen the current industry focused document workflow solutions and managed print services, the Company acquired Perceptive Software in the second quarter of 2010. ISS During 2010, Lexmark continued its investments in ISS, focusing on continuing to broaden its line of mono and color printers and multifunction products, and solutions and service offerings, targeting the higher usage segments of the imaging market. Laser workgroup products and MFPs as well as managed print services experienced double digit growth in revenue. Inkjet hardware sales declined in 2010, as the growth the Company experienced in business focused inkjet hardware sales was more than offset by declines in lower performance and lower priced consumer inkjets. Industry recognition and awards for both the laser products and high end inkjet continue to illustrate the success of Lexmarks RD investments. Perceptive Software Lexmark acquired Perceptive Software on June 7, 2010. Since the acquisition the focus of Perceptive Software has been to continue to accelerate the development of new ECM and workflow software products, and leverage the domestic and global infrastructure of Lexmark to expand the industries and geographic regions in which Perceptive participates. The goal of these investments is to continue to grow Perceptive revenue and accelerate growth in international markets. Operating Results Summary The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. The following table summarizes the results of the Companys operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in Millions) Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Revenue $ 4,199 .7 100% $ 3,879 .9 100% $ 4,528 .4 100% Gross profit 1,519 .5 36% 1,309 .8 34% 1,534 .6 34% Operating expense 1,072 .6 26% 1,093 .7 28% 1,257 .4 28% Operating income 446 .9 11% 216 .1 6% 277 .2 6% Net earnings $ 340 .0 8% $ 145 .9 4% $ 240 .2 5% 39 Table of Contents During 2010, total revenue was $4.2 billion or up 8% from 2009. Laser and inkjet supplies revenue increased 6% year to year (YTY) while laser and inkjet hardware revenue increased 13% YTY. During 2009, total revenue was $3.9 billion or down 14% from 2008. Laser and inkjet supplies revenue decreased 12% YTY while laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 22% YTY. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 133% from the prior year primarily due to higher operating income as well as lower restructuring related charges, somewhat offset by acquisition related charges. Net earnings in 2010 included $38.6 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs along with $32.1 million of pre tax acquisition related adjustments. The Company uses the term project costs for incremental charges related to the execution of its restructuring plans. The Company uses the term acquisition related adjustments for purchase accounting adjustments and incremental acquisition and integration costs related to acquisitions. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs and Acquisition related Adjustments sections that follow for further discussion. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased 39% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income and lower interest and other income/expense, net. Net earnings in 2009 included $141.3 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the execution of the Companys restructuring plans. Revenue The following tables provide a breakdown of the Companys revenue by product category, hardware unit shipments and reportable segment: Revenue by product: (Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 % Change 2009 2008 % Change Laser and inkjet printers $ 1,062.2 $ 938.8 13 % $ 938.8 $ 1,196.8 (22 )% Laser and inkjet supplies 2,914.5 2,751.8 6 % 2,751.8 3,117.5 (12 )% Software and other 223.0 189.3 18 % 189.3 214.1 (12 )% Total revenue $ 4,199.7 $ 3,879.9 8 % $ 3,879.9 $ 4,528.4 (14 )% Unit shipments: (Units in Millions) 2010 2009 2008 Laser units 1.7 1.5 1.9 Inkjet units 3.2 4.2 6.6 During 2010, laser and inkjet supplies revenue increased 6% YTY as growth in laser supplies more than offset a continuing decline in inkjet supplies. Laser and inkjet hardware revenue increased 13% primarily due to growth in laser hardware more than offsetting the decline in inkjet hardware. Software and Other, which consists principally of hardware spare parts and related service revenue, as well as software licenses, subscription, professional services and maintenance revenue, increased 18% YTY, reflecting the impact of the acquisition of Perceptive Software in the second quarter of 2010. During 2009, laser and inkjet supplies revenue decreased 12% YTY as the Company experienced declines in both laser and inkjet supplies. Laser and inkjet hardware revenue decreased 22% primarily due to declines in laser and inkjet units. During 2010, 2009, and 2008, one customer, Dell, accounted for $461 million or approximately 11%, $496 million or approximately 13%, and $596 million or approximately 13% of the Companys total revenue, respectively. Sales to Dell are included in the ISS reportable segment. 40 Table of Contents Revenue by reportable segment: (Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 % Change 2009 2008 % Change ISS $ 4,162.4 $ 3,879.9 7 % $ 3,879.9 $ 4,528.4 (14 )% Perceptive Software 37.3 N/A N/A Total revenue $ 4,199.7 $ 3,879.9 8 % $ 3,879.9 $ 4,528.4 (14 )% ISS Segment During 2010, revenue in ISS increased $282.5 million or 7% compared to 2009 due to a 13% increase in hardware revenue and a 6% increase in supplies revenue. The increased hardware revenue was due to a 23% growth in laser hardware revenue, partially offset by an 11% decline in inkjet hardware revenue. The higher laser revenue was driven by an 8% increase in laser hardware unit sales, further enhanced by a favorable mix impact. Laser hardware average unit revenue (AUR), which reflects the change in pricing and mix, increased approximately 14% due to a positive mix shift towards workgroup laser products and laser MFPs. The decline in inkjet hardware revenue was due to a 23% decline in inkjet units, partially offset by a 15% improvement in AUR, both of those changes year on year originating from the continuous shift towards high end focused inkjets and away from low end devices. The supplies revenue grew 6% year on year, primarily driven by a strong unit growth in laser supplies, somewhat offset by a decline in inkjet supplies as a result of the decrease in the installed base of inkjet hardware devices. During 2009, ISS revenue declined $648.5 million or 14% compared to 2008 due to a 22% decrease in hardware revenue and a 12% decrease in supplies revenue. The decreased hardware revenue was due to laser hardware revenue decreasing 19% and inkjet hardware revenue decreasing 28%. The decline in laser hardware revenue was due to lower unit volume and the negative impact of currency, partially offset by a positive mix of workgroup and MFP devices. Laser hardware unit shipments decreased approximately 21% YTY primarily due to fewer low end mono laser units, partially offset by unit growth in laser MFPs and single function color devices. Laser hardware AUR, which reflects the changes in both pricing and mix, increased approximately 4% YTY due to a positive product mix shift toward workgroup and MFP devices. Inkjet hardware revenue declined 28% YTY due to lower unit shipments and negative net price impacts as well as negative foreign currency impacts, partially offset by an improvement in mix toward higher end devices. Inkjet hardware AUR increased 13% due to favorable product mix. The supplies revenue declined in 2009 versus 2008 primarily due to the inkjet supplies decline. Laser supplies revenue experienced a decline as well. Management believes that the broad global economic weakness of 2009 and the shrinkage in the installed base of inkjet products due to the strategic shift away from the sale of low end inkjet devices were the key drivers of the supplies revenue decline. Perceptive Software Segment The acquisition of Perceptive Software was completed on June 7, 2010 and revenue for the year reflects only the period from June 8 to December 31, 2010. Perceptive Software revenue includes $13 million of acquisition related adjustments, which reduced revenue. See Acquisition related Adjustments section that follows for further discussion. In the fourth quarter of 2010, Perceptive Software grew its revenue by 15% sequentially versus the third quarter of 2010. 41 Table of Contents Revenue by geography: The following table provides a breakdown of the Companys revenue by geography: (Dollars in Millions) 2010 % of Total 2009 % of Total % Change 2009 2008 % of Total % Change United States $ 1,790.9 43 % $ 1,672.1 43 % 7 % $ 1,672.1 $ 1,864.8 41 % (10 )% EMEA (Europe, the Middle East Africa) 1,510.2 36 % 1,453.9 38 % 4 % 1,453.9 1,742.9 39 % (17 )% Other International 898.6 21 % 753.9 19 % 19 % 753.9 920.7 20 % (18 )% Total revenue $ 4,199.7 100 % $ 3,879.9 100 % 8 % $ 3,879.9 $ 4,528.4 100 % (14 )% During 2010, revenue increased in all geographies, with Other international growing the most. Currency exchange rates had an immaterial impact on revenue for the year 2010. During 2009, revenue decreased in all geographies due to lower laser and inkjet supplies and hardware revenue. Currency exchange rates had a 3% unfavorable impact on revenue for the year 2009. Gross Profit The following table provides gross profit information: (Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 Change 2009 2008 Change Gross profit dollars $ 1,519.5 $ 1,309.8 16% $ 1,309.8 $ 1,534.6 (15)% % of revenue 36.2% 33.8% 2.4pts 33.8% 33.9% (0.1)pts During 2010, consolidated gross profit increased when compared to the prior year as did gross profit as a percentage of revenue. The gross profit margin increase versus the prior year was primarily due to a 2.5 percentage point increase resulting from higher product margins. Gross profit margins were also favorably impacted by 0.9 percentage points due to lower restructuring related costs YTY. The unfavorable mix shift among products, reflecting a higher percentage of hardware versus supplies, had a 0.7 percentage point negative impact on gross profit percentage versus the prior year. Also, acquisition related costs incurred in 2010 had a 0.5 percentage point negative impact on gross profit margin percentage, as there were no acquisition related costs incurred in 2009. Gross profit in 2010 included $17.4 million of restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities as well as $22.1 million of pre tax acquisition related adjustments. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs and Acquisition related Adjustments sections that follow for further discussion. During 2009, consolidated gross profit decreased when compared to the prior year while gross profit as a percentage of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the prior year. The gross profit margin versus the prior period was impacted by a 2.4 percentage point increase due to a favorable mix shift among products, reflecting a lower relative percentage of hardware versus supplies, and a 2.1 percentage point decrease due to product margins as well as a 0.4 percentage point decrease attributable to higher YTY restructuring related actions. Gross profit in 2009 included $51.5 million of restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs that follows for further discussion. 42 Table of Contents Operating Expense The following table presents information regarding the Companys operating expenses during the periods indicated: 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in Millions) Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Research and development $ 369.0 8.8 % $ 375.3 9.7 % $ 423.3 9.3 % Selling, general administrative 701.2 16.7 % 647.8 16.7 % 807.3 17.9 % Restructuring and related charges 2.4 0.0 % 70.6 1.8 % 26.8 0.6 % Total operating expense $ 1,072.6 25.5 % $ 1,093.7 28.2 % $ 1,257.4 27.8 % Research and development decreased in 2010 compared to the prior year as the benefits of the restructuring actions were partially offset by higher result based compensation as well as the addition of Perceptive Software in the second quarter of 2010. Research and development decreased in 2009 compared to the prior year primarily due to the Companys efforts to reduce these operating expenses through platform consolidations and increased productivity. Selling, general and administrative (SGA) expenses in 2010 increased YTY due to the addition of Perceptive Software and higher result based compensation, partially offset by the benefits of the restructuring actions completed in 2009 and 2010. SGA expenses in 2009 decreased YTY primarily driven by lower selling expenses along with lower general and administrative expenses. Additionally, SGA expenses in 2010 and 2009 included project costs related to the Companys restructuring activities. In 2010 they also included acquisition related adjustments. See discussion below of restructuring related charges and project costs and acquisition related adjustments included in the Companys operating expenses for the years presented in the table above. In 2010, the Company recognized $21.2 million of restructuring related charges and project costs in operating expense due to the Companys restructuring plans. Of the $21.2 million incurred in 2010, $18.8 million is included in Selling, general and administrative while $2.4 million is included in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Additionally, the Company incurred $10.0 million of pre tax costs associated with the acquisition of Perceptive Software included in Selling, general, and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. In 2009, the Company incurred $89.8 million of restructuring related charges and project costs due to the Companys restructuring plans. Of the $89.8 million of total restructuring related charges and project costs incurred in 2009, $19.2 million is included in Selling, general and administrative while $70.6 million is included in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs and Acquisition related Adjustments sections that follow for further discussion of the Companys restructuring plans and acquisitions. 43 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss) The following table provides operating income by reportable segment: (Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 Change 2009 2008 Change ISS $ 744.6 $ 487.3 53 % $ 487.3 $ 622.3 (22 )% % of revenue 17.9% 12.6% 5.3 pts 12.6% 13.7% (1.1 )pts Perceptive Software (16.1 ) 0.0 0.0 % of revenue (43.2 )% All other (281.6 ) (271.2 ) (4 )% (271.2 ) (345.1 ) 21 % Total operating income (loss) $ 446.9 $ 216.1 107 % $ 216.1 $ 277.2 (22 )% % of total revenue 10.6% 5.6% 5 pts 5.6% 6.1% (0.5 )pts For the year ended December 31, 2010, the increase in consolidated operating income was primarily due to an increased gross profit, together with a reduction of operating expenses in ISS. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the decrease in consolidated operating income was primarily due to a decreased gross profit partially offset by lower operating expenses in ISS. During 2010, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs of $29.4 million in ISS and $9.2 million in All other as well as pre tax acquisition related items of $25.0 million in Perceptive Software and $7.1 million in All other. During 2009, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs of $109 million in ISS and $32.3 million in All other. During 2008, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs of $51.7 million in ISS and $41.0 million in All other. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs and Acquisition related Adjustments sections that follow for further discussion. Interest and Other The following table provides interest and other information: (Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008 Interest (income) expense, net $ 26.3 $ 21.4 $ (6.1 ) Other (income) expense, net (1.2 ) 4.6 7.4 Net impairment losses on securities 0.3 3.1 Total interest and other (income) expense, net $ 25.4 $ 29.1 $ 1.3 Total interest and other (income) expense, net, was expense of $25.4 million in 2010 compared to expense of $29.1 million in 2009. The 2010 net expense decrease YTY was primarily due to lower impairment losses on securities, increased realized gains on the sale of marketable securities as well as the non recurrence of the write down of a private equity investment. These factors were offset partially by the continued lower interest income from declining interest rates on the Companys investments. Total interest and other (income) expense, net, was expense of $29.1 million in 2009 compared to expense of $1.3 million in 2008. The 2009 net expense increase YTY was primarily due to lower interest income from declining interest rates on the Companys investments and lower investment balances as well as increased interest expense from the $650 million debt the Company issued in May 2008. Provision for Income Taxes and Related Matters The Companys effective income tax rate was approximately 19.3%, 22.0%, and 12.9% in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for a reconciliation of the Companys effective tax rate to the U.S. statutory rate. The 2.7 percentage point decrease of the effective tax rate from 2009 to 2010 was due to the reversal of previously accrued taxes in 2010 (decrease of 2.5 percentage points), a geographic shift in earnings 44 Table of Contents toward lower tax jurisdictions in 2010 (decrease of 0.8 percentage points), the U.S. research and experimentation (RE) credit being a smaller percentage of consolidated earnings before income taxes in 2010 (increase of 1.4 percentage points), and a variety of other factors (decrease of 0.8 percentage points). The 9.1 percentage point increase of the effective tax rate from 2008 to 2009 was due to a geographic shift in earnings toward higher tax jurisdictions in 2009 (increase of 5.1 percentage points), the reversal of previously accrued taxes in 2008 that did not recur in 2009 (increase of 3.1 percentage points), and a variety of other factors (increase of 0.9 percentage points). Net Earnings Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 133% from the prior year primarily due to higher operating income. The higher operating income versus 2009 was due to good revenue growth and stronger gross profit margins, which also benefited from a reduced net impact of restructuring costs and acquisition related adjustments. Net earnings in 2010 included $38.6 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities versus $141.3 million in 2009. Net earnings in 2010 were also impacted by pre tax acquisition related adjustments of $32.1 million primarily due to the acquisition of Perceptive Software. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased 39% from the prior year primarily due to lower operating income and lower interest and other income/expense, net. Net earnings in 2009 included $141.3 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities versus $92.7 million in 2008. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs and Acquisition related Adjustments sections that follow for further discussion. Earnings per Share The following table summarizes basic and diluted net earnings per share: 2010 2009 2008 Net earnings per share: Basic $ 4.33 $ 1.87 $ 2.70 Diluted 4.28 1.86 2.69 For the year ended December 31, 2010, the increases in basic and diluted net earnings per share YTY were primarily attributable to increased net earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the decreases in basic and diluted net earnings per share YTY were attributable to decreased earnings partially offset by the decreases in the average number of shares outstanding. RESTRUCTURING AND RELATED CHARGES AND PROJECT COSTS Summary of Restructuring Impacts The Companys 2010 financial results are impacted by its restructuring plans and related projects. Project costs consist of additional charges related to the execution of the restructuring plans. These project costs are incremental to the Companys normal operating charges and are expensed as incurred, and include such items as compensation costs for overlap staffing, travel expenses, consulting costs and training costs. 45 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred charges, including project costs, of $38.6 million for the Companys restructuring plans as follows: October 2009 Other Actions Restructuring Restructuring related related Charges Charges Project (Dollars in Millions) (Note 5) (Note 5) Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 3.5 $ 2.4 $ 13.3 $ 19.2 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 1.5 (1.6 ) 17.0 16.9 Contract termination and lease charges 3.4 (0.9 ) 2.5 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 8.4 $ (0.1 ) $ 30.3 $ 38.6 The Company incurred accelerated depreciation charges and project costs of $17.4 million in Cost of revenue and $1.8 million in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Total employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges (reversals) of $2.4 million are included in Restructuring and related charges while $17.0 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges (reversals) and project costs related to its restructuring plans of $29.4 million in ISS and $9.2 million in All other. October 2009 Restructuring Plan General Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Companys October 2009 Restructuring Plan. The Company expects the October 2009 Restructuring Plan to be principally completed by the end of the second quarter of 2011. The October 2009 Restructuring Plan is expected to impact about 770 positions worldwide. Total pre tax charges, including project costs, of approximately $105 million are expected for the October 2009 Restructuring Plan, with total cash cost expected to be approximately $95 million. Lexmark expects the October 2009 Restructuring Plan to generate ongoing savings beginning in 2011 of approximately $110 million. These ongoing savings should be split approximately 60% to operating expense and 40% to cost of revenue. Ongoing cash savings of approximately $105 million are expected beginning in 2011. Impact to 2010 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred charges of $35.1 million for the October 2009 Restructuring Plan as follows: October 2009 Restructuring related Charges Project (Dollars in Millions) (Note 5) Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 3.5 $ 11.2 $ 14.7 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 1.5 15.5 17.0 Contract termination and lease charges 3.4 3.4 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 8.4 $ 26.7 $ 35.1 The Company incurred accelerated depreciation charges and project costs of $12.9 million in Cost of revenue, and $1.8 million in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Employee termination benefit and contract termination and lease charges of $4.9 million are 46 Table of Contents included in Restructuring and related charges, and $15.5 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the October 2009 Restructuring Plan of $27.0 million in ISS and $8.1 million in All other. Including the $63.5 million of charges incurred in 2009, the Company has incurred $98.6 million of total charges for the October 2009 Restructuring Plan. Impact to 2009 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred charges of $63.5 million for the October 2009 Restructuring Plan as follows: October 2009 Restructuring related Charges Project (Dollars in Millions) (Note 5) Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 6.2 $ 0.9 $ 7.1 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 52.4 3.0 55.4 Contract termination and lease charges 1.0 1.0 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 59.6 $ 3.9 $ 63.5 The Company incurred $7.1 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs in Cost of revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Employee termination benefit and contract termination and lease charges of $53.4 million are included in Restructuring and related charges, and $3.0 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the October 2009 Restructuring Plan of $51.2 million in ISS and $12.3 million in All other. Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a rollforward of the liability incurred for the October 2009 Restructuring Plan. Other Restructuring Actions General Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Companys Other Restructuring Actions. 47 Table of Contents Impact to 2010 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred charges of $3.5 million for the Companys Other Restructuring Actions as follows: Other Actions Restructuring related Charges Project (Dollars in Millions) (Note 5) Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 2.4 $ 2.0 $ 4.4 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs (1.6 ) 1.6 Contract termination and lease charges (0.9 ) (0.9 ) Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ (0.1 ) $ 3.6 $ 3.5 The Company incurred $4.4 million of accelerated depreciation charges in Cost of revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Employee termination benefit charges and contract termination and lease charges (reversals) of $(2.5) million are included in Restructuring and related charges, and $1.6 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the Companys Other Restructuring Actions of $2.4 million in ISS and $1.1 million in All other. The $0.9 million reversal for contract termination and lease charges is due to the Companys decision to reuse a leased building that had earlier been vacated as a result of restructuring actions. The $1.6 million reversal for employee termination benefits charges is due primarily to a revision in assumptions. During the second quarter of 2010, the Company sold one of its inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Chihuahua, Mexico for $5.6 million and recognized a $0.5 million pre tax gain on the sale that is included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Impact to 2009 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred charges of $77.8 million for the Companys Other Restructuring Actions as follows: Other Actions Restructuring related Charges Project (Dollars in Millions) Note 5) Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 35.3 $ 9.2 $ 44.5 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 16.8 16.1 32.9 Contract termination and lease charges 0.4 0.4 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 52.5 $ 25.3 $ 77.8 The Company incurred $44.4 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs in Cost of revenue and $0.1 million in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Employee termination benefit and contract termination and lease charges of $17.2 million are included in Restructuring and related charges, and $16.1 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the Companys Other Restructuring Actions of $57.8 million in ISS and $20.0 million in All other. 48 Table of Contents Impact to 2008 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred charges of $92.7 million for the Companys Other Restructuring Actions as follows: Other Actions Restructuring related Charges Project (Dollars in Millions) (Note 5) Costs Total Accelerated depreciation charges/project costs $ 35.3 $ 15.3 $ 50.6 Employee termination benefit charges/project costs 21.0 15.3 36.3 Contract termination and lease charges 5.8 5.8 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 62.1 $ 30.6 $ 92.7 The Company incurred $42.5 million of accelerated depreciation charges and project costs in Cost of revenue and $8.1 million in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Employee termination benefit and contract termination and lease charges of $26.8 million are included in Restructuring and related charges, and $15.3 million of related project costs are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the Companys Other Restructuring Actions of $54.7 million in ISS and $38.0 million in All other. Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a rollforward of the liability incurred for the Companys Other Restructuring Actions. ACQUISITION RELATED ADJUSTMENTS In connection with acquisitions, Lexmark incurs costs and adjustments (referred to as acquisition related adjustments) that affect the Companys financial results. These acquisition related adjustments result from business combination accounting rules as well as expenses that would otherwise have not been incurred by the Company if acquisitions had not taken place. The following pre tax acquisition related adjustments affected the Companys 2010 financial results. (Dollars in Millions) Adjustment to revenue $ 13.0 Amortization of intangible assets 12.0 Acquisition and integration costs 7.1 Total acquisition related adjustments $ 32.1 Adjustments to revenue result from business combination accounting rules when deferred revenue balances for service contracts assumed as part of acquisitions are adjusted down to fair value. Fair value approximates the cost of fulfilling the service obligation, plus a reasonable profit margin. Subsequent to acquisitions, the Company analyzes the amount of amortized revenue that would have been recognized had the acquired company remained independent and had the deferred revenue balances not been adjusted to fair value. The $13.0 million downward adjustment to revenue for 2010 is reflected in Revenue presented on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For 2011, the Company expects pre tax adjustments to deferred revenue of approximately $4 million. Due to business combination accounting rules, intangible assets are recognized as a result of acquisitions which were not previously presented on the balance sheet of the acquired company. These intangible assets consist primarily of purchased technology, customer relationships, trade names, in process RD and non compete agreements. Subsequent to the acquisition date, some of these intangible assets begin amortizing and represent an expense that would not have been recorded had the acquired company 49 Table of Contents remained independent. During 2010, the Company incurred $9.1 million and $2.9 million in Cost of revenue and Selling, general and administrative, respectively, on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings for amortization of intangible assets. For 2011, the Company expects pre tax charges for the amortization of intangible assets to be approximately $20 million. In connection with its acquisitions, the Company incurs acquisition and integration expenses that would not have been incurred otherwise. The acquisition costs include items such as investment banking fees, legal and accounting fees, and costs of retention bonus programs for the senior management of the acquired company. Integration costs may consist of information technology expenses, consulting costs and travel expenses. The costs are expensed as incurred. During 2010, the Company incurred $7.1 million in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings for acquisition and integration costs. For 2011, the Company expects charges for acquisition and integration expenses of approximately $3 million. Acquisition related adjustments were recognized in the Perceptive Software reportable segment with the exception of acquisition and integration costs of $7.1 million recognized in All other. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT PLANS The following table provides the total pre tax cost related to Lexmarks pension and other postretirement plans for the years 2010, 2009, and 2008. Cost amounts are included as an addition to the Companys cost and expense amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. (Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008 Total cost of pension and other postretirement plans $ 38.8 $ 41.2 $ 37.0 Comprised of: Defined benefit pension plans $ 15.4 $ 20.3 $ 11.4 Defined contribution plans 23.6 21.4 25.1 Other postretirement plans (0.2 ) (0.5 ) 0.5 The cost of the defined benefit pension plans was higher in 2009 compared to 2010 and 2008 primarily due to curtailment losses recognized on restructuring related activity in the U.S. The cost of the defined contribution plans was lower in 2009 compared to 2010 and 2008 mainly due to a reduction in the number of participants in the U.S. plan. Changes in actuarial assumptions did not have a significant impact on the Companys results of operations in 2009 and 2010, nor are they expected to have a material effect in 2011. Future effects of retirement related benefits on the operating results of the Company depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates and investment performance. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement plans. In 2008, there was a significant decline in the value of pension plan assets primarily resulting from a large decline in equity markets. Because the Company defers current year differences between actual and expected asset returns on equity and high yield bond investments over the subsequent five years in accordance with prescribed accounting guidelines, pension expense for 2010 and 2009 was impacted $4 million and $5 million, respectively. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act) was enacted on August 17, 2006. Most of its provisions became effective in 2008. The Act significantly changed the funding requirements for single employer defined benefit pension plans. The funding requirements are now largely based on a plans calculated funded status, with faster amortization of any shortfalls. The Act directs the U.S. Treasury Department to develop a new yield curve to discount pension obligations for determining the funded status of a plan when calculating the funding requirements. 50 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Financial Position Lexmarks financial position remains strong at December 31, 2010, with working capital of $1,023.3 million compared to $948.9 million at December 31, 2009. The $74.4 million increase in working capital accounts was primarily due to the $84.7 million net increase in marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents, driven by cash generation for the year offset by capital spending and the acquisition of Perceptive Software, which shifted a substantial amount of current assets to noncurrent assets, primarily intangible assets and goodwill. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the Company had senior note debt of $649.1 million and $648.9 million, respectively. The Company had no amounts outstanding under its U.S. trade receivables financing program or its revolving credit facility at December 31, 2010 or December 31, 2009. The debt to total capital ratio was 32% at December 31, 2010 compared to 39% at December 31, 2009. The debt to total capital ratio is calculated by dividing the Companys outstanding debt by the sum of its outstanding debt and total stockholders equity. Liquidity The following table summarizes the results of the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years indicated: (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Net cash flow provided by (used for): Operating activities $ 520.4 $ 402.2 $ 482.1 Investing activities (630.6 ) (228.2 ) (427.6 ) Financing activities (12.3 ) 3.8 (48.1 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 0.7 2.3 (4.2 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (121.8 ) $ 180.1 $ 2.2 The Companys primary source of liquidity has been cash generated by operations, which totaled $520.4 million, $402.2 million, and $482.1 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Cash from operations generally has been sufficient to allow the Company to fund its working capital needs and finance its capital expenditures and acquisitions. Management believes that cash provided by operations will continue to be sufficient to meet operating and capital needs for the next twelve months. However, in the event that cash from operations is not sufficient, the Company has substantial cash and cash equivalents and current marketable securities balances and other potential sources of liquidity through utilization of its trade receivables financing program, revolving credit facility or other financing sources. As of December 31, 2010, the Company held $337.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $879.7 million in current marketable securities. The Companys ability to fund operations from these balances could be limited by the liquidity in the market as well as possible tax implications of moving proceeds across jurisdictions. A discussion of the Companys marketable securities investments is included in the Investing activities section to follow. A discussion of the Companys additional sources of liquidity is included in the Financing activities section to follow. Operating activities Although the Company generates significant annual cash flow from operations, the amounts generated trended downward during the years 2007 through 2009. Cash flow from operations for 2009 was low for the Company reflecting the impact of economic conditions on the Companys profitability as well as global 51 Table of Contents pension contributions made during the period. However, earnings and cash flows for 2010 showed a significant increase from that of 2009. The $118.2 million increase in cash flow from operating activities from 2009 to 2010 was driven by the following factors. Net earnings increased $194.1 million for 2010 as compared to 2009. The non cash adjustment for depreciation and amortization decreased $15.8 million YTY driven by the decrease in accelerated depreciation in 2010 related to the Companys restructuring actions. Accounts payable increased $22.7 million in 2010 and decreased $47.8 million in 2009. The $70.5 million fluctuation between the activity in 2010 and that of 2009 is primarily driven by greater demand in 2010 coupled with a longer payment cycle. Furthermore, the year end Accounts payable balance was considerably higher at December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2009 and is a significant factor in the Companys 2009 and 2010 cash flows, respectively. The activities above were partially offset by the following factors. Inventories balances increased $8.8 million in 2010 and decreased $81.2 million in 2009. The $90.0 million fluctuation between the activity in 2010 and that of 2009 is primarily due to actions taken by the Company in 2009 in response to challenging economic conditions that negatively impacted the Company at that time. See discussion of prior year cash flows from operating activities for additional information. Trade receivables balances increased $28.5 million in 2010 (excluding receivables recognized on the date of acquisition of Perceptive Software) and decreased $2.3 million in 2009. The $30.8 million fluctuation between the activity in 2010 and that of 2009 is primarily driven by the increase in revenues in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. The increase in the Companys days of sales outstanding at year end 2010 was largely due to the timing of sales as indicated by the slight improvement in delinquent receivables at year end 2010 compared to year end 2009. The net decrease in Accrued liabilities and Other assets and liabilities, collectively, was $4.7 million less in 2010 compared to that of 2009. The fluctuation between the activity in 2010 and that of 2009 was the result of various offsetting factors, including both cash transactions as well as the effect of accruals of expected future operating cash receipts and payments. Notable fluctuations in cash transactions included pension funding and cash paid for income taxes. The Company made $92.4 million of pension and postretirement payments in 2009, driven by the steep decline in the fair value of pension plan assets in late 2008, compared to only $8.7 million in 2010. Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds, was $77.4 million in 2010 compared to $41.3 million in 2009. Refer to the contractual cash obligations in the pages that follow for additional information regarding items that will likely impact the Companys future cash flows. The $79.9 million decrease in cash flows from operating activities from 2008 to 2009 was driven by the following factors. The decrease in Trade receivables was $148.2 million less in 2009 compared to that of 2008. Trade receivables decreased $150.5 million during 2008 compared to a decrease of only $2.3 million in 2009. During 2008, collections performance and days of sales outstanding improved significantly, reducing the trade receivables balance. During 2009, the Company maintained this improved performance in days of sales outstanding, as indicated in the days of sales outstanding measurements included in the section to follow. Net earnings decreased $94.3 million for full year 2009 as compared to full year 2008. Challenging economic conditions negatively impacted the Companys profitability during the first part of 2009 as well as the operating cash flows that were ultimately realized. The activities above were partially offset by the following factors. 52 Table of Contents The reduction in Inventories was $55.1 million more in 2009 compared to that of 2008. Inventories decreased $81.2 million during 2009 and $26.1 million during 2008. The greater reduction in 2009 was driven by the Companys increased focus on inventory management, particularly actions initiated during the second quarter of 2009 to significantly reduce the production of supplies and purchases of printers, which lowered the Companys purchases during the period. These actions were taken in response to the challenging economic conditions that negatively impacted the Company in the first quarter of 2009. The benefit of these actions was maintained by the Company through fourth quarter of 2009 accompanied by stronger than expected sales. The reduction in Accounts payable balances was $32.3 million less in 2009 compared to that of 2008. Accounts payable decreased $47.8 million during 2009 and $80.1 million during 2008. The smaller reduction in 2009 was driven by the increase in demand in the fourth quarter of 2009, as well as favorable payment terms implemented in the third quarter of 2009. The decrease in Accrued liabilities and Other assets and liabilities, collectively, was $30.1 million less in 2009 compared to that of 2008, of which the largest single factor was income taxes. Income tax payments, net of refunds received, were $41.3 million in 2009 compared to $97.8 million in 2008, a YTY decrease in income taxes paid of $56.5 million. In 2009, the Company received approximately $25 million of refunds from the IRS related to prior year tax payments. In 2008, the Company made a $21.8 million payment to the IRS in settlement of the 2004 2005 income tax audit. In addition to income taxes, there were various other items that contributed to the favorable YTY movement in Accrued liabilities and Other assets and liabilities including both cash transactions as well as the effect of accruals of expected future operating cash receipts and payments. Other notable cash transactions, though offset by other activities, included pension and postretirement funding and Germany copyright fee payments made in 2009. The Company made $92.4 million of pension and postretirement payments in 2009, driven by the steep decline in the fair value of pension plan assets in late 2008, compared to only $6.6 million in 2008. The Company also made a $43 million payment to German collection societies in the third quarter of 2009 in settlement of copyright fees levied on all in one and multifunctional devices sold in Germany after December 31, 2001 through December 31, 2007. Cash conversion days 2010 2009 2008 Days of sales outstanding 39 36 36 Days of inventory 46 47 51 Days of payables 68 67 65 Cash conversion days 18 16 22 Cash conversion days represent the number of days that elapse between the day the Company pays for materials and the day it collects cash from its customers. Cash conversion days are equal to the days of sales outstanding plus days of inventory less days of payables. The days of sales outstanding are calculated using the period end Trade receivables balance, net of allowances, and the average daily revenue for the quarter. The days of inventory are calculated using the period end net Inventories balance and the average daily cost of revenue for the quarter. The days of payables are calculated using the period end Accounts payable balance and the average daily cost of revenue for the quarter. Please note that cash conversion days presented above may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other registrants. The cash conversion days in the table above may not foot due to rounding. 53 Table of Contents Investing activities The $402.4 million increase in net cash flows used for investing activities during 2010 compared to that of 2009 was driven by the $263.4 million YTY increase in business acquisitions as well as the $226.3 million YTY net increase in marketable securities investments. This activity was offset partially by the $80.8 million YTY decrease in capital spending. The $199.4 million decrease in net cash flows used for investing activities during 2009 compared to that of 2008 was driven by the $234.8 million YTY net decrease in marketable securities investments offset partially by $24.3 million YTY increase in capital spending. The Companys business acquisitions, marketable securities and capital expenditures are discussed below. Business acquisitions The YTY increase in cash flows used to acquire businesses was driven by the acquisition of Perceptive Software in the second quarter of 2010 for $280 million cash consideration, or $266.8 million net of cash acquired. Perceptive Software is an ECM software company and a provider of a broad range of strong industry solutions. The acquisition enables Lexmark to immediately participate in the adjacent, growing market segment of ECM software solutions. It also provides additional revenue streams in software maintenance and professional services that are not paper usage dependent. In 2009, the Company completed its acquisition of a wholesale company for $10.1 million, net of cash acquired. The wholesaler was purchased for its current customer base and established presence in Eastern Europe. Business acquisitions were not material in 2008. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding business combinations. Marketable securities The Company increased its marketable securities investments in 2010 by $202.1 million. The Company decreased its marketable securities investments in 2009 by $24.2 million. The Company increased its marketable securities investments by $210.6 million in 2008. The Company did not increase its marketable securities investments in 2009 due to the decrease in cash flows from operations as well as the conservative investment policies pursued during 2009. Additionally, the Company made certain payments from available cash during 2009, such as pension contributions and the German copyright settlement discussed previously, that did not allow the Company to invest these funds in marketable securities during the year. The Companys investments in marketable securities are classified and accounted for as available for sale and reported at fair value. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the Companys marketable securities portfolio consisted of asset backed and mortgage backed securities, corporate debt securities, preferred and municipal debt securities, U.S. government and agency debt securities, international government, certificates of deposit and commercial paper. The Companys auction rate securities, valued at $18.0 million and $22.0 at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, were reported in the noncurrent assets section of the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The marketable securities portfolio held by the Company contains market risk (including interest rate risk) and credit risk. These risks are managed through the Companys investment policy and investment management contracts with professional asset managers which require sector diversification, limitations on maturity and duration, minimum credit quality and other criteria. The Company also maintains adequate issuer diversification through strict issuer limits except for securities issued by the U.S. government or its agencies. The Companys ability to access the portfolio to fund operations could be limited by the liquidity in the market as well as possible tax implications of moving proceeds across jurisdictions. 54 Table of Contents The Company assesses its marketable securities for other than temporary declines in value in accordance with the model provided under the FASBs amended guidance, which was adopted in the second quarter of 2009. The Company has disclosed in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates portion of Managements Discussion and Analysis its policy regarding the factors it considers and significant judgments made in applying the amended guidance. There were no major developments during 2010 with respect to OTTI of the Companys marketable securities. Specifically regarding the Companys auction rate securities, the most illiquid securities in the portfolio, Lexmark has previously recognized OTTI on only one security due to credit events involving the issuer and the insurer. Because of the Companys liquidity position, it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the auction rate securities until liquidity in the market or optional issuer redemption occurs. The Company could also hold the securities to maturity if it chooses. Additionally, if Lexmark required capital, the Company has available liquidity through its accounts receivable program and revolving credit facility. Given these circumstances, the Company would only have to recognize OTTI on its auction rate securities if the present value of the expected cash flows is less than the amortized cost of the individual security. There have been no realized losses from the sale or redemption of auction rate securities. The Company generally employs a market approach in valuing its marketable securities, using quoted market prices or other observable market data when available. In certain instances, when observable market data is lacking, fair values are determined using valuations techniques consistent with the income approach whereby future cash flows are converted to a single discounted amount. The Company uses multiple third parties to report the fair values of the securities in which Lexmark is invested, though the responsibility of valuation remains with the Companys management. Most of the securities fair values are based upon a consensus price method, whereby prices from a variety of industry data providers are input into a distribution curve based algorithm to determine the most appropriate fair value. Starting in the first quarter of 2010, the Company acquired access to additional sources of pricing, trading, and other market data in order to enhance its process of corroborating fair values and testing default level assumptions. The Company assesses the quantity of pricing sources available, variability in the prices provided, trading activity, and other relevant data in performing this process. Level 3 fair value measurements are based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall valuation. Level 3 measurements were roughly 3% of the Companys total available for sale marketable securities portfolio at December 31, 2010 compared to 4% at December 31, 2009. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding marketable securities. Capital expenditures The Company invested $161.2 million, $242.0 million, and $217.7 million into Property, plant and equipment for the years 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. Further discussion regarding 2010 capital expenditures as well as anticipated spending for 2011 are provided near the end of Item 7. Other notable investing activities Proceeds from sale of facilities includes $5.6 million received from the sale of the Companys inkjet supplies manufacturing facility located in Chihuahua, Mexico in 2010 and $4.6 million received from the sale of the Companys inkjet supplies assembly plant located in Juarez, Mexico in 2008, both of which were part of the Companys restructuring actions. Financing activities The fluctuations in the net cash flows provided by (used for) financing activities were principally due to the Companys debt activity and share repurchases. In 2010, cash flows used for financing activities were $12.3 million due mainly to the decrease in bank overdrafts of $10.0 million included in Other as well as the $3.1 million repayment of long term debt that was assumed by the Company in the second quarter 55 Table of Contents acquisition of Perceptive Software. In 2009, cash flows provided by financing activities were $3.8 million due mainly to the increase in bank overdrafts of $9.9 million included in Other offset partially by the $6.6 million decrease in short term debt of the Companys subsidiary in Brazil during the period. In 2008, cash flows used for financing activities were $48.1 million driven by share repurchases of $554.5 million and the repayment of $150.0 million of maturing debt, offset partially by $644.5 million of net proceeds from the issuance of new long term debt. Refer to the sections that follow for additional information regarding these financing activities. Intra period financing activities Bank overdrafts and other financing sources were utilized to supplement daily cash needs of the Company and its subsidiaries in 2010. Such borrowings were repaid in very short periods of time, generally in a matter of few days, and were not material to the Companys overall liquidity position. The amounts reflected in the Companys financial statements at the end of the reporting period are not materially different from the borrowing activities during the period. Share repurchases The Company did not repurchase any shares of its Class A Common Stock in 2010 or 2009. During 2008, the Company repurchased approximately 17.5 million shares of its Class A Common Stock at a cost of approximately $554.5 million, including two accelerated share repurchase agreements executed during the period. As of December 31, 2010, there was approximately $491 million of remaining share repurchase authority from the Board of Directors. This repurchase authority allows the Company, at managements discretion, to selectively repurchase its stock from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon market price and other factors. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding share repurchases. Senior Notes Long term Debt In May 2008, the Company repaid its $150 million principal amount of 6.75% senior notes that were due on May 15, 2008. Subsequently, in May 2008, the Company completed a public debt offering of $650 million aggregate principal amount of fixed rate senior unsecured notes. The notes are split into two tranches of five and ten year notes respectively. The five year notes with an aggregate principal amount of $350 million and 5.9% coupon were priced at 99.83% to have an effective yield to maturity of 5.939% and will mature June 1, 2013 (referred to as the 2013 senior notes). The ten year notes with an aggregate principal amount of $300 million and 6.65% coupon were priced at 99.73% to have an effective yield to maturity of 6.687% and will mature June 1, 2018 (referred to as the 2018 senior notes). At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance of senior note debt was $649.1 million and $648.9 million, respectively, net of discount. The 2013 and 2018 senior notes (collectively referred to as the senior notes) pay interest on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The interest rate payable on the notes of each series is subject to adjustments from time to time if either Moodys Investors Service, Inc. or Standard and Poors Ratings Services downgrades the debt rating assigned to the notes to a level below investment grade, or subsequently upgrades the ratings. The senior notes contain typical restrictions on liens, sale leaseback transactions, mergers and sales of assets. There are no sinking fund requirements on the senior notes and they may be redeemed at any time at the option of the Company, at a redemption price as described in the related indenture agreement, as supplemented and amended, in whole or in part. If a change of control triggering event as defined below occurs, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the notes in cash from the holders at a price equal to 101% of their aggregate principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of repurchase. A change of control triggering event is defined as the occurrence of both a change of control and a downgrade in the debt rating assigned to the notes to a level below investment grade. 56 Table of Contents Net proceeds from the senior notes have been used for general corporate purposes, such as to fund share repurchases, finance capital expenditures and operating expenses and invest in subsidiaries. Additional Sources of Liquidity The Company has additional liquidity available through its trade receivables facility and revolving credit facility. Trade Receivables Facility In the U.S., the Company transfers a majority of its receivables to its wholly owned subsidiary, Lexmark Receivables Corporation (LRC), which then may transfer the receivables on a limited recourse basis to an unrelated third party. The financial results of LRC are included in the Companys consolidated financial results since it is a wholly owned subsidiary. LRC is a separate legal entity with its own separate creditors who, in a liquidation of LRC, would be entitled to be satisfied out of LRCs assets prior to any value in LRC becoming available for equity claims of the Company. The Company accounts for transfers of receivables from LRC to the unrelated third party as a secured borrowing with the pledge of its receivables as collateral since LRC has the ability to repurchase the receivables interests at a determinable price. In October 2008, commitments to the facility were renewed by one of the two banks, resulting in a decrease in the maximum capital availability from $200 million to $100 million. In October 2010, the agreement was amended by extending the term of the facility to September 30, 2011 and increasing the maximum capital availability under the trade receivables facility from $100 million to $125 million. A new financial institution was also added to the agreement in October 2010. There were no secured borrowings outstanding under the trade receivables facility at December 31, 2010 or December 31, 2009. This facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants as well as specific provisions related to the quality of the accounts receivables transferred. As collections reduce previously transferred receivables, the Company may replenish these with new receivables. Lexmark bears a limited risk of bad debt losses on the trade receivables transferred, since the Company over collateralizes the receivables transferred with additional eligible receivables. Lexmark addresses this risk of loss in its allowance for doubtful accounts. Receivables transferred to the unrelated third party may not include amounts over 90 days past due or concentrations over certain limits with any one customer. The facility also contains customary cash control triggering events which, if triggered, could adversely affect the Companys liquidity and or its ability to obtain secured borrowings. A downgrade in the Companys credit rating would reduce the amount of secured borrowings available under the facility. Revolving Credit Facility Effective August 17, 2009, Lexmark entered into a new $275 million 3 year senior, unsecured, multi currency revolving credit facility with a group of banks. Under this new credit facility (the New Facility), the Company may borrow in U.S. dollars, euros, British pounds sterling and Japanese yen. On August 26, 2009, the Company entered into two commitment agreements that increased the available credit under the New Facility to $300 million which was the same amount available under the prior facility that was terminated by the new agreement. The New Facility includes commitments from nine financial institutions ranging from $15 million to $60 million. Proceeds of the loans may be used to repay existing indebtedness, finance working capital needs, and for general corporate purposes of the Company. The New Facility contains usual and customary default provisions, leverage and interest coverage restrictions and certain restrictions on, among other things, the Companys indebtedness, disposition of assets, liens and mergers and acquisitions. The minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio financial covenants are substantially the same as those that existed under the prior facility. The ratios are calculated in accordance with the New Facility and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other registrants. The Company is not aware at this time of a likely breach or any known trends that would affect future compliance. At December 31, 2010, the Company was comfortably in compliance with respect to these financial covenant ratios. 57 Table of Contents The New Facility also includes collateral terms providing that in the event the Companys credit ratings decrease to certain levels (Moodys Ba2 or lower, SP BB or lower) the Company will be required to secure on behalf of the lenders first priority security interests in the Companys owned U.S. assets. These collateral arrangements will be released upon the Company achieving certain improvements in its credit ratings (Moodys Baa3 or higher, SP BBB or higher). Interest on all borrowings under the New Facility depends upon the type of loan, namely alternative base rate borrowings, swingline loans or eurocurrency borrowings. Alternative base rate borrowings bear interest at the greater of the prime rate, the federal funds rate plus one half of one percent, or the Adjusted LIBO Rate (as defined in the New Facility) plus one percent. Swingline loans (limited to $50 million) bear interest at an agreed upon rate at the time of the borrowing. Eurocurrency loans bear interest at the sum of (i) LIBOR for the applicable currency and interest period and (ii) the credit default swap spread as defined in the New Facility subject to a floor of 2.5% and a cap of 4.5%. In addition, Lexmark is required to pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the New Facility of 0.40% to 0.75% based upon the Companys debt ratings. The interest and commitment fees are payable at least quarterly. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, there were no amounts outstanding under the credit facilities. Additional information related to the New Facility can be found in the Form 8 K and Form 8 K/A reports that were filed with the SEC by the Company on August 21, 2009 and August 28, 2009, respectively. Credit Ratings and Other Information The Companys credit rating was downgraded by Standard Poors Ratings Services during the first quarter of 2009 from BBB to BBB . On April 28, 2009, Moodys Investors Services downgraded the Companys current credit rating from Baa2 to Baa3. Because the ratings remain investment grade, there were no material changes to the borrowing capacity or cost of borrowing under the facilities that existed at that time, nor were there any adverse changes to the coupon payments on the Companys public debt. The Company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that accelerate the maturity dates of its revolving credit facility or public debt. The Companys credit rating can be influenced by a number of factors, including overall economic conditions, demand for the Companys products and services and ability to generate sufficient cash flow to service the Companys debt. A downgrade in the Companys credit rating to non investment grade would decrease the maximum availability under its trade receivables facility, increase the cost of borrowing under the revolving credit facility and the coupon payments on the Companys public debt, potentially trigger collateral requirements under the new revolving credit facility described above, and likely have an adverse effect on the Companys ability to obtain access to new financings in the future. The Company was in compliance with all covenants and other requirements set forth in its debt agreements at December 31, 2010. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. 58 Table of Contents Contractual Cash Obligations The following table summarizes the Companys contractual obligations at December 31, 2010: Less than 1 3 3 5 More than (Dollars in Millions) Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Long term debt (1) $ 852 $ 41 $ 421 $ 40 $ 350 Operating leases 96 30 40 21 5 Purchase obligations 161 161 Uncertain tax positions 26 10 5 5 6 Other long term liabilities (2) 47 29 5 13 Total contractual obligations $ 1,182 $ 271 $ 471 $ 66 $ 374 (1) includes interest payments (2) includes current portion of other long term liabilities Long term debt reported in the table above includes principal repayments of $350.0 million and $300.0 million in the 1 3 Years and More than 5 Years columns, respectively. All other amounts represent interest payments. Purchase obligations reported in the table above include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. In connection with the Companys restructuring programs, the total liability balance at December 31, 2010 was $27.7 million, including $23.1 million that is included in Accrued liabilities and is expected to be paid in the next twelve months and $4.6 million that is included in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The $27.7 million total is included in Other long term liabilities in the table above, with short term and long term amounts reported separately in the Less than 1 Year and 1 3 Years columns, respectively. These payments will relate mainly to employee termination benefits and contract termination and lease charges. The Companys funding policy for its pension and other postretirement plans is to fund minimum amounts according to the regulatory requirements under which the plans operate. From time to time, the Company may choose to fund amounts in excess of the minimum for various reasons. The Company is currently expecting to contribute approximately $35 million to its pension and other postretirement plans in 2011. The Company anticipates similar levels of funding for 2012 and 2013 based on factors that were present as of December 31, 2010. Actual future funding requirements beyond 2011 will be impacted by various factors, including actual pension asset returns and interest rates used for discounting future liabilities. The effect of any future contributions the Company may be obligated or otherwise choose to make could be material to the Companys future cash flows from operations. Due to the uncertainty of future funding obligations, the table above contains no amounts for pension and postretirement plan funding. Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directives issued by the European Union require producers of electrical and electronic goods to be financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The Companys estimated financial obligation related to WEEE Directives is not shown in the table above due to the lack of historical data necessary to project future dates of payment. At December 31, 2010, the Companys estimated liability for this obligation was a current liability of $1.0 million and a long term liability of $30.6 million. These amounts were included in Accrued liabilities and Other liabilities, respectively, on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had accrued approximately $64.8 million for pending copyright fee issues, including litigation proceedings, local legislative initiatives and or negotiations with the parties involved. These accruals are included in Accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The liability is not included in the table above due to the level of uncertainty regarding the timing of 59 Table of Contents payments and ultimate settlement of the litigation. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Payment of such potential obligations could have a material impact on the Companys future operating cash flows. CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Capital expenditures totaled $161.2 million, $242.0 million, and $217.7 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The capital expenditures for 2010 principally related to infrastructure support (including internal use software expenditures), new product development and capacity expansion. The Company expects capital expenditures to be approximately $190 million for full year 2011, attributable mostly to infrastructure support and new product development. Capital expenditures in 2011 are expected to be funded through cash from operations; however, if necessary, the Company may use existing cash and cash equivalents, proceeds from sales of marketable securities or additional sources of liquidity as discussed in the preceding sections. EFFECT OF CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT Revenue derived from international sales, including exports from the U.S., accounts for approximately 57% of the Companys consolidated revenue, with EMEA accounting for 36% of worldwide sales. Substantially all foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their local currencies. Consequently, period to period comparability of results of operations is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Certain of the Companys Latin American and European entities use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. Currency exchange rates had a negligible impact on international revenue in 2010 when compared to 2009. Currency exchange rates had an unfavorable impact on international revenue in 2009 when compared to 2008 and a favorable impact on international revenue in 2008 when compared with 2007. The Company may act to mitigate the effects of exchange rate fluctuations through the use of operational hedges, such as pricing actions and product sourcing decisions. The Companys exposure to exchange rate fluctuations generally cannot be minimized solely through the use of operational hedges. Therefore, the Company utilizes financial instruments, from time to time, such as forward exchange contracts to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities, which arise from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The Company does not purchase currency related financial instruments for purposes other than exchange rate risk management. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements which is incorporated herein by reference. There are no known material changes and trends nor any recognized future impact of new accounting guidance beyond the disclosures provided in Note 2. INFLATION The Company is subject to the effects of changing prices and operates in an industry where product prices are very competitive and subject to downward price pressures. As a result, future increases in production costs or raw material prices could have an adverse effect on the Companys business. In an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of any such increases, the Company must continually manage its product costs and manufacturing processes. Additionally, monetary assets such as cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities lose purchasing power during inflationary periods and thus, the Companys cash and marketable securities balances could be more susceptible to the effects of increasing inflation. 60 Table of Contents Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY The market risk inherent in the Companys financial instruments and positions represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rates At December 31, 2010, the fair value of the Companys senior notes was estimated at $693.8 million based on the prices the bonds have recently traded in the market as well as the overall market conditions on the date of valuation. The fair value of the senior notes exceeded the carrying value as recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2010 by approximately $44.7 million. Market risk is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and amounts to approximately $12.7 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of the Companys senior notes was estimated at $666.5 million using quoted market prices obtained from an independent broker. The fair value of the senior notes exceeded the carrying value as recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2009 by approximately $17.6 million. Market risk is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and was approximately $17.5 million at December 31, 2009. See the section titled LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Investing Activities: in Item 7 of this report for a discussion of the Companys auction rate securities portfolio which is incorporated herein by reference. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates The Company has employed, from time to time, a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the Companys functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the Euro, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, the Philippine peso, the Mexican peso, as well as other currencies. Exposures may be hedged with foreign currency forward contracts, put options, and call options generally with maturity dates of twelve months or less. The potential gain in fair value at December 31, 2010 for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $15.2 million. This gain would be mitigated by corresponding losses on the underlying exposures. The potential gain in fair value at December 31, 2009 for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates was approximately $1.5 million. This gain would have been mitigated by corresponding losses on the underlying exposures. 61 Table of Contents 
 
