Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto presented under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K. OVERVIEW Products and Segments Lexmark makes it easier for businesses of all sizes to move and manage information between the paper and digital worlds. Since its inception in 1991, Lexmark has become a leading developer, manufacturer and supplier of printing, imaging, document workflow, and content management solutions for the office. The Company operates in the office imaging and enterprise content and business process management markets. Lexmarks products include laser printers, inkjet printers, multifunction devices, dot matrix printers and the associated supplies/solutions/services, and ECM and BPM software solutions and services. The Company is primarily managed along two segments: ISS and Perceptive Software. ISS offers a broad portfolio of monochrome and color laser printers, laser MFPs, inkjet AIOs and accessories, as well as software applications, software solutions and managed print services to help businesses efficiently capture, manage and access information. Laser based products within the distributed printing market primarily serve business customers. Inkjet based products within the distributed printing market historically have served customers in the consumer market, but there is an increasing trend toward inkjet products being designed for the office environment. ISS employs large account sales and marketing teams whose mission is to generate demand for its business printing solutions and services, primarily among large corporations as well as the public sector. These sales and marketing teams primarily focus on industries such as financial services, retail, manufacturing, education, government and health care. ISS also markets its laser and inkjet products increasingly through SMB sales and marketing teams who work closely with channel partners. ISS distributes and fulfills its products to business customers primarily through its well established distributor and reseller network. ISS products are also sold through solution providers, which offer custom solutions to specific markets, and through direct response resellers. ISS also sells its products through numerous alliances and OEM arrangements. Perceptive Software offers a complete suite of ECM and BPM software products and solutions. The enterprise content and business process management software and services markets primarily serve business customers. Perceptive Software uses a direct to market sales and broad lead generation approach, employing internal sales and marketing teams that are segmented by industry sector specifically healthcare, education, public sector/government, and cross industry, which includes areas such as retail, financial services and insurance. Perceptive Software also offers a direct channel partner program that allows authorized third party resellers to market and sell Perceptive Software products and solutions to a distributed market. Perceptive Software has two general forms of software agreements with its customers, perpetual licenses and subscription services. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Companys reportable segments, which is incorporated herein by reference. Operating Results Summary 2011 Lexmarks 2011 results reflected revenue that decreased less than 1% compared to 2010. Supplies revenue was flat year to year (YTY), hardware revenue decreased 7% YTY, while software and other 32 Table of Contents revenue increased 22% due to Perceptive Software. Operating income decreased less than 1% YTY. Lexmark continues to focus on growing its core revenue. In 2011 versus 2010, total core revenue grew 7%, reflecting 11% growth in core supplies revenue and 154% percent growth in Perceptive Software revenue, partially offset by a 4% decline in core hardware. The 2011 results for Perceptive Software reflect full year financial results while 2010 results reflect activity occurring after Perceptive Software was acquired on June 7, 2010. Total legacy revenue declined 35% versus 2010. The Company uses the term legacy to include hardware and supplies for consumer inkjet platforms. Core excludes legacy and includes laser, business inkjet, and dot matrix hardware and supplies and the associated features and services sold on a unit basis or through a managed services agreement. Core also includes parts and service related to hardware maintenance and includes software licenses and the associated software maintenance services sold on a unit basis or as a subscription service. The Companys focus continues to be on growing its core business while legacy continues to become a less significant portion of the Companys revenue mix. To deliver growth in the core business, the Company continues a strategic focus on growing its Managed Print Services offerings and the placement of high end hardware. The Company also continues the strategic focus on expansion in solutions and software capabilities, to both strengthen its Managed Print Services offerings and grow its non printing related software solutions business focused in the ECM and BPM markets. These strategic focus areas are intended to increase our penetration in the business segment. The business segment tends to have higher page generating and more software intensive application requirements, which drive increasing levels of core supplies and software maintenance and support revenue. The legacy business is expected to continue to decline over the next several years, and become an increasingly small percentage of total Lexmark revenue. In order to support these strategic focus areas, and to allow Lexmark to participate in the growing market to manage unstructured data and processes, and to build upon and strengthen the current industry focused document workflow solutions and managed print services, the Company acquired Perceptive Software in June of 2010 and Pallas Athena in October of 2011. Refer to the section entitled RESULTS OF OPERATIONS that follows for a further discussion of the Companys results of operations. Trends and Opportunities Lexmark serves both the distributed printing and enterprise content and business process management software and solution markets. Lexmark management believes the total market opportunity of these markets combined in 2011 was approximately $90 billion. Lexmark management believes that the total distributed printing market opportunity was approximately $82 billion in 2011, including printing hardware, supplies and related services. This opportunity includes printers and multifunction devices as well as a declining base of copiers and fax machines that are increasingly being integrated into multifunction devices. Based on industry information, Lexmark management believes that the market declined slightly in 2011 after a bounce back in 2010 that followed the downturn in 2009. The distributed printing industry is expected to experience low single digit revenue growth overall over the next two years assuming economic growth remains low, especially in developed regions like Europe and North America, but growth is likely in MFPs, color lasers, business inkjets and stronger emerging market countries. In addition, managed print services and solutions are expected to continue to experience near double digit annual revenue growth rates over the next two years. Based on industry analyst estimates, Lexmark management believes that the ECM and BPM software markets, including document output management software, are projected to grow 10% to 12% annually over the next few years and in 2011 had a market size of approximately $8 billion, excluding related professional services. However, management believes the total addressable market is significantly larger due to relatively low penetration of document and human centric ECM and BPM solutions worldwide. 33 Table of Contents Market trends driving long term growth include: Continued adoption of color and graphics output in business; Advancements in electronic movement of information, driving a continued shift in pages away from centralized commercial printing to distributed printing by end users when and where it is convenient to do so; Continued convergence between printers, scanners, copiers and fax machines into single, integrated multifunction and all in one devices; Increasing ability of multi function printing devices to integrate into process workflow solutions and enterprise content management systems; Continued digitization of information and the electronic distribution of information, driving the explosive growth of unstructured digital information, such as office documents, emails, web pages and image files; Customer desire to have a third party manage their output environment; Ongoing emphasis on improving business process efficiency and driving costs out of the organization by better managing enterprise content and associated processes; Increasing need to capture, manage and access content from any location or any device, including mobile access and mobile workflow participation, while ensuring content security; and Growing desire to unify structured data in business systems with unstructured digital content to make the unstructured content more valuable and actionable within business functions. As a result of these market trends, Lexmark has growth opportunities in monochrome and color laser printers and MFPs and business inkjet AIOs, managed print services, as well as fleet management, ECM, BPM, and DOM software and solutions. Color and MFP devices continue to represent a more significant portion of the laser market. The Companys management believes that these trends will continue. Industry pricing pressure is partially offset by the tendency of customers to purchase higher value color and MFP devices and optional paper handling and finishing features. Customers are also purchasing more print and document and process management software solutions and services to optimize their document related processes and infrastructure in order to improve productivity and cost. Inkjet based products within the distributed printing market historically have served customers in the consumer market, but there is an increasing trend toward inkjet products being designed for the office environment. Customers are increasingly seeking productivity related features that are found in inkjet multifunction products designed for office use such as wireless and ethernet connectivity, automatic document feeders and duplex capabilities, as well as access to web based applications to automate print and document related work functions. This trend represents an opportunity for the Company to pursue revenue growth opportunities with its inkjet products and solutions targeted at business market segments. While profit margins on printers and MFPs have been negatively affected by competitive pricing pressure, supplies sales are higher margin and recurring. In general, as the printing industry matures and printer and copier based product markets converge, the Companys management expects competitive pressures on product prices to continue. Lexmarks dot matrix printers include mature products that require little ongoing investment. The Company expects that the market for these products will continue to decline, and has implemented a strategy to continue to offer high quality products while managing cost to maximize cash flow and profit. 34 Table of Contents The rapidly growing BPM software market is closely adjacent to Perceptive Softwares existing ECM market. By bringing these closely aligned technologies together, Lexmark will further strengthen its industry leading fleet management solutions and services with a broader range of workflow solutions that, in the Companys view, are more functional and easier to implement and use than existing tools available in the market today. ECM and BPM software and services include solutions for capturing all types of unstructured information such as hardcopy, photographs, emails, and faxes and the intelligent tagging of this information in order to streamline and automate process flows while managing change to both content and processes in support of governance and compliance policies. These solutions help businesses understand existing processes, design and manage new processes, and enable the assembly of content into meaningful communications with their customers and partners. These solutions also help companies leverage the value of their content, processes, and people by seamlessly integrating the user experience with existing systems, with the result being higher productivity, lower costs, and increased customer satisfaction. Management believes the deployment of ECM and BPM systems and associated workflow solutions to effectively capture, manage and access unstructured information is a significant long term opportunity. Management sees growth opportunities in large/global enterprises with a distributed workforce, in organizations that are seeking to optimize their content related infrastructure and reduce costs, and in functional areas where workers rely on mobile devices for productivity. The demand for ECM solutions is strong in developed and emerging markets alike, representing a considerable growth opportunity for Perceptive Software. Lexmarks products are already installed in geographies around the world, and management believes this global customer base serves as an impetus for additional installations for Perceptive Software outside of North America. Customers continue to purchase ECM solutions that result in greater efficiency and productivity in their various lines of business and back office operations. Business systems such as enterprise resource planning (ERP), EMR, and customer relationship management (CRM) systems represent a mature market and remain vital applications but do not satisfy an organizations enterprise content management needs. The Company expects organizations to continue to look to ECM and BPM solutions to complete their enterprise information infrastructure, increasing the value of their core business system investments and leading to gains in efficiency. Challenges and Risks In recent years, Lexmark and its principal competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and or technological resources than the Company, have regularly lowered prices on printers and are expected to continue to do so. Other challenges and risks faced by Lexmark include: The Company must compete with its larger competitors for retail shelf space allocated to its products. New product announcements by the Companys principal competitors can have, and in the past, have had, a material adverse effect on the Companys financial results. With the convergence of traditional printer and copier markets, major laser competitors now include traditional copier companies. The Company sees other competitors and the potential for new entrants into the laser and inkjet markets possibly having an impact on the Companys growth and market share. The Company expects competition will continue to intensify as the ECM and BPM markets consolidate. The Company sees other competitors and the potential for new entrants into the ECM and BPM markets possibly having an impact on the Companys strategy to expand in these markets. 35 Table of Contents Lexmark expects that as it competes with larger competitors, the Company may attract more frequent challenges, both legal and commercial, including claims of possible intellectual property infringement. Refill, remanufactured, clones, counterfeits and other compatible alternatives for some of the Companys cartridges are available and compete with the Companys supplies business. As the installed base of laser and inkjet products matures, the Company expects competitive supplies activity to increase. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant supplies pricing pressure, but if supplies pricing was to come under significant pressure, the Companys financial results could be materially adversely affected. Global economic uncertainty and difficulties in the financial markets could impact the Companys future operating results. Changes of printing behavior driven by adoption of electronic processes and or use of mobile devices such as tablets and smart phones by businesses could result in a reduction in printing, which could adversely impact consumption of supplies. Refer to the sections entitled Competition ISS and Competition Perceptive Software in Item 1, which are incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of major uncertainties faced by the industry and the Company. Additionally, refer to the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of factors that could impact the Companys operating results. Strategy and Initiatives Lexmarks strategy is based on a business model of investing in technology to develop and sell printing solutions, including printers, multifunction devices and solution software including enterprise content and business process management software, with the objective of growing its installed base of hardware devices and software installations, which drives recurring supplies sales as well as software maintenance and services revenue. The Companys management believes that Lexmark has the following strengths related to this business model: Lexmark is highly focused on delivering printing, imaging and document process solutions and services for specific industries and business processes in distributed environments. Lexmark internally develops all three of the key print technologies associated with distributed printing: inkjet, monochrome laser and color laser. Lexmark, through Perceptive Software and Pallas Athena, provides ECM, BPM, and DOM software products and corresponding industry tailored solutions to help companies manage the lifecycle of their content and processes all in the context of their existing business process and enterprise applications. Lexmark has leveraged its technological capabilities and its commitment to flexibility and responsiveness to build strong relationships with large account customers and channel partners. Lexmarks strategy involves the following core strategic initiatives: Invest in technology, hardware and software products and solutions to secure high value product installations and capture profitable supplies, software maintenance and service annuities in document intensive industries and business processes in distributed environments; Target and capture business customers, markets and channels that drive higher page generation and supplies usage; and 36 Table of Contents Advancing and growing the Companys ECM and BPM business worldwide. Refer to the section entitled Strategy in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a further discussion of the Companys strategies and initiatives. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Lexmarks discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as disclosures regarding contingencies. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, doubtful accounts, inventories, stock based compensation, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, copyright fees, restructurings, pension and other postretirement benefits, contingencies and litigation, long lived assets and fair values that are based on unobservable inputs significant to the overall measurement. Lexmark bases its estimates on historical experience, market conditions, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, if different estimates reasonably could have been used, or if changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially impact the financial statements. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for information regarding the Companys policy for revenue recognition. For customer programs and incentives, Lexmark records estimated reductions to revenue at the time of sale for customer programs and incentive offerings including special pricing agreements, promotions and other volume based incentives. Estimated reductions in revenue are based upon historical trends and other known factors at the time of sale. Lexmark also records estimated reductions to revenue for price protection, which it provides to substantially all of its distributor and reseller customers. The amount of price protection is limited based on the amount of dealers and resellers inventory on hand (including in transit inventory) as of the date of the price change. If market conditions were to decline, Lexmark may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings or reduce prices, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. The Company also records estimated reductions to revenue at the time of sale related to its customers right to return product. Estimated reductions in revenue are based upon historical trends of actual product returns as well as the Companys assessment of its products in the channel. Provisions for specific returns from large customers are also recorded as necessary. Multiple Element Arrangements The Company also enters into multiple element agreements with customers which involve the provisions of hardware and or software, supplies, customized services such as installation, maintenance, and enhanced warranty services, and separately priced maintenance services. These 37 Table of Contents bundled arrangements typically involve capital or operating leases, or upfront purchases of hardware or software products with services and supplies provided per contract terms or as needed. The Company uses its best estimate of selling price (BESP) when allocating the transaction price for many of its product and service deliverables as permitted under the accounting guidance for multiple element arrangements when sufficient vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) and third party evidence do not exist. BESP for the Companys product deliverables is determined by utilizing a weighted average price approach which starts with a review of historical standalone sales data. Prior sales are grouped by product and key data points utilized such as the average unit price and the weighted average price in order to incorporate the frequency of each product sold at any given price. Due to the large number of product offerings, products are then grouped into common product categories (families) incorporating similarities in function and use and a BESP discount is determined by common product category. This discount is then applied to product list price to arrive at a product BESP. Best estimate of selling price for the Companys service deliverables is determined by utilizing a cost plus margin approach as the Company does not typically sell its services on a standalone basis. The Company generally uses third party suppliers to provide the services component of its multiple element arrangements, thus the cost of services is that which is invoiced to the Company. A margin is applied to the cost of services in order to determine a best estimate of selling price, and is primarily determined by considering third party prices of similar services to consumers and geographic factors. In the absence of third party data the Company considers other factors such as historical margins and margins on similar deals as well as cost drivers that could affect future margins. For multiple element agreements that include software and related service deliverables accounted for under the industry specific revenue recognition guidance, relative selling price must be determined by VSOE, which is based on company specific standalone sales data or renewal rates. For software arrangements, the Company typically uses the residual method to allocate arrangement consideration as permitted under the industry specific revenue recognition guidance. Multiple element arrangements and software and related services represent a smaller, but faster growing portion of the Companys overall business. Pricing practices could be modified in the future as the Companys go to market strategies evolve. Such changes could impact BESP and VSOE, which would change the pattern and timing of revenue recognition for individual elements but would not change the total revenue recognized for the arrangements. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts Lexmark maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The Company estimates the allowance for doubtful accounts based on a variety of factors including the length of time receivables are past due, the financial health of its customers, unusual macroeconomic conditions and historical experience. If the financial condition of its customers deteriorates or other circumstances occur that result in an impairment of customers ability to make payments, the Company records additional allowances as needed. In spite of economic uncertainty stemming from the European debt crisis, the Company has not experienced an increase in the aging of EMEA receivables and therefore no adjustments have been recognized in the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts regarding this matter as of December 31, 2011. Approximately 33% of the Companys trade receivables balance is related to EMEA customers. Restructuring Lexmark records a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity at its fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred, except for liabilities for certain employee termination benefit 38 Table of Contents charges that are accrued over time. Employee termination benefits associated with an exit or disposal activity are accrued when the obligation is probable and estimable as a postemployment benefit obligation when local statutory requirements stipulate minimum involuntary termination benefits or, in the absence of local statutory requirements, termination benefits to be provided are similar to benefits provided in prior restructuring activities. Employee termination benefits accrued as probable and estimable often require judgment by the Companys management as to the number of employees being separated and the related salary levels, length of employment with the Company and various other factors related to the separated employees that could affect the amount of employee termination benefits being accrued. Such estimates could change in the future as actual data regarding separated employees becomes available. Specifically for termination benefits under a one time benefit arrangement, the timing of recognition and related measurement of a liability depends on whether employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and, if so, whether employees will be retained to render service beyond a minimum retention period. For employees who are not required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits or employees who will not provide service beyond the minimum retention period, the Company records a liability for the termination benefits at the communication date. If employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained to render service beyond the minimum retention period, the Company measures the liability for termination benefits at the communication date and recognizes the expense and liability ratably over the future service period. For contract termination costs, Lexmark records a liability for costs to terminate a contract before the end of its term when the Company terminates the agreement in accordance with the contract terms or when the Company ceases using the rights conveyed by the contract. The liability is recorded at fair value in the period in which it is incurred, taking into account the effect of estimated sublease rentals that could be reasonably obtained which may be different than company specific intentions. Warranty Lexmark provides for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. The amounts accrued for product warranties are based on the quantity of units sold under warranty, estimated product failure rates, and material usage and service delivery costs. The estimates for product failure rates and material usage and service delivery costs are periodically adjusted based on actual results. For extended warranty programs, the Company defers revenue in short term and long term liability accounts (based on the extended warranty contractual period) for amounts invoiced to customers for these programs and recognizes the revenue ratably over the contractual period. Costs associated with extended warranty programs are expensed as incurred. To minimize warranty costs, the Company engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ from the Companys estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability may be required. Inventory Reserves and Adverse Purchase Commitments Lexmark writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value. The Company estimates the difference between the cost of obsolete or unmarketable inventory and its market value based upon product demand requirements, product life cycle, product pricing and quality issues. Also, Lexmark records an adverse purchase commitment liability when anticipated market sales prices are lower than committed costs. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs and adverse purchase commitment liabilities may be required. 39 Table of Contents Pension and Other Postretirement Plans The Companys pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various actuarial assumptions used in calculating such amounts. The non U.S. pension plans are not significant and use economic assumptions similar to the U.S. pension plan, a defined benefit plan. Significant assumptions the Company must review and set annually related to its pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are: Expected long term return on plan assets based on long term historical actual asset return information, the mix of investments that comprise plan assets and future estimates of long term investment returns by reference to external sources. The Company also includes an additional return for active management, when appropriate, and deducts various expenses. Discount rate reflects the rates at which benefits could effectively be settled and is based on current investment yields of high quality fixed income investments. The Company uses a yield curve approach to determine the assumed discount rate based on the timing of the cash flows of the expected future benefit payments. Rate of compensation increase based on the Companys long term plans for such increases. Effective April 2006, this assumption is no longer applicable to the U.S. pension plan due to the benefit accrual freeze in connection with the Companys 2006 restructuring actions. In addition, some of the non U.S. pension plans are also frozen. Plan assets are invested in equity securities, government and agency securities, mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, corporate debt, annuity contracts and other securities. The U.S. pension plan comprises a significant portion of the assets and liabilities relating to the Companys pension plans. The investment goal of the U.S. pension plan is to achieve an adequate net investment return in order to provide for future benefit payments to its participants. Asset allocation percentages are targeted to be 65% equity and 35% fixed income investments. The U.S. pension plan employs professional investment managers to invest in U.S. equity, global equity, international developed equity, emerging market equity, U.S. fixed income, high yield bonds and emerging market debt. Each investment manager operates under an investment management contract that includes specific investment guidelines, requiring among other actions, adequate diversification, prudent use of derivatives and standard risk management practices such as portfolio constraints relating to established benchmarks. The U.S. pension plan currently uses a combination of both active management and passive index funds to achieve its investment goals. The Company has elected to primarily use the market related value of plan assets rather than fair value to determine expense which, under the accounting guidance, allows gains and losses to be recognized in a systematic and rational manner over a period of no more than five years. As a result of this deferral process, for the U.S. pension plan, pension expense was increased by $3 million in 2011 and is expected to increase $5 million in 2012, due to the recognition of the gains and losses for the respective prior five years. The expected increase in the 2012 pension expense for U.S. pension plan would have been approximately $5 million had the Company not deferred the differences between actual and expected asset returns on equity investments. Actual results that differ from assumptions that fall outside the 10% corridor, as defined by accounting guidance on employers accounting for pensions, are accumulated and amortized over the estimated future service period of active plan participants. For 2011, a 25 basis point change in the assumptions for asset return and discount rate would not have had a significant impact on the Companys results of operations. The accounting guidance for employers defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans requires recognition of the funded status of a benefit plan in the statement of financial position and recognition in other comprehensive earnings of certain gains and losses that arise during the period, but are deferred under pension accounting rules. 40 Table of Contents Income Taxes The Company estimates its tax liability based on current tax laws in the statutory jurisdictions in which it operates. These estimates include judgments about deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes, as well as about the realization of deferred tax assets. If the provisions for current or deferred taxes are not adequate, if the Company is unable to realize certain deferred tax assets or if the tax laws change unfavorably, the Company could potentially experience significant losses in excess of the reserves established. Likewise, if the provisions for current and deferred taxes are in excess of those eventually needed, if the Company is able to realize additional deferred tax assets or if tax laws change favorably, the Company could potentially experience significant gains. Under the accounting guidance regarding uncertainty in income taxes, a tax position must meet the minimum recognition threshold of more likely than not before being recognized in the financial statements. The evaluation of a tax position in accordance with this guidance is a two step process. The first step is recognition: The enterprise determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any litigation. The second step is measurement: A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution. Litigation and Contingencies In accordance with FASB guidance on accounting for contingencies, Lexmark records a provision for a loss contingency when management has determined that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Although the Company believes it has adequate provisions for any such matters, litigation is inherently unpredictable. Should developments occur that result in the need to recognize a material accrual, or should any of the Companys legal matters result in a substantial judgment against, or settlement by, the Company, the resulting liability could have a material effect on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and or cash flows. Copyright Fees Certain countries (primarily in Europe) and or collecting societies representing copyright owners interests have taken action to impose fees on devices (such as scanners, printers and multifunction devices) alleging the copyright owners are entitled to compensation because these devices enable reproducing copyrighted content. Other countries are also considering imposing fees on certain devices. The amount of fees would depend on the number of products sold and the amounts of the fee on each product, which will vary by product and by country. The Company has accrued amounts that represent its best estimate of the copyright fee issues currently pending. Such estimates could change as the litigation and or local legislative processes draw closer to final resolution. Environmental Remediation Obligations Lexmark accrues for losses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such losses are probable and reasonably estimable. In the early stages of a remediation process, particular components of the overall obligation may not be reasonably estimable. In this circumstance, the Company recognizes a liability for the best estimate (or the minimum amount in a range if no best estimate is available) of its allocable share of the cost of the remedial investigation feasibility study, consultant and external legal fees, corrective measures studies, monitoring, and any other component remediation costs that can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are adjusted as further information 41 Table of Contents develops or circumstances change. Recoveries from other parties are recorded as assets when their receipt is deemed probable. Although environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to the Companys results of operations, financial position, cash flows, statement of changes in stockholders equity and comprehensive earnings, such estimates could change as the processes draw closer to final resolution. Waste Obligation Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directives issued by the European Union require producers of electrical and electronic goods to be financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The Companys estimated liability for these costs involves a number of uncertainties and takes into account certain assumptions and judgments including average collection costs, return rates and product lives. During 2011, the Company reduced its estimated liability and recognized a $10.5 million net benefit to Cost of revenue. The adjustment was driven by the lower number of products actually returned and collected compared to the return rate assumption used in the original estimate. In the future, should actual costs and activities differ from the Companys estimates and assumptions, revisions to the estimated liability may be required. Fair Value The Company currently uses recurring fair value measurements in several areas including marketable securities, pension plan assets and derivatives. The Company uses fair value in measuring certain nonrecurring items as well, such as long lived assets held for sale. The Company uses third parties to report the fair values of its marketable securities and pension plan assets, though the responsibility remains with the Companys management. The Company utilizes various sources of pricing as well as trading and other market data in its process of corroborating fair values and testing default level assumptions for these investments. The Company also uses third parties to assist with the valuation of certain illiquid securities as well as the valuation of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations when it is determined that an income approach is the most appropriate method to determine fair value. In certain situations, there may be little or no market data available at the measurement date for the Companys fair value measurements, thus requiring the use of significant unobservable inputs. To the extent that a valuation is based on models, inputs or assumptions that are less observable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Such measurements, when classified within the fair value hierarchy, are generally classified as Level 3. The Companys Level 3 recurring fair value measurements are related mostly to its investments, including auction rate securities for which recent auctions were unsuccessful. For these securities, observable pricing data was not available resulting in the Company performing a discounted cash flow analysis based on inputs that it believes market participants would use with regard to such items as expected cash flows and discount rates adjusted for liquidity premiums or credit risk. Assumptions significant to the valuation include assumptions regarding the financial health of the issuer as well as assumptions regarding the auction rate market in general, such as the market will remain illiquid and auctions will continue to fail. Valuation of these securities can be very subjective and estimates and assumptions could be revised in the future depending on market conditions and changes in the economy or credit standing of the issuer. Fair values of other marketable securities, mainly certain corporate debt securities and asset backed and mortgaged backed securities, are also classified as Level 3 due to (1) a low number of observed trades or pricing sources or (2) variability in the pricing data is higher than expected. There is less certainty that the fair values of these securities would be realized in the market due to the low level of observable market data. 42 Table of Contents Nonrecurring, nonfinancial fair value measurements are most often based on inputs or assumptions that are less observable in the market, thus requiring more judgment on the part of the Company in estimating fair value. Determination of the most advantageous market (when no principal market exists) and the highest and best use of an asset from the perspective of market participants can result in fair value measurements that differ from estimates based on the Companys specific intentions for the asset. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for information regarding the Companys fair value accounting policies and fair value measurements, respectively. Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for information regarding pension plan assets. Other Than Temporary Impairment of Marketable Securities The Company records its investments in marketable securities at fair value through accumulated other comprehensive earnings in accordance with the accounting guidance for available for sale securities. Once these investments have been marked to market, the Company must assess whether or not its individual unrealized loss positions contain other than temporary impairment (OTTI). If an unrealized position is deemed OTTI, then the unrealized loss, or a portion thereof, must be recognized in earnings. The Companys portfolio is made up almost entirely of debt securities for which OTTI must be recognized in accordance with the amended FASB OTTI guidance that was first effective in the second quarter of 2009. The model in this guidance requires that an entity recognize OTTI in earnings for the entire unrealized loss position if the entity intends to sell or it is more likely than not the entity will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery of its amortized cost basis. If the entity does not expect to sell the debt security, but the present value of cash flows expected to be collected is less than the amortized cost basis, a credit loss is deemed to exist and OTTI shall be considered to have occurred. However, in this case, the OTTI is separated into two components, the amount representing the credit loss which is recognized in earnings and the amount related to all other factors which is recognized in other comprehensive income under the new guidance. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for more details regarding this guidance. The Companys policy considers various factors in making these two assessments. In determining whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell impaired securities before recovery of net book or carrying values, the Company considers various factors that include: The Companys current cash flow projections, Other sources of funds available to the Company such as borrowing lines, The value of the security relative to the Companys overall cash position, The length of time remaining until the security matures, and The potential that the security will need to be sold to raise capital. If the Company determines that it does not intend to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security, the Company assesses whether it expects to recover the net book or carrying value of the security. The Company makes this assessment based on quantitative and qualitative factors of impaired securities that include a time period analysis on unrealized loss to net book value ratio; severity analysis on unrealized loss to net book value ratio; credit analysis of the securitys issuer based on rating downgrades; and other qualitative factors that may include some or all of the following criteria: The regulatory and economic environment. The sector, industry and geography in which the issuer operates. 43 Table of Contents Forecasts about the issuers financial performance and near term prospects, such as earnings trends and analysts or industry specialists forecasts. Failure of the issuer to make scheduled interest or principal payments. Material recoveries or declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date. Securities that are identified through the analysis using the quantitative and qualitative factors described above are then assessed to determine whether the entire net book value basis of each identified security will be recovered. The Company performs this assessment by comparing the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected from the security with its net book value. If the present value of cash flows expected to be collected is less than the net book value basis of the security, then a credit loss is deemed to exist and an other than temporary impairment is considered to have occurred. There are numerous factors to be considered when estimating whether a credit loss exists and the period over which the debt security is expected to recover, some of which have been highlighted in the preceding paragraph. Given the level of judgment required to make the assessments above, the final outcomes of the Companys investments in debt securities could prove to be different than the results reported. Issuers with good credit standings and relatively solid financial conditions today may not be able to fulfill their obligations ultimately. Furthermore, the Company could reconsider its decision not to sell a security depending on changes in its own cash flow projections as well as changes in the regulatory and economic environment that may indicate that selling a security is advantageous to the Company. Historically, the Company has incurred a low amount of realized losses from sales of marketable securities. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for more information regarding the Companys marketable securities. Business Combinations The application of the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions in the determination of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in order to properly allocate purchase price consideration between identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets were determined using an income approach, which requires projected financial information and market participant assumptions. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for information regarding the methods used to determine fair value related to the Companys business acquisitions. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Lexmark assesses its goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment each fiscal year as of December 31 or between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that lead management to believe it is more likely than not that an impairment exists. Examples of such events or circumstances include a significant adverse change in the business climate, a significant decrease in the projected cash flows of a reporting unit, or a decline in the market capitalization of the overall Company below its carrying value. Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level. The Company generally considers both a discounted cash flow analysis, which requires judgments such as projected future earnings and weighted average cost of capital, as well as certain market based measurements, including multiples developed from prices paid in observed market transactions of comparable companies, in its estimation of fair value for goodwill impairment testing. The Company estimates the fair value of its trade names and trademarks indefinite lived intangible asset using the relief from royalty method. 44 Table of Contents Goodwill recognized by the Company at December 31, 2011 was $216.4 million and was allocated to the Perceptive Software and ISS reporting units in the amount of $193.5 million and $22.9 million, respectively. The fair values of these reporting units were substantially in excess of their carrying values on this date. Key assumptions to the valuation of Perceptive Software include its ability to expand internationally and the revenue growth that would be accelerated by such expansion. Applying a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair value of each reporting unit would not result in the Company failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives using the straight line method. In certain instances where consumption could be greater in the earlier years of the assets life, the Company has selected, as a compensating measure, a shorter period over which to amortize the asset. The Companys intangible assets with finite lives are tested for impairment in accordance with its policy for long lived assets below. Long Lived Assets Held and Used Lexmark performs reviews for the impairment of long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition are insufficient to recover the carrying value of the assets, then an impairment loss is recognized based upon the excess of the carrying value of the assets over the fair value of the assets. Such an impairment review incorporates estimates of forecasted revenue and costs that may be associated with an asset as well as the expected periods that an asset may be utilized. Fair value is determined based on the highest and best use of the assets considered from the perspective of market participants, which may be different than the Companys actual intended use of the asset. Lexmark also reviews any legal and contractual obligations associated with the retirement of its long lived assets and records assets and liabilities, as necessary, related to such obligations. The asset recorded is amortized over the useful life of the related long lived tangible asset. The liability recorded is relieved when the costs are incurred to retire the related long lived tangible asset. Each obligation is estimated based on current law and technology; accordingly, such estimates could change as the Company periodically evaluates and revises such estimates based on expenditures against established reserves and the availability of additional information. The Companys asset retirement obligations are currently not material to the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operations Overview Key Messages Lexmark is focused on driving long term performance by strategically investing in technology, hardware and software products and solutions to secure high value product installations and capture profitable supplies, software maintenance and service annuities in document intensive industries and business processes in distributed environments. While focusing on core strategic initiatives, Lexmark has taken actions over the last few years to improve its cost and expense structure. As a result of restructuring initiatives, significant changes have been implemented, from the consolidation and reduction of the manufacturing and support infrastructure to the increased use of shared service centers in low cost countries. Lexmark continues to maintain a strong financial position with good cash generation and a solid balance sheet, which positions it to prudently invest in the future of the business and successfully compete even during challenging times. Going forward, the Company plans to return more than 50 percent of free cash flow to its shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. 45 Table of Contents Business Factors Lexmarks 2011 results reflected revenue that decreased less than 1% compared to 2010. Supplies revenue was flat year to year (YTY), hardware revenue decreased 7% YTY, while software and other revenue increased 22% due to Perceptive Software. Operating income decreased less than 1% YTY, primarily due to the improvement in ISS operating income in 2011 versus 2010 driven by laser hardware revenue growth and improved margins. The improvement in ISS operating income was offset by increases in both development and marketing and sales expense principally due to the acquisition of and increased investment in Perceptive Software. Operating Results Summary The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. The following table summarizes the results of the Companys operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in Millions) Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Revenue $ 4,173.0 100.0 % $ 4,199.7 100.0 % $ 3,879.9 100.0 % Gross profit 1,580.6 37.9 1,519.5 36.2 1,309.8 33.8 Operating expense 1,137.7 27.3 1,072.6 25.5 1,093.7 28.2 Operating income 442.9 10.6 446.9 10.6 216.1 5.6 Net earnings 320.9 7.7 340.0 8.1 145.9 3.8 During 2011, total revenue was $4.2 billion, down less than 1% compared to 2010. Supplies revenue was flat YTY, hardware revenue decreased 7% YTY, and software and other grew 22% YTY. During 2010, total revenue was $4.2 billion or up 8% from 2009. Supplies revenue increased 6% YTY while hardware revenue increased 13% YTY. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased 6% from the prior year primarily due to an increase in income taxes combined with a 1% decrease in operating income. The Company recorded discrete tax items in 2011 that resulted in a higher tax provision and thus a higher effective tax rate compared to prior year. Net earnings in 2011 included $29.9 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs along with $29.4 million of pre tax acquisition related adjustments. The Company uses the term project costs for incremental charges related to the execution of its restructuring plans. The Company uses the term acquisition related adjustments for purchase accounting adjustments and incremental acquisition and integration costs related to acquisitions. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 133% from the prior year primarily due to higher operating income as well as lower restructuring related charges, somewhat offset by acquisition related charges. Net earnings in 2010 included $38.6 million of pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs along with $32.1 million of pre tax acquisition related adjustments. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs and Acquisition related Adjustments sections that follow for further discussion. 46 Table of Contents Revenue The following tables provide a breakdown of the Companys revenue by product category, hardware unit shipments and reportable segment: Revenue by product: (Dollars in Millions) 2011 2010 % Change 2010 2009 % Change Laser and Inkjet Hardware $ 989.0 $ 1,062.2 7 % $ 1,062.2 $ 938.8 13 % Laser and Inkjet Supplies 2,911.8 2,914.5 0 % 2,914.5 2,751.8 6 % Software and Other 272.2 223.0 22 % 223.0 189.3 18 % Total revenue $ 4,173.0 $ 4,199.7 1 % $ 4,199.7 $ 3,879.9 8 % Unit shipments: (Units in Millions) 2011 2010 2009 Laser units 1.6 1.7 1.5 Inkjet units 2.0 3.2 4.2 During 2011, supplies revenue was essentially flat YTY as growth in core laser and inkjet supplies was offset by a continuing decline in legacy inkjet supplies. Hardware revenue decreased 7%, primarily reflecting a decline in legacy consumer inkjet hardware, but also reflecting a smaller decline in core hardware. For core hardware, growth in high end core hardware was more than offset by declines in low end core hardware. Software and Other, which consists principally of hardware spare parts and related service revenue, as well as software licenses, subscription, professional services and maintenance revenue, increased 22% YTY reflecting strong growth in Perceptive Software offset by declines in parts and service ISS revenue. The 2011 results for Perceptive Software reflect full year financial results while 2010 results reflect activity occurring after Perceptive Software was acquired on June 7, 2010. As indicated earlier, the Company uses the term legacy to include hardware and supplies for consumer inkjet platforms. Core excludes legacy and includes laser, business inkjet, and dot matrix hardware and supplies and the associated features and services sold on a unit basis or through a managed services agreement. Core also includes parts and service related to hardware maintenance and includes software licenses and the associated software maintenance services sold on a unit basis or as a subscription service. The Companys focus continues to be on growing its core business while legacy continues to become a less significant portion of the Companys revenue mix. During 2010, supplies revenue increased 6% YTY as growth in laser supplies more than offset a continuing decline in inkjet supplies. Hardware revenue increased 13% primarily due to growth in laser hardware more than offsetting the decline in inkjet hardware. Software and Other revenue increased 18% YTY reflecting the impact of the acquisition of Perceptive Software in the second quarter of 2010. During 2011, 2010, and 2009, one customer, Dell, accounted for $415 million or approximately 10%, $461 million or approximately 11%, and $496 million or approximately 13% of the Companys total revenue, respectively. Sales to Dell are included in the ISS reportable segment. Revenue by reportable segment: (Dollars in Millions) 2011 2010 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ISS $ 4,078.2 $ 4,162.4 2 % $ 4,162.4 $ 3,879.9 7 % Perceptive Software 94.8 37.3 154 % 37.3 N/A Total revenue $ 4,173.0 $ 4,199.7 1 % $ 4,199.7 $ 3,879.9 8 % 47 Table of Contents ISS Segment During 2011, revenue in ISS decreased $84.2 million or 2% compared to 2010 due to the 7% decrease in hardware revenue. Strong revenue growth in high end hardware was more than offset by the decline in low end hardware, principally in inkjet. Supplies revenue during 2011 was essentially flat with 2010. The decrease in hardware revenue was driven by a 40% reduction in inkjet hardware revenue. Inkjet units declined 37% as the Company continues to exit the legacy consumer focused portion of the inkjet product line. Inkjet average unit revenue (AUR) decreased 4% YTY. Laser hardware revenue increased 2% YTY, driven by a 6% increase in AUR, again driven by improved product mix toward high end laser devices, which was partially offset by a 3% reduction in units due to lower unit sales of low end laser units. Supplies revenue was flat YTY as the 11% growth in core laser and inkjet supplies was more than offset by a 32% decline in legacy inkjet supplies. During 2010, revenue in ISS increased $282.5 million or 7% compared to 2009 due to a 13% increase in hardware revenue and a 6% increase in supplies revenue. The increased hardware revenue was due to a 23% growth in laser hardware revenue, partially offset by an 11% decline in inkjet hardware revenue. The higher laser revenue was driven by an 8% increase in laser hardware unit sales, further enhanced by a favorable mix impact. Laser hardware AUR, which reflects the change in pricing and mix, increased approximately 14% due to a positive mix shift towards workgroup laser products and laser MFPs. The decline in inkjet hardware revenue was due to a 23% decline in inkjet units, partially offset by a 15% improvement in AUR, both of those changes YTY originating from the continuous shift towards high end focused inkjets and away from low end devices. The supplies revenue grew 6% YTY, primarily driven by a strong unit growth in laser supplies, somewhat offset by a decline in inkjet supplies as a result of the decrease in the installed base of inkjet hardware devices. Perceptive Software Segment Perceptive Software was acquired by the Company on June 7, 2010. The 2010 financial results for Perceptive Software include only the activity occurring after the acquisition and is the primary reason behind the 154% increase in revenue compared to last year. For comparison purposes, revenue for Perceptive Software grew 69% in the second half of 2011 versus the second half of 2010. In addition, Pallas Athena was acquired by the Company on October 18, 2011. Activity occurring after the acquisition of Pallas Athena is included in the Perceptive Software reportable segment. Under the accounting guidance for business combinations, deferred revenue related to service contracts assumed as part of an acquisition must be recognized initially at fair value. As a result, the Company was not able to recognize as revenue in 2010 a large portion of the amortization of Perceptive Softwares deferred revenue that originated prior to acquisition. In addition, the Company was not able to recognize as revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011 a large portion of Pallas Athenas deferred revenue that originated prior to acquisition. After considering these acquisition related adjustments, revenue for 2011 increased 98% compared to 2010. After considering these acquisition related adjustments, revenue for the second half of 2011 increased 28% compared to the second half of 2010. See Acquisition related Adjustments section that follows for further discussion. 48 Table of Contents Revenue by geography: The following table provides a breakdown of the Companys revenue by geography: (Dollars in Millions) 2011 % of Total 2010 % of Total % Change 2010 2009 % of Total % Change United States $ 1,755.4 42 % $ 1,790.9 43 % 2 % $ 1,790.9 $ 1,672.1 43 % 7 % EMEA (Europe, the Middle East & Africa) $ 1,531.6 37 % 1,510.2 36 % 1 % 1,510.2 1,453.9 38 % 4 % Other International 886.0 21 % 898.6 21 % 1 % 898.6 753.9 19 % 19 % Total revenue $ 4,173.0 100 % $ 4,199.7 100 % 1 % $ 4,199.7 $ 3,879.9 100 % 8 % For 2011 currency exchange rates had a 2% favorable YTY impact on revenue. For 2010 currency exchange rates had an immaterial impact on revenue compared to 2009. Gross Profit The following table provides gross profit information: (Dollars in Millions) 2011 2010 Change 2010 2009 Change Gross profit dollars $ 1,580.6 $ 1,519.5 4% $ 1,519.5 $ 1,309.8 16% % of revenue 37.9% 36.2% 1.7 pts 36.2% 33.8% 2.4 pts During 2011, consolidated gross profit increased when compared to the prior year as did gross profit as a percentage of revenue. The gross profit margin versus the prior year was impacted by a 2.9 percentage point increase due to a favorable mix shift among products, driven by relatively less inkjet hardware, and growth in laser supplies and software. Partially offsetting this was a 1.5 percentage point decrease YTY due to unfavorable product margins, predominately inkjet hardware. Gross profit margin was also impacted by a 0.3 percentage point increase due to lower YTY cost of restructuring and acquisition related activities. Gross profit in 2011 included $5.2 million of restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities as well as $20.4 million of pre tax acquisition related adjustments. Gross profit for 2011 includes the first full year of Perceptive Software financial results. During 2010, consolidated gross profit increased when compared to the prior year as did gross profit as a percentage of revenue. The gross profit margin increase versus the prior year was primarily due to a 2.5 percentage point increase resulting from higher product margins. Gross profit margins were also favorably impacted by 0.9 percentage points due to lower restructuring related costs YTY. The unfavorable mix shift among products, reflecting a higher percentage of hardware versus supplies, had a 0.7 percentage point negative impact on gross profit percentage versus the prior year. Also, acquisition related costs incurred in 2010 had a 0.5 percentage point negative impact on gross profit margin percentage, as there were no acquisition related costs incurred in 2009. Gross profit in 2010 included $17.4 million of restructuring related charges and project costs in connection with the Companys restructuring activities as well as $22.1 million of pre tax acquisition related adjustments. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs and Acquisition related Adjustments sections that follow for further discussion. 49 Table of Contents Operating Expense The following table presents information regarding the Companys operating expenses during the periods indicated: 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in Millions) Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Dollars % of Rev Research and development $ 374.5 9.0% $ 369.0 8.8% $ 375.3 9.7% Selling, general & administrative 761.2 18.2% 701.2 16.7% 647.8 16.7% Restructuring and related charges 2.0 0.0% 2.4 0.0% 70.6 1.8% Total operating expense $ 1,137.7 27.3% $ 1,072.6 25.5% $ 1,093.7 28.2% Research and development expenses increased in 2011 versus last year primarily reflecting higher expenses due to Perceptive Software and the fact that 2011 contains the full year results of Perceptive Software operating expenses, offset slightly by a decrease in ISS development spending. Research and development decreased in 2010 compared to the prior year as the benefits of the restructuring actions were partially offset by higher result based compensation as well as the addition of Perceptive Software in the second quarter of 2010. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses in 2011 increased YTY due principally to the acquisition of Perceptive Software, as well as increased expenses in ISS and All other, principally due to currency. SG&A expenses in 2010 increased YTY due to the addition of Perceptive Software in the second quarter of 2010 and higher result based compensation, partially offset by the benefits of the restructuring actions completed in 2009 and 2010. SG&A expenses for the periods presented in the table above include expenses related to the Companys restructuring activities along with acquisition related charges. See discussion below of restructuring related charges and project costs and acquisition related adjustments included in the Companys operating expenses for the years presented in the table above. In 2011, the Company incurred $24.7 million of pre tax restructuring and related charges and project costs in operating expense due to the Companys restructuring plans. Of the $24.7 million incurred in 2011, $22.7 million is included in Selling, general and administrative while $2.0 million is included in Restructuring and related charges (reversals) on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Additionally, the Company incurred $9.0 million of pre tax costs associated with acquisition related adjustments. Of the $9.0 million incurred in 2011, $0.4 million is included in Research and development, and $8.6 million is included in Selling, general, and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. In 2010, the Company recognized $21.2 million of restructuring related charges and project costs in operating expense due to the Companys restructuring plans. Of the $21.2 million incurred in 2010, $18.8 million is included in Selling, general and administrative while $2.4 million is included in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Additionally, the Company incurred $10.0 million of pre tax costs associated with the acquisition of Perceptive Software included in Selling, general, and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. In 2009, the Company incurred $89.8 million of restructuring related charges and project costs due to the Companys restructuring plans. Of the $89.8 million of total restructuring related charges and project costs incurred in 2009, $19.2 million is included in Selling, general and administrative while $70.6 million is included in Restructuring and related charges on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs and Acquisition related Adjustments sections that follow for further discussion of the Companys restructuring plans and acquisitions. 50 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss) The following table provides operating income by reportable segment: (Dollars in Millions) 2011 2010 Change 2010 2009 Change ISS $ 764.5 $ 744.6 3 % $ 744.6 $ 487.3 53 % % of revenue 18.7 % 17.9 % 0.8 pts 17.9 % 12.6 % 5.3 pts Perceptive Software (29.6 ) (16.1 ) 84 % (16.1 ) % of revenue 31.2 % 43.2 % 12.0 pts 43.2 % All other (292.0 ) (281.6 ) 4 % (281.6 ) (271.2 ) 4 % Total operating income (loss) $ 442.9 $ 446.9 1 % $ 446.9 $ 216.1 107 % % of total revenue 10.6 % 10.6 % 0 pts 10.6 % 5.6 % 5 pts For the year ended December 31, 2011, the decrease in consolidated operating income was primarily in the Perceptive Software segment, offset slightly by improvement in operating income (loss) for the ISS segment due to laser hardware revenue growth and improved margins, as well as improved hardware mix. The operating loss on the Perceptive Software segment was driven by an increase in both development and marketing and sales expense ahead of revenue growth. For Perceptive Software, operating income (loss) includes the full year results for 2011 as well as activities subsequent to the acquisition for 2010. The Company acquired Perceptive Software on June 7, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the increase in consolidated operating income was primarily due to an increased gross profit, together with a reduction of operating expenses in ISS. During 2011, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs of $16.6 million in ISS and $13.3 million in All other, as well as pre tax acquisition related items of $26.1 million primarily in Perceptive Software and $3.3 million in All other. During 2010, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs of $29.4 million in ISS and $9.2 million in All other as well as pre tax acquisition related items of $25.0 million primarily in Perceptive Software and $7.1 million in All other. During 2009, the Company incurred total pre tax restructuring related charges and project costs of $109 million in ISS and $32.3 million in All other. See Restructuring and Related Charges and Project Costs and Acquisition related Adjustments sections that follow for further discussion. Interest and Other The following table provides interest and other information: (Dollars in Millions) 2011 2010 2009 Interest (income) expense, net $ 29.9 $ 26.3 $ 21.4 Other (income) expense, net (0.6 ) (1.2 ) 4.6 Net impairment losses on securities 0.3 3.1 Total interest and other (income) expense, net $ 29.3 $ 25.4 $ 29.1 Total interest and other (income) expense, net, was expense of $29.3 million in 2011 compared to expense of $25.4 million in 2010. The 2011 net expense increase YTY was primarily due to lower interest income from declining interest rates on the Companys investments. Total interest and other (income) expense, net, was expense of $25.4 million in 2010 compared to expense of $29.1 million in 2009. The 2010 net expense decrease YTY was primarily due to lower impairment losses on securities, increased realized gains on the sale of marketable securities as well 51 Table of Contents as the non recurrence of the write down of a private equity investment. These factors were offset partially by the continued lower interest income from declining interest rates on the Companys investments. Provision for Income Taxes and Related Matters The Companys effective income tax rate was approximately 22.4%, 19.3% and 22.0% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for a reconciliation of the Companys effective tax rate to the U.S. statutory rate. The 3.1 percentage point increase of the effective tax rate from 2010 to 2011 was due to the adjustments to previously accrued taxes in 2011 compared to 2010 (increase of 2.3 percentage points), a geographic shift in earnings toward higher tax jurisdictions in 2011 (increase of 0.9 percentage points), the U.S. R&E credit being a larger percentage of consolidated earnings before income taxes in 2011 (decrease of 0.2 percentage points), and a variety of other factors (increase of 0.1 percentage points). The 2.7 percentage point decrease of the effective tax rate from 2009 to 2010 was due to the reversal of previously accrued taxes in 2010 (decrease of 2.5 percentage points), a geographic shift in earnings toward lower tax jurisdictions in 2010 (decrease of 0.8 percentage points), the U.S. research and experimentation (R&E) credit being a smaller percentage of consolidated earnings before income taxes in 2010 (increase of 1.4 percentage points), and a variety of other factors (decrease of 0.8 percentage points). Net Earnings and Earnings per Share The following table summarizes net earnings and basic and diluted net earnings per share: (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 Net Earnings $ 320.9 $ 340.0 $ 145.9 Basic earnings per share $ 4.16 $ 4.33 $ 1.87 Diluted earnings per share $ 4.12 $ 4.28 $ 1.86 Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased 6% from the prior year primarily due to an increase in the effective tax rate as well as lower operating income and higher net interest expense. For 2011, the YTY decreases in basic and diluted earnings per share were primarily attributable to decreased earnings offset partially by the decreases in the average number of shares outstanding, due to the Companys stock repurchases. Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 133% from the prior year primarily due to higher operating income. The higher operating income versus 2009 was due to good revenue growth and stronger gross profit margins, which also benefited from a reduced net impact of restructuring costs and acquisition related adjustments. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the increases in basic and diluted net earnings per share YTY were primarily attributable to increased net earnings. Natural Disasters in Japan and Thailand On March 11, 2011, northeastern Japan experienced a devastating earthquake and tsunami off of the Pacific coast. These events have had a significant negative impact on the Japanese economy. Although the Company did not experience any significant damage to its products or other assets, the Companys supply chain was impacted, as a number of technology components are sourced from suppliers in northern Japan. However, the Company has identified and implemented alternative sources. For 2011, the Company experienced a limited impact on hardware availability and incurred 52 Table of Contents additional expenses including product engineering expenses, costs related to the certification of new parts and suppliers and increased freight expense. These additional costs, after the consideration of insurance recoveries, were not material. For 2012, the Company does not expect to face any supplies availability issues related to the Japan crisis. In recent years, sales in Japan have made up less than 1% of the Companys total revenue. Flooding in Thailand in the second half of calendar year 2011 significantly impacted much of the countrys industrial and manufacturing plants. Although the Company does not have a significant manufacturing or logistics presence in Thailand, the Company does have a number of suppliers that were impacted by this crisis. The Company has worked closely with suppliers to understand the impacts to the supply of materials and components and developed alternative solutions as needed. The crisis impacts only a portion of the Companys laser and inkjet hardware product lines, and has no direct impact on the delivery of supplies. The Company expects to incur costs of $10 $15 million, net of anticipated insurance recoveries, in the first quarter of 2012 related to the Thailand floods. Costs beyond the first quarter of 2012 are expected to be less than $5 million. These costs principally reflect the expediting costs and increased cost of components and local manufacturing to improve hardware availability to meet demand. Although the Company believes the majority of these costs will be covered by insurance, recoveries from insurance may not be recognized in the same period as the incurred costs due to the nature and timing of the claims review process. It is likely that a majority of the recovery of these costs will be reflected later in 2012. RESTRUCTURING AND RELATED CHARGES AND PROJECT COSTS Summary of Restructuring Impacts The Companys 2011 financial results are impacted by its restructuring plans and related projects. Project costs consist of additional charges related to the execution of the restructuring plans. These project costs are incremental to the Companys normal operating charges and are expensed as incurred, and include such items as compensation costs for overlap staffing, travel expenses, consulting costs and training costs. As part of Lexmarks ongoing strategy to increase the focus of its talent and resources on higher usage business platforms, the Company announced restructuring actions (the January 2012 Restructuring Plan) on January 31, 2012. This action will better align the Companys sales and marketing resources with its business customer focus, adjust manufacturing capacity in its declining legacy product lines, and align and reduce our support structure consistent with our focus on business customers. The Company expects to redeploy a significant portion of the savings from these initiatives towards business products, solutions and channels. The January 2012 Restructuring Plan includes reductions primarily in the areas of manufacturing, marketing, sales and other infrastructure. The Company expects these actions to be principally complete by the end of the first quarter of 2013. The January 2012 Restructuring Plan is expected to impact about 625 positions worldwide and will result in total pre tax charges, including project costs, of approximately $35 million, with total cash cost expected to be approximately $24 million. Lexmark expects the January 2012 Restructuring Plan to generate savings of approximately $15 million in 2012 and ongoing cash savings beginning in 2013 of approximately $28 million. These ongoing savings should be split approximately 80% to operating expense and 20% to cost of revenue. Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of October 2009 Restructuring Plan and the Other Restructuring Actions. The October 2009 Restructuring Plan and the Other Restructuring Actions are substantially completed and any remaining charges to be incurred are expected to be immaterial. The October 2009 Restructuring Plan is expected to impact about 770 positions worldwide. Total pre tax charges, including project costs, of approximately $120 million are expected for the October 53 Table of Contents 2009 Restructuring Plan, with total cash cost expected to be approximately $108 million. Lexmark expects the October 2009 Restructuring Plan to generate ongoing savings beginning in 2012 of approximately $110 million with ongoing cash savings beginning in 2012 of approximately $105 million. These ongoing savings should be split approximately 60% to operating expense and 40% to cost of revenue. Including $98.6 million of charges incurred in 2010 and 2009, the Company has incurred $116.0 million of total charges for the October 2009 Restructuring Plan. Refer to Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a rollforward of the liability incurred for the January 2012 Restructuring Plan, the October 2009 Restructuring Plan and the Other Restructuring Actions. Impact to 2011 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company incurred charges (reversals), including project costs, of $29.9 million for the Companys restructuring plans as follows: (Dollars in millions) January 2012Restructuring relatedCharges(Note 5) January 2012Restructuring relatedProjectCosts January2012Total October 2009Restructuring relatedCharges(Note 5) October 2009Restructuring relatedProjectCosts October2009Total Other ActionsRestructuring relatedCharges(Note 5) Other ActionsRestructuring relatedProjectCosts OtherActionsTotal Total Accelerated depreciation charges $ 4.5 $ $ 4.5 $ 2.3 $ $ 2.3 $ 0.1 $ $ 0.1 $ 6.9 Impairments on long lived assets held for sale 4.6 4.6 4.6 Employee termination benefit charges 3.1 3.1 (1.2 ) (1.2 ) 0.2 0.2 2.1 Contract termination and lease charges (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Project costs 16.4 16.4 16.4 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 7.6 $ $ 7.6 $ 1.0 $ 16.4 $ 17.4 $ 4.9 $ $ 4.9 $ 29.9 The Company incurred accelerated depreciation charges of $4.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively, in Cost of revenue and Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Impairment charges of $4.6 million related to long lived assets held for sale are included in Selling, general and administrative, and total employee termination benefit and contract termination and lease charges of $2.0 million are included in Restructuring and related charges on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Restructuring related project costs of $0.7 million and $15.7 million, respectively, are included in Cost of revenue and Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the January 2012 Restructuring Plan of $7.6 million in ISS. The Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the October 2009 Restructuring Plan of $7.5 million in ISS and $9.9 million in All other. The Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the Other Restructuring Actions of $1.5 million in ISS and $3.4 million in All other. In 2011, the Company recorded impairment charges of $1.0 million related to its manufacturing facility in Juarez, Mexico, and $3.6 million related to one of its support facilities in Orleans, France for which the current fair values had fallen below the carrying values. The asset impairment charges are included in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Subsequent to the impairment charge, the Juarez, Mexico facility was sold and the Company recognized a $0.6 million pre tax gain on the sale that is included in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. This gain is included in the $29.9 million total restructuring related charges presented above as project costs related to the Companys Other Restructuring Actions. 54 Table of Contents Impact to 2010 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred charges (reversals), including project costs, of $38.6 million for the Companys restructuring plans as follows: (Dollars in millions) October 2009Restructuring relatedCharges(Note 5) October 2009Restructuring relatedProjectCosts October2009Total Other ActionsRestructuring relatedCharges(Note 5) Other ActionsRestructuring relatedProjectCosts OtherActionsTotal Total Accelerated depreciation charges $ 3.5 $ $ 3.5 $ 2.4 $ $ 2.4 $ 5.9 Employee termination benefit charges 1.5 1.5 (1.6 ) (1.6 ) (0.1 ) Contract termination and lease charges 3.4 3.4 (0.9 ) (0.9 ) 2.5 Project costs 26.7 26.7 3.6 3.6 30.3 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 8.4 $ 26.7 $ 35.1 $ (0.1 ) $ 3.6 $ 3.5 $ 38.6 The Company incurred accelerated depreciation charges of $4.1 million and $1.8 million, respectively, in Cost of revenue and Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Employee termination benefit and contract termination and lease charges of $2.4 million are included in Restructuring and related charges, and $13.3 million and $17.0 million, respectively, of restructuring related project costs are included in Cost of Revenue and Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the October 2009 Restructuring Plan of $27.0 million in ISS and $8.1 million in All other. The Company incurred restructuring and related charges (reversals) and project costs related to the Other Restructuring Actions of $2.4 million in ISS and $1.1 million in All other. Related to the Companys Other Restructuring Actions, the $(1.6) million reversal for employee termination benefit charges is due primarily to revisions in assumptions. The $(0.9) million reversal for contract termination and lease charges is due to the Companys decision to reuse a leased building that had earlier been vacated as a result of restructuring actions. In 2010, the Company sold one of its inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Chihuahua, Mexico for $5.6 million and recognized a $0.5 million pre tax gain on the sale that is included in Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. This gain is included in the $38.6 million total restructuring related charges presented above as project costs related to the Companys Other Restructuring Actions. Impact to 2009 Financial Results For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred charges, including project costs, of $141.3 million for the Companys restructuring plans as follows: (Dollars in millions) October 2009Restructuring relatedCharges(Note 5) October 2009Restructuring relatedProjectCosts October2009Total Other ActionsRestructuring relatedCharges(Note 5) Other ActionsRestructuring relatedProjectCosts OtherActionsTotal Total Accelerated depreciation charges $ 6.2 $ $ 6.2 $ 35.3 $ $ 35.3 $ 41.5 Employee termination benefit charges 52.4 52.4 16.8 16.8 69.2 Contract termination and lease charges 1.0 1.0 0.4 0.4 1.4 Project costs 3.9 3.9 25.3 25.3 29.2 Total restructuring related charges/project costs $ 59.6 $ 3.9 $ 63.5 $ 52.5 $ 25.3 $ 77.8 $ 141.3 55 Table of Contents The Company incurred accelerated depreciation charges of $41.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively, in Cost of revenue and Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Employee termination benefit and contract termination and lease charges of $70.6 million are included in Restructuring and related charges, and $10.1 million and $19.1 million, respectively, of restructuring related project costs are included in Cost of revenue and Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the October 2009 Restructuring Plan of $51.2 million in ISS and $12.3 million in All other. The Company incurred restructuring and related charges and project costs related to the Other Restructuring Actions of $57.8 million in ISS and $20.0 million in All other. ACQUISITION RELATED ADJUSTMENTS In connection with acquisitions, Lexmark incurs costs and adjustments (referred to as acquisition related adjustments) that affect the Companys financial results. These acquisition related adjustments result from business combination accounting rules as well as expenses that would otherwise have not been incurred by the Company if acquisitions had not taken place. The following pre tax acquisition related adjustments affected the Companys 2011 financial results. (Dollars in Millions) 2011 2010 Adjustment to revenue $ 4.9 $ 13.0 Amortization of intangible assets 21.2 12.0 Acquisition and integration costs 3.3 7.1 Total acquisition related adjustments $ 29.4 $ 32.1 Adjustments to revenue result from business combination accounting rules when deferred revenue balances for service contracts assumed as part of acquisitions are adjusted down to fair value. Fair value approximates the cost of fulfilling the service obligation, plus a reasonable profit margin. Subsequent to acquisitions, the Company analyzes the amount of amortized revenue that would have been recognized had the acquired company remained independent and had the deferred revenue balances not been adjusted to fair value. The $4.9 million and $13.0 million downward adjustments to revenue for 2011 and 2010, respectively, are reflected in Revenue presented on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Downward adjustments to Revenue for the second half of 2011 and the second half of 2010 were $1.4 million and $11.0 million, respectively. The Company expects future pre tax adjustments to deferred revenue to be immaterial. Due to business combination accounting rules, intangible assets are recognized as a result of acquisitions which were not previously presented on the balance sheet of the acquired company. These intangible assets consist primarily of purchased technology, customer relationships, trade names, in process R&D and non compete agreements. Subsequent to the acquisition date, some of these intangible assets begin amortizing and represent an expense that would not have been recorded had the acquired company remained independent. During 2011 and 2010, the Company incurred $15.5 million and $9.1 million, respectively, in Cost of revenue and $5.3 million and $2.9 million, respectively, in Selling, general and administrative, as well as $0.4 million in Research and development during 2011 on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings for amortization of intangible assets. For 2012, the Company expects pre tax charges for the amortization of intangible assets to be approximately $24 million. In connection with its acquisitions, the Company incurs acquisition and integration expenses that would not have been incurred otherwise. The acquisition costs include items such as investment banking fees, legal and accounting fees, and costs of retention bonus programs for the senior management of 56 Table of Contents the acquired company. Integration costs may consist of information technology expenses, consulting costs and travel expenses. The costs are expensed as incurred. During 2011 and 2010, the Company incurred $3.3 million and $7.1 million, respectively, in Selling, general and administrative on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings for acquisition and integration costs. The Company expects pre tax adjustments for acquisition and integration expenses of approximately $3 million for 2012. Adjustments to revenue and amortization of intangible assets were recognized primarily in the Perceptive Software reportable segment. Acquisition and integration costs were recognized in All other. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT PLANS The following table provides the total pre tax cost related to Lexmarks pension and other postretirement plans for the years 2011, 2010, and 2009. Cost amounts are included as an addition to the Companys cost and expense amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. (Dollars in Millions) 2011 2010 2009 Total cost of pension and other postretirement plans $ 42.9 $ 38.8 $ 41.2 Comprised of: Defined benefit pension plans $ 18.0 $ 15.4 $ 20.3 Defined contribution plans 25.6 23.6 21.4 Other postretirement plans (0.7 ) (0.2 ) (0.5 ) Changes in actuarial assumptions did not have a significant impact on the Companys results of operations in 2009, 2010 and 2011, nor are they expected to have a material effect in 2012. Future effects of retirement related benefits on the operating results of the Company depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates and investment performance. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement plans. Because the Company defers current year differences between actual and expected asset returns on equity and high yield bond investments over the subsequent five years in accordance with prescribed accounting guidelines, pension expense for 2011 and 2010 was impacted $3 million and $4 million, respectively. The funding requirement for single employer defined pension plans under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act) are largely based on a plans calculated funded status, with faster amortization of any shortfalls. The Act directs the U.S. Treasury Department to develop a new yield curve to discount pension obligations for determining the funded status of a plan when calculating the funding requirements. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Financial Position Lexmarks financial position remains strong at December 31, 2011, with working capital of $1,085.5 million compared to $1,023.3 million at December 31, 2010. The $62.2 million increase in working capital accounts was primarily due to the $74.2 million decrease in Accrued liabilities driven by the decrease in the liability related to annual bonuses. The Company resumed its share repurchase program in 2011, which reduced cash and stockholders equity by $250 million during the year. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had senior note debt of $649.3 million and $649.1 million, respectively. The Company had no amounts outstanding under its U.S. trade receivables financing program or its revolving credit facility at December 31, 2011 or December 31, 2010. 57 Table of Contents The debt to total capital ratio was stable at 32% at December 31, 2011 and at December 31, 2010. The debt to total capital ratio is calculated by dividing the Companys outstanding debt by the sum of its outstanding debt and total stockholders equity. Liquidity The following table summarizes the results of the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years indicated: (Dollars in Millions) 2011 2010 2009 Net cash flows provided by (used for): Operating activities $ 391.0 $ 520.4 $ 402.2 Investing activities (96.9 ) (630.6 ) (228.2 ) Financing activities (272.3 ) (12.3 ) 3.8 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (3.2 ) 0.7 2.3 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 18.6 $ (121.8 ) $ 180.1 The Companys primary source of liquidity has been cash generated by operations, which totaled $391 million, $520.4 million, and $402.2 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Cash from operations generally has been sufficient to allow the Company to fund its working capital needs and finance its capital expenditures and acquisitions. Management believes that cash provided by operations will continue to be sufficient on a worldwide basis to meet operating and capital needs as well as the funding of expected dividends and share repurchases for the next twelve months. However, in the event that cash from operations is not sufficient, the Company has substantial cash and cash equivalents and current marketable securities balances and other potential sources of liquidity through utilization of its trade receivables financing program and revolving credit facility or access to the private and public debt markets. The Company may choose to use these sources of liquidity from time to time, including during 2012, to fund strategic acquisitions, dividends, and or share repurchases. As of December 31, 2011, the Company held $1,149.4 million in Cash and cash equivalents and current Marketable securities. The Companys ability to fund operations from this balance could be limited by the liquidity in the market as well as possible tax implications of moving proceeds across jurisdictions. Of this amount, approximately $988.4 million of Cash and cash equivalents and current Marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries. The Company utilizes a variety of financing strategies with the objective of having its worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed. However, if amounts held by foreign subsidiaries were needed to fund operations in the United States the Company could be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate a large portion of these funds. The Companys intent is to permanently reinvest undistributed earnings of low tax rate foreign subsidiaries and current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund operations in the United States. As of December 31, 2010, the Company held $1,217.2 million in Cash and cash equivalents and current Marketable securities. Of this amount, approximately $754.0 million of Cash and cash equivalents and current Marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries. A discussion of the Companys additional sources of liquidity is included in the Financing activities section to follow. Operating activities The Company continues to generate significant annual cash flow from operations. After the strong recovery in earnings and cash flows in 2010 versus 2009, cash flow from operations in 2011 decreased to $391 million, reflecting higher cash outlays as well as the decline in net earnings. 58 Table of Contents The $129.4 million decrease in cash flow from operating activities from 2010 to 2011 was driven by the following factors. The decrease in Accrued liabilities and unfavorable change in Other assets and liabilities, collectively, was $191.6 million more in 2011 than in 2010. The largest factors behind the YTY movement included annual incentive compensation payments, cash paid for income taxes, pension funding and increase in capital lease receivable. Annual incentive compensation payments were approximately $65 million in 2011 compared to $29 million in 2010, driven by the improvement in 2010 full year results compared to that of 2009. Cash paid for income taxes was $93 million in 2011, compared to $77 million in 2010. The Company also made approximately $31 million of pension and post retirement plan payments in 2011 compared to the net contribution of $9 million in 2010. The increase of capital lease receivable YTY generated an additional unfavorable impact of $32 million and is due to the growth in managed print services arrangements in 2011. Accounts payable decreased $50.6 million in 2011 while they increased $22.7 million in 2010. The decrease in 2011 is driven by the shorter payment cycle along with decreased spending levels. The activities above were partially offset by the following factors. Trade receivables balances decreased $24 million in 2011 while they increased $28.5 million in 2010, excluding receivables recognized on the date of acquisitions. This $52.5 million fluctuation between the activity in 2011 and that of 2010 is driven by the timing of revenue in the fourth quarter as well as less delinquencies. Inventories decreased $30.6 million in 2011 while they increased $8.8 million in 2010. This $39.4 million fluctuation results from decreased spending in 2011 relative to 2010. Refer to the contractual cash obligations table that follows for additional information regarding items that will likely impact the Companys future cash flows. The $118.2 million increase in cash flow from operating activities from 2009 to 2010 was driven by the following factors. Net earnings increased $194.1 million for 2010 as compared to 2009. The non cash adjustment for depreciation and amortization decreased $15.8 million YTY driven by the decrease in accelerated depreciation in 2010 related to the Companys restructuring actions. Accounts payable increased $22.7 million in 2010 and decreased $47.8 million in 2009. The $70.5 million fluctuation between the activity in 2010 and that of 2009 is primarily driven by greater demand in 2010 coupled with a longer payment cycle. Furthermore, the year end Accounts payable balance was considerably higher at December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2009 and is a significant factor in the Companys 2009 and 2010 cash flows, respectively. The activities above were partially offset by the following factors. Inventories balances increased $8.8 million in 2010 and decreased $81.2 million in 2009. The $90.0 million fluctuation between the activity in 2010 and that of 2009 is primarily due to actions taken by the Company in 2009 in response to challenging economic conditions that negatively impacted the Company at that time. Trade receivables balances increased $28.5 million in 2010 (excluding receivables recognized on the date of acquisition of Perceptive Software) and decreased $2.3 million in 2009. The $30.8 million 59 Table of Contents fluctuation between the activity in 2010 and that of 2009 is primarily driven by the increase in revenues in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. The increase in the Companys days of sales outstanding at year end 2010 was largely due to the timing of sales as indicated by the slight improvement in delinquent receivables at year end 2010 compared to year end 2009. The net decrease in Accrued liabilities and Other assets and liabilities, collectively, was $4.7 million less in 2010 compared to that of 2009. The fluctuation between the activity in 2010 and that of 2009 was the result of various offsetting factors, including both cash transactions as well as the effect of accruals of expected future operating cash receipts and payments. Notable fluctuations in cash transactions included pension funding and cash paid for income taxes. The Company made $92.4 million of pension and postretirement payments in 2009, driven by the steep decline in the fair value of pension plan assets in late 2008, compared to only $8.7 million in 2010. Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds, was $77.4 million in 2010 compared to $41.3 million in 2009. Cash conversion days 2011 2010 2009 Days of sales outstanding 39 39 36 Days of inventory 45 46 47 Days of payables 66 68 67 Cash conversion days 18 18 16 Cash conversion days represent the number of days that elapse between the day the Company pays for materials and the day it collects cash from its customers. Cash conversion days are equal to the days of sales outstanding plus days of inventory less days of payables. The days of sales outstanding are calculated using the period end Trade receivables balance, net of allowances, and the average daily revenue for the quarter. The days of inventory are calculated using the period end net Inventories balance and the average daily cost of revenue for the quarter. The days of payables are calculated using the period end Accounts payable balance and the average daily cost of revenue for the quarter. Please note that cash conversion days presented above may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other registrants. The cash conversion days in the table above may not foot due to rounding. Investing activities The $533.7 million decrease in net cash flows used for investing activities during 2011 compared to that of 2010 was driven by the $298.5 million YTY net decrease in marketable securities investments as well as the $232.1 million decrease in business acquisitions. The $402.4 million increase in net cash flows used for investing activities during 2010 compared to that of 2009 was driven by the $263.4 million YTY increase in business acquisitions as well as the $226.3 million YTY net increase in marketable securities investments. This activity was offset partially by the $80.8 million YTY decrease in capital spending. 60 Table of Contents The Companys business acquisitions, marketable securities and capital expenditures are discussed below. Business acquisitions In 2011, cash flow used to acquire businesses was lower than 2010 due to the relatively smaller acquisition of Pallas Athena compared to Perceptive Software. Pallas Athena, which was acquired at a purchase price of $41.4 million, is a BPM, DOM, and process mining software company that complements the product range offered by Perceptive Software. In 2010, the YTY increase in cash flows used to acquire businesses was driven by the acquisition of Perceptive Software in the second quarter of 2010 for $280 million cash consideration, or $266.8 million net of cash acquired. Perceptive Software is an ECM software company and a provider of a broad range of strong industry solutions. The acquisition enables Lexmark to immediately participate in the adjacent, growing market segment of ECM software solutions. It also provides additional revenue streams in software maintenance and professional services that are not paper usage dependent. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding business combinations. Marketable securities The Company decreased its marketable securities investments in 2011 by $96.4 million .The Company increased its marketable securities investments in 2010 by $202.1 million. The Company decreased its marketable securities investments in 2009 by $24.2 million. The Company decreased its investment in marketable securities in 2011 in order to fund the share repurchases as well as the first dividend payment in the fourth quarter. The Companys investments in marketable securities are classified and accounted for as available for sale and reported at fair value. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Companys marketable securities portfolio consisted of asset backed and mortgage backed securities, corporate debt securities, preferred and municipal debt securities, U.S. government and agency debt securities, international government securities, certificates of deposit and commercial paper. The Companys auction rate securities, valued at $11.5 million and $18.0 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, were reported in the noncurrent assets section of the Companys Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. During the second quarter of 2011, the Company received $6.6 million related to two of the Companys auction rate securities that were fully redeemed at par by the issuers. The marketable securities portfolio held by the Company contains market risk (including interest rate risk) and credit risk. These risks are managed through the Companys investment policy and investment management contracts with professional asset managers which require sector diversification, limitations on maturity and duration, minimum credit quality and other criteria. The Company also maintains adequate issuer diversification through strict issuer limits except for securities issued by the U.S. government or its agencies. The Companys ability to access the portfolio to fund operations could be limited by the liquidity in the market as well as possible tax implications of moving proceeds across jurisdictions. The Company assesses its marketable securities for other than temporary declines in value in accordance with the model provided under the FASBs amended guidance, which was adopted in the second quarter of 2009. The Company has disclosed in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates portion of Managements Discussion and Analysis its policy regarding the factors it considers and significant judgments made in applying the amended guidance. There were no major developments 61 Table of Contents during 2011 with respect to OTTI of the Companys marketable securities. Specifically regarding the Companys auction rate securities, the most illiquid securities in the portfolio, Lexmark has previously recognized OTTI on only one security due to credit events involving the issuer and the insurer. Because of the Companys liquidity position, it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the auction rate securities until liquidity in the market or optional issuer redemption occurs. The Company could also hold the securities to maturity if it chooses. Additionally, if Lexmark required capital, the Company has available liquidity through its accounts receivable program and revolving credit facility. Given these circumstances, the Company would only have to recognize OTTI on its auction rate securities if the present value of the expected cash flows is less than the amortized cost of the individual security. There have been no realized losses from the sale or redemption of auction rate securities. Level 3 fair value measurements are based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall valuation. Level 3 measurements were 4.5% of the Companys total available for sale marketable securities portfolio at December 31, 2011 compared to 3.1% at December 31, 2010. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding marketable securities. Capital expenditures The Company invested $156.5 million, $161.2 million, and $242 million into Property, plant and equipment for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Further discussion regarding 2011 capital expenditures as well as anticipated spending for 2012 are provided near the end of Item 7. Financing activities The fluctuations in the net cash flows used for financing activities were principally due to the Companys share repurchases. In 2011, cash flows used for financing activities were $272.3 million, due mainly to share repurchases of $250 million, dividend payment of $18 million as well as the $7.1 million repayment of debt assumed by the Company in the fourth quarter acquisition of Pallas Athena. In 2010, cash flows used for financing activities were $12.3 million due mainly to the decrease in bank overdrafts of $10.0 million included in Other as well as the $3.1 million repayment of long term debt that was assumed by the Company in the second quarter acquisition of Perceptive Software. In 2009, cash flows provided by financing activities were $3.8 million due mainly to the increase in bank overdrafts of $9.9 million included in Other offset partially by the $6.6 million decrease in short term debt of the Companys subsidiary in Brazil during the period. Refer to the sections that follow for additional information regarding these financing activities. Intra period financing activities Bank overdrafts and other financing sources were utilized to supplement daily cash needs of the Company and its subsidiaries in 2011. Such borrowings were repaid in very short periods of time, generally in a matter of few days, and were not material to the Companys overall liquidity position or its financial statements. Share repurchases and dividend payments The Companys objective going forward is to return more than 50 percent of free cash flow (after operating and capital investment needs) to its shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. During 2011, the Company repurchased approximately 7.9 million shares of its Class A Common Stock at a cost of $250 million through two accelerated share repurchase agreements executed during the 62 Table of Contents period. As of December 31, 2011, there was approximately $241 million of remaining share repurchase authority from the Board of Directors. This repurchase authority allows the Company, at managements discretion, to selectively repurchase its stock from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon market price and other factors. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding share repurchases. The Company did not repurchase any shares of its Class A Common Stock in 2010 or 2009. On October 27, 2011, the Companys board declared its first dividend of $0.25 per share on outstanding Class A common stock which was paid on November 30, 2011, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on November 15, 2011. The quarterly rate represents an annualized dividend of $1.00 per share. On February 23, 2012, subsequent to the date of the financial statements, the Companys Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.25 per share. The cash dividend will be paid on March 16, 2012, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 5, 2012. Future declarations of quarterly dividends are subject to approval by the Board of Directors and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change. Senior Notes Long term Debt In May 2008, the Company repaid its $150 million principal amount of 6.75% senior notes that were due on May 15, 2008. Subsequently, in May 2008, the Company completed a public debt offering of $650 million aggregate principal amount of fixed rate senior unsecured notes. The notes are split into two tranches of five and ten year notes respectively. The five year notes with an aggregate principal amount of $350 million and 5.9% coupon were priced at 99.83% to have an effective yield to maturity of 5.939% and will mature June 1, 2013 (referred to as the 2013 senior notes). The ten year notes with an aggregate principal amount of $300 million and 6.65% coupon were priced at 99.73% to have an effective yield to maturity of 6.687% and will mature June 1, 2018 (referred to as the 2018 senior notes). At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the outstanding balance of senior note debt was $649.3 million and $649.1 million, respectively, net of discount. The 2013 and 2018 senior notes (collectively referred to as the senior notes) pay interest on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The interest rate payable on the notes of each series is subject to adjustments from time to time if either Moodys Investors Service, Inc. or Standard and Poors Ratings Services downgrades the debt rating assigned to the notes to a level below investment grade, or subsequently upgrades the ratings. The senior notes contain typical restrictions on liens, sale leaseback transactions, mergers and sales of assets. There are no sinking fund requirements on the senior notes and they may be redeemed at any time at the option of the Company, at a redemption price as described in the related indenture agreement, as supplemented and amended, in whole or in part. If a change of control triggering event as defined below occurs, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the notes in cash from the holders at a price equal to 101% of their aggregate principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of repurchase. A change of control triggering event is defined as the occurrence of both a change of control and a downgrade in the debt rating assigned to the notes to a level below investment grade. Net proceeds from the senior notes have been used for general corporate purposes, such as to fund share repurchases, finance capital expenditures and operating expenses and invest in subsidiaries. Additional sources of liquidity The Company has additional liquidity available through its trade receivables facility and revolving credit facility. These sources can be accessed domestically if the Company is unable to satisfy its cash needs in the United States with cash flows provided by operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. 63 Table of Contents Trade Receivables Facility In the U.S., the Company transfers a majority of its receivables to its wholly owned subsidiary, Lexmark Receivables Corporation (LRC), which then may transfer the receivables on a limited recourse basis to an unrelated third party. The financial results of LRC are included in the Companys consolidated financial results since it is a wholly owned subsidiary. LRC is a separate legal entity with its own separate creditors who, in a liquidation of LRC, would be entitled to be satisfied out of LRCs assets prior to any value in LRC becoming available for equity claims of the Company. The Company accounts for transfers of receivables from LRC to the unrelated third party as a secured borrowing with the pledge of its receivables as collateral since LRC has the ability to repurchase the receivables interests at a determinable price. In September 2011, the agreement was amended by extending the term of the facility to September 28, 2012. The maximum capital availability under the facility remains at $125 million under the amended agreement. There were no secured borrowings outstanding under the trade receivables facility at December 31, 2011 or December 31, 2010. This facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants as well as specific provisions related to the quality of the accounts receivables transferred. Receivables transferred to the unrelated third party may not include amounts over 90 days past due or concentrations over certain limits with any one customer. The facility also contains customary cash control triggering events which, if triggered, could adversely affect the Companys liquidity and or its ability to obtain secured borrowings Revolving Credit Facility Effective January 18, 2012, Lexmark entered into a $350 million 5 year senior, unsecured, multicurrency revolving credit facility that includes the availability of swingline loans and multicurrency letters of credit. The Credit Agreement replaces the Companys $300 million 3 year Multicurrency Revolving Credit Agreement entered into on August 17, 2009. Please refer to Note 21 for more information on this new facility and refer to Note 13 for more information on the facility in place as of December 31, 2011. The new credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and also contains certain financial covenants, including those relating to a minimum interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.0 to 1.0 and a maximum leverage ratio of not more than 3.0 to 1.0 as defined in the agreement. The new credit facility also limits, among other things, the Companys indebtedness, liens and fundamental changes to its structure and business. Additional information related to the 2012 revolving credit facility can be found in the Form 8 K report that was filed with the SEC by the Company on January 23, 2012. Credit Ratings and Other Information The Companys credit rating was downgraded by Standard & Poors Ratings Services during the first quarter of 2009 from BBB to BBB . On April 28, 2009, Moodys Investors Services downgraded the Companys current credit rating from Baa2 to Baa3. The ratings remain investment grade. The Companys credit rating can be influenced by a number of factors, including overall economic conditions, demand for the Companys products and services and ability to generate sufficient cash flow to service the Companys debt. A downgrade in the Companys credit rating to non investment grade would decrease the maximum availability under its trade receivables facility, potentially increase the cost of borrowing under the revolving credit facility and increase the coupon payments on the Companys public debt, and likely have an adverse effect on the Companys ability to obtain access to new financings in the future. The Company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that accelerate the maturity dates of its revolving credit facility or public debt. 64 Table of Contents The Company was in compliance with all covenants and other requirements set forth in its debt agreements at December 31, 2011. The Company believes that it is reasonably likely that it will continue to be in compliance with such covenants in the near future. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Cash Obligations The following table summarizes the Companys contractual obligations at December 31, 2011: (Dollars in Millions) Total Less than1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years More than5 Years Long term debt (1) $ 811 $ 41 $ 400 $ 40 $ 330 Operating leases 108 29 41 22 16 Purchase obligations 121 121 Uncertain tax positions 23 10 2 5 6 Other long term liabilities (2) 23 7 4 12 Total contractual obligations $ 1,086 $ 208 $ 447 $ 67 $ 364 (1) includes interest payments (2) includes current portion of other long term liabilities Long term debt reported in the table above includes principal repayments of $350.0 million and $300.0 million in the 1 3 Years and More than 5 Years columns, respectively. All other amounts represent interest payments. Purchase obligations reported in the table above include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Other long term liabilities reported in the table above is made up of various items including asset retirement obligations and restructuring reserves. The Companys funding policy for its pension and other postretirement plans is to fund minimum amounts according to the regulatory requirements under which the plans operate. From time to time, the Company may choose to fund amounts in excess of the minimum for various reasons. The Company is currently expecting to contribute approximately $45 million to its pension and other postretirement plans in 2012. The Company anticipates similar levels of funding for 2013 and 2014 based on factors that were present as of December 31, 2011. Actual future funding requirements beyond 2012 will be impacted by various factors, including actual pension asset returns and interest rates used for discounting future liabilities. The effect of any future contributions the Company may be obligated or otherwise choose to make could be material to the Companys future cash flows from operations. Due to the uncertainty of future funding obligations, the table above contains no amounts for pension and postretirement plan funding. Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directives issued by the European Union require producers of electrical and electronic goods to be financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The Companys estimated financial obligation related to WEEE Directives is not shown in the table above due to the lack of historical data necessary to project future dates of payment. At December 31, 2011, the Companys estimated liability for this obligation was a current liability of $1.0 million and a long term liability of $19.3 million. These amounts were included in Accrued liabilities and Other liabilities, respectively, on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. 65 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011, the Company had accrued approximately $63.3 million for pending copyright fee issues, including litigation proceedings, local legislative initiatives and or negotiations with the parties involved. These accruals are included in Accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The liability is not included in the table above due to the level of uncertainty regarding the timing of payments and ultimate settlement of the litigation. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Payment of such potential obligations could have a material impact on the Companys future operating cash flows. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures totaled $156.5 million, $161.2 million, and $242 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The capital expenditures for 2011 principally related to infrastructure support (including internal use software expenditures) and new product development. The Company expects capital expenditures to be approximately $185 million for full year 2012, attributable mostly to infrastructure support and new product development. Capital expenditures in 2012 are expected to be funded through cash from operations; however, if necessary, the Company may use existing cash and cash equivalents, proceeds from sales of marketable securities or additional sources of liquidity as discussed in the preceding sections. EFFECT OF CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT Revenue derived from international sales, including exports from the U.S., accounts for approximately 58% of the Companys consolidated revenue, with EMEA accounting for 37% of worldwide sales. Substantially all foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their local currencies. Consequently, period to period comparability of results of operations is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Certain of the Companys Latin American and European entities use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. Currency exchange rates had a 2% favorable impact on international revenue in 2011 when compared to 2010. Currency exchange rates had a negligible impact on international revenue in 2010 when compared to 2009. The Company may act to mitigate the effects of exchange rate fluctuations through the use of operational hedges, such as pricing actions and product sourcing decisions. The Companys exposure to exchange rate fluctuations generally cannot be minimized solely through the use of operational hedges. Therefore, the Company utilizes financial instruments, from time to time, such as forward exchange contracts to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities, which arise from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The Company does not purchase currency related financial instruments for purposes other than exchange rate risk management. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements which is incorporated herein by reference. There are no known material changes and trends nor any recognized future impact of new accounting guidance beyond the disclosures provided in Note 2. INFLATION The Company is subject to the effects of changing prices and operates in an industry where product prices are very competitive and subject to downward price pressures. As a result, future increases in production costs or raw material prices could have an adverse effect on the Companys business. In an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of any such increases, the Company must continually 66 Table of Contents manage its product costs and manufacturing processes. Additionally, monetary assets such as cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities lose purchasing power during inflationary periods and thus, the Companys cash and marketable securities balances could be more susceptible to the effects of increasing inflation. 67 Table of Contents Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY The market risk inherent in the Companys financial instruments and positions represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rates At December 31, 2011, the fair value of the Companys senior notes was estimated at $696.6 million based on the prices the bonds have recently traded in the market as well as the overall market conditions on the date of valuation. The fair value of the senior notes exceeded the carrying value as recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2011 by approximately $47.3 million. Market risk is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and amounts to approximately $9.5 million at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of the Companys senior notes was estimated at $693.8 million based on the prices the bonds have recently traded in the market as well as the overall market conditions on the date of valuation. The fair value of the senior notes exceeded the carrying value as recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2010 by approximately $44.7 million. Market risk is estimated as the potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates and amounted to approximately $12.7 million at December 31, 2010. See the section titled LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Investing Activities: in Item 7 of this report for a discussion of the Companys auction rate securities portfolio which is incorporated herein by reference. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Company or the respective foreign currency of each of the Companys subsidiaries. The primary currencies to which the Company was exposed on a transaction basis as of the end of the fourth quarter include the Euro, the Canadian dollar, the Swiss franc, the Singapore dollar, the British pound, the Japanese yen, the Hong Kong dollar and the Australian dollar. The Company primarily hedges its transaction foreign exchange exposures with foreign currency forward contracts with maturity dates of approximately three months or less. The potential loss in fair value at December 31, 2011 for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $4.8 million. This loss would be mitigated by corresponding gains on the underlying exposures. The potential gain in fair value at December 31, 2010 for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates was approximately $15.2 million. This gain would have been mitigated by corresponding losses on the underlying exposures. 68 Table of Contents 
 
