Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Introduction We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (MD&A) with an overview to give the reader managements perspective on BMCs results for fiscal 2004 and our general outlook for the current fiscal year. This is followed by a discussion of the critical accounting policies that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. This discussion is followed by a review of our recent, significant acquisitions. In the next section, we discuss our Results of Operations for fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 and for fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003. We then provide an analysis of our liquidity and capital resources. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including Item 1: Business; Item 6: Selected Financial Data; and the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. The various sections of MD&A contain a number of forward looking statements, all of which are based on our current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described throughout this filing and particularly in the Certain Risks and Uncertainties section. Our actual results may differ materially from the results indicated by any forward looking statements. Overview In response to a challenging first quarter of fiscal 2004, we implemented a restructuring plan to better align our cost structure with existing market conditions. As a result of cost savings, additional license and contractual offerings and improved overall economic conditions, our business began to improve in the second half of fiscal 2004. In the middle of the year, we encouraged our sales force to make it clear to our customers that we offer multiple license models and will be flexible with our customers in how to structure their license arrangement. As a result of this increased emphasis on meeting the customers needs and the resultant flexibility, we have seen a significant increase in the number of transactions, which require deferral of the license fees and recognition of such fees ratably over the term of the contract as compared to previous years. Given the record amount of deferred revenue that we experienced during our third quarter, we introduced a new metric called license bookings that reflects the amount of new license contracts signed during a given quarter. License bookings can be calculated from our financial statements by simply summing current period license revenue plus net change to deferred license revenue, both calculated according to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In both the third and fourth fiscal quarters of 2004, we saw significant year over year increases in license bookings. We attribute this growth in license bookings, in part, to our BSM strategy. Throughout the year, BSM has helped us open new accounts, increase new license bookings and close multiple large transactions. As we look ahead to fiscal 2005, we are planning for growth in license bookings and significant improvement in overall operating profit margins. Another important metric for us is our cash flows from operations, which were $498.7 million for fiscal 2004. While we continue to expect to generate significant cash flows from operations, we are not expecting the same levels of cash flows in fiscal 2005 for a variety of reasons, primarily that the amount of financed 11 Table of Contents receivables sold to third parties is expected to be less in fiscal 2005 than in fiscal 2004. These issues are discussed in greater detail under Liquidity and Capital Resources below. In addition to internal development, we continue to look for strategic opportunities to extend our BSM strategy. To this end, we remained acquisitive during fiscal 2004 purchasing the assets of Magic from Network Associates. Finally, it is important for our investors to understand that a significant portion of our operating expenses is fixed in the short term and we plan our expense run rate based on our expectations of future revenue. If we have a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, there is an immediate, sometimes significant, effect on our overall earnings. Industry Conditions We believe that buyers of systems management software are now more focused on linking their IT operations and infrastructure with their overall business services. Although technology spending has been depressed over the past few years, there are multiple signs that enterprises around the world are making long term and strategic commitments to systems management software, particularly with large vendors similar to BMC. While we remain optimistic about our business prospects and continue to believe that we are uniquely positioned to be the leading provider of BSM solutions, we recognize that the systems management software marketplace is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of software vendors, including large vendors such as IBM, HP, Computer Associates and a number of smaller software vendors. We compete for new customers and, from time to time, must compete to maintain our relationship with our current customers. This competition can lead to pricing pressure and can affect our margins. We discuss competition in greater detail in the Certain Risks and Uncertainties section of MD&A. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Our accounting and financial reporting policies are in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. On an on going basis, we make and evaluate estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, capitalized software development costs, valuation of investments and accounting for income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about amounts and timing of revenues and expenses, the carrying values of assets and the recorded amounts of liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such estimates may change if the underlying conditions or assumptions change. We have discussed the development and selection of the critical accounting policies, communicated below, with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed our related disclosures below. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue in accordance with American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition and SOP 98 9, Modification of SOP 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain Transactions. These statements provide guidance on applying generally accepted accounting principles in recognizing revenue on software transactions. In applying these statements, we exercise judgment in connection with the determination of the amount of software license, maintenance, and professional services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period. We recognize software license fees upon meeting all of the following four criteria: execution of the signed contract, delivery of the underlying products to the customer and the acceptance of such products by the customer, determination that the software license fees are fixed or determinable, and determination that 12 Table of Contents collection of the software license fees is probable. If we determine any one of the four criteria is not met, we will defer recognition of the software license revenue until the criteria are met, as required by SOPs 97 2 and 98 9. Maintenance, enhancement and support revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement on a straight line basis. We have a history of offering installment contracts to customers and successfully enforcing original payment terms without making concessions. Because our agents, distributors and resellers (collectively resellers) act as the principals in the transactions with the end users of our software and the rewards of ownership are passed to the resellers upon the execution of our arrangement with the resellers, we recognize revenue from transactions with resellers on a net basis (the amount actually received by us from the resellers). In addition, we do not offer a right of return, rotation or price protection in our sales to resellers, and it is our policy to only accept orders from resellers that include evidence of an end user agreement. On occasion, we have purchased goods or services for our operations from customers at or about the same time that we licensed our software to these customers. License revenues from such transactions represent less than one percent of our total license revenues in any period. Our professional services revenues also include sales of third party software products, which typically support our product lines. These revenues are recorded net of amounts payable to the third party software vendors. Revenues from professional services are recognized as the services are performed. Vendor specific evidence of the fair value of services is based on daily rates. We enter into contracts for services alone and such contracts are based upon a time and materials basis. Such daily rates are used to assess the vendor specific objective evidence of fair value in multiple element arrangements. When several elements, including software licenses, PCS (post contract support) and professional services, are sold to a customer through a single contract, the license revenues are recognized under the residual model, such that consideration is allocated to the multiple elements based upon the vendor specific objective evidence of the fair value of the multiple elements, with the residual being allocated to the license. Revenue allocated to the undelivered elements of a contract is deferred until such time as that element is delivered, or in the case of PCS, such revenue is recognized ratably over the PCS term. We have established vendor specific objective evidence of the fair value of the PCS through the renewal rates established in contractual arrangements with our customers and through monitoring independent sales of our PCS at the stated renewal rates. We have established a consistent relationship by pricing PCS as a percentage of the license amount. Accordingly, software license fees are recognized under the residual method for arrangements in which the software is licensed with maintenance, enhancement and support and or professional services, and where the maintenance, enhancement and support and or professional services are not essential to the functionality of the delivered software. In the event a contract contains multiple elements for which we have not established vendor specific objective evidence of the fair value of the elements, all revenues from the contract are deferred until such evidence is established or are recognized on a ratable basis. Capitalized Software Development Costs Valuation We capitalize certain software development costs after a product becomes technologically feasible and before its general release to customers in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 86 (SFAS No. 86). Capitalized software costs are then amortized over the products estimated life beginning with general availability of the product. Under SFAS No. 86, we evaluate our capitalized software costs at each balance sheet date to determine if the unamortized balance related to any given product exceeds the estimated net realizable value of that product. Any such excess is written off through accelerated amortization in the quarter it is identified. Determining net realizable value as defined by SFAS No. 86 requires that we make estimates and use judgment in quantifying the appropriate amount to write off, if any. Actual amounts realized from the software products could differ from our estimates. Also, any future changes to our product portfolio could result in significant increases to research, development and support expenses related to software asset write offs. Valuation of Investments We account for our investments in accordance with SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (SFAS No. 115). Our investments consist of marketable securities and non 13 Table of Contents marketable equity securities. Our non marketable equity securities, totaling $19.2 million at March 31, 2004, are subject to periodic impairment review, which requires significant judgment as there are no open market valuations. The primary factors used to determine if an other than temporary impairment of marketable securities exists include: the fair value of the investment is significantly below our cost basis; the financial condition of the issuer of the security has deteriorated; whether it is probable that all amounts due are collectible according to the contractual terms of a debt security; the decline in fair value has existed for an extended period of time; if a debt security, such security has been downgraded by a rating agency; and, our intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. We regularly analyze our portfolio of marketable securities for impairment based on the relevant factors. We have investment policies, which are designed to ensure that our assets are invested in capital preserving securities. However, from time to time, issuer specific and market specific events, as described above, could warrant an impairment write down. We do not believe, unless future events warrant, that the impairment factors listed above will have a material adverse effect on our future results or financial position. Accounting for Income Taxes We provide for the effect of income taxes on our financial position and results of operations in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). Under SFAS 109, income tax expense is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and for deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Management is required to make significant assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and whether a valuation allowance is needed to be recorded against our deferred tax assets. Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to the current provision for income tax take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by domestic (including state) and foreign authorities. Changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our financial position and results of operations. Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to the value of our deferred tax assets take into account positive and negative evidence and predictions of the amount and category of future taxable income. Actual operating results and the underlying amount and category of income in future years could render our assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred tax assets inaccurate and, thus, materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Acquisitions In November 2002, we acquired the assets of Remedy from Peregrine Systems, Inc. (Peregrine) for cash of $355.0 million plus the assumption of certain liabilities of Remedy. In accordance with the purchase agreement, the cash purchase price was adjusted to $347.3 million subsequent to March 31, 2003. Integration of Remedys industry leading service desk, change management and asset management capabilities with our broad application and component management solutions enables us to deliver end to end, closed loop service management to customers. Together, these solutions build a solid foundation for the IT Service and Applications Management component of the BSM strategy by offering both the delivery and support components of service management designed to be proactive, effective and focused on customer business requirements. The acquisition of IT Masters in March 2003 for $43.3 million enables us to deliver the Service Impact Management component of the BSM strategy and enhances our competitive position in the service management market. In accordance with the purchase agreement, the cash purchase price was adjusted to $45.3 million subsequent to March 31, 2003. IT Masters MasterCelltechnology, renamed PATROL for Service Impact Management, combines powerful event automation and service modeling capabilities to transform availability and performance data into detailed knowledge about the status of business services and service level agreements. In February 2004, we acquired the assets of Magic Solutions (Magic) from Network Associates for cash of $49.3 million plus the assumption of certain liabilities of Magic. The acquisition strengthens our leadership 14 Table of Contents position in the IT Service Management market by increasing our reach to small and mid market sized organizations, as Magic has more than 4,000 customers using its service desk solutions. These transactions, along with various other immaterial technology acquisitions, were accounted for using the purchase accounting method, and accordingly, the financial results for these entities have been included in our consolidated financial results since the applicable acquisition dates. In late April 2004, we announced the signing of a definitive merger agreement with Marimba. The proposed acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including the approval of Marimbas stockholders, and we anticipate closing this transaction during the second fiscal quarter of 2005. Our expected purchase price is approximately $239.0 million. This acquisition will strengthen our BSM related offerings through the addition of discovery and asset, change and configuration management capabilities. Historical Information Historical performance should not be viewed as indicative of future performance, as there can be no assurance that operating income (loss) or net earnings (loss) as a percentage of revenues will be sustained at these levels. For a discussion of factors affecting operating margins, see the discussions below under the heading Certain Risks and Uncertainties. 15 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the fiscal years indicated, the percentages that selected items in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) bear to total revenues. Percentage of Total Revenues Years Ended March 31, 2002 2003 2004 Revenues: License 48.5 % 45.7 % 40.7 % Maintenance 44.7 47.9 53.3 Professional services 6.8 6.4 6.0 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0 Selling and marketing expenses 43.3 37.7 43.0 Research, development and support expenses 39.4 36.9 41.3 Cost of professional services 7.5 6.6 5.6 General and administrative expenses 12.0 11.3 12.7 Acquired research and development 0.9 0.1 Amortization and impairment of acquired technology, goodwill and intangibles 18.8 5.0 4.3 Merger related costs and compensation charges 1.0 Total operating expenses 122.0 98.4 107.0 Operating income (loss) (22.0 ) 1.6 (7.0 ) Interest and other income, net 5.2 4.9 4.9 Interest expense (0.1 ) Gain (loss) on marketable securities and other investments (1.1 ) (1.3 ) 0.1 Other income, net 4.1 3.6 4.9 Earnings (loss) before income taxes (17.9 ) 5.2 (2.1 ) Income tax provision (benefit) (3.6 ) 1.6 (0.2 ) Net earnings (loss) (14.3 )% 3.6 % (1.9 )% 16 Table of Contents Revenues We generate revenues from licensing software, providing maintenance, enhancement and support for previously licensed products and providing professional services. We generally utilize written contracts as the means to establish the terms and conditions by which our products, support and services are sold to our customers. Percentage Change Years Ended March 31, 2003 2004 Compared to Compared to 2002 2003 2004 2002 2003 (In millions) License: North America $ 351.4 $ 325.8 $ 269.6 (7.3 )% (17.2 )% International 273.6 279.9 307.8 2.3 % 10.0 % Total license revenues 625.0 605.7 577.4 (3.1 )% (4.7 )% Maintenance: North America 355.2 385.7 450.2 8.6 % 16.7 % International 220.6 250.1 306.2 13.4 % 22.4 % Total maintenance revenues 575.8 635.8 756.4 10.4 % 19.0 % Professional services: North America 45.8 37.5 41.3 (18.1 )% 10.1 % International 42.3 47.7 43.6 12.8 % (8.6 )% Total professional services revenues 88.1 85.2 84.9 (3.3 )% (0.4 )% Total revenues $ 1,288.9 $ 1,326.7 $ 1,418.7 2.9 % 6.9 % Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal 2002. The utilization of existing capacity previously licensed to our customers and difficult economic conditions in domestic and international markets experienced throughout fiscal 2002 continued to impact fiscal 2003, which resulted in reduced information technology spending by many of our customers. Though the number of license transactions declined only 3% during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002, tighter budgets and higher required approval levels caused many customers to enter into smaller transactions in terms of dollar value, and the IT spending environment remained depressed. We experienced a decline in the size of transactions with our largest customers, which historically have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. As discussed in Note 2 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements, we acquired Remedy in November 2002. Excluding the impact of Remedy revenues subsequent to the acquisition date, total revenues declined 3% in fiscal 2003 primarily as a result of the economic conditions described above and reduced revenues for our PATROL solutions during the first half of fiscal 2003, as discussed below under Product Line Revenues. License revenue deferrals for fiscal 2003 were consistent with fiscal 2002 and, therefore, did not have an impact on the revenue change from year to year. Including Remedy revenues subsequent to the acquisition date, total revenues increased 3% in fiscal 2003. Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003. We acquired Magic in February 2004, as discussed in Note 2 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic revenues subsequent to the acquisition dates, total revenues declined 8% in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003 primarily as a result of the significant increase in license revenue deferrals. Though license revenues during the first six months of fiscal 2004 were negatively impacted by reduced IT spending by many of our customers, as discussed above, we believe that the global IT spending environment is beginning to improve, as customers were more willing to consider new IT projects and to commit to larger transactions during the second half of fiscal 2004. The number of license transactions over $1 million during the second half of fiscal 2004 increased 65% over the prior year, including nine license transactions over $5 million, eight of which will be recognized over the life of the contract. See further detail of the impact of the change in license revenue deferrals below 17 Table of Contents under Product License Revenues. Including Remedy and Magic revenues subsequent to the acquisition dates, total revenues increased 7% in fiscal 2004. Product revenue growth was not materially impacted by inflation in fiscal 2003 and 2004. Product License Revenues The majority of our product license revenues consist of fees related to products licensed to customers on a perpetual basis. Product license fees can be associated with a customers licensing of a given software product for the first time or with a customers purchase of the right to run a previously licensed product on additional computing capacity or by additional users. In addition to perpetual based product license fees, our product license revenues also include term license fees which are generated when customers are granted license rights to a given software product for a defined period of time less than 48 months. For the years ended March 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, our recognized revenues were impacted by the changes in our deferred license revenue balance as follows: Year Ended March 31, 2002 2003 2004 (In millions) Deferrals of license revenue $ (142.4 ) $ (134.6 ) $ (239.2 ) Recognition from deferred license revenue 80.2 85.4 105.0 Net impact on recognized license revenue $ (62.2 ) $ (49.2 ) $ (134.2 ) Deferred license revenue balance at end of year $ 168.9 $ 218.1 $ 352.3 Based on licensing trends, increased customer requests for contractual terms that result in deferral of revenue and our recent initiative to ensure we clearly articulate to customers the flexibility that we offer in these areas, we expect that our base of deferred license revenue will continue to grow in fiscal 2005. Also, because of differing maintenance pricing methodologies for legacy BMC products and Remedy products, license revenues in transactions that include both types of products typically must be deferred under the residual method of accounting for multiple element arrangements. We expect the volume of such joint transactions to increase and accordingly, expect the deferred license revenue related to them to increase. The contract terms and conditions that result in deferral of revenue recognition for a given transaction result from arms length negotiations between us and our customers. During these negotiations, the contract terms and conditions that result in deferral may be requested by a customer, while in some cases we may suggest inclusion of these terms and conditions where it makes business sense to do so. We may suggest short term time based licenses in response to customers product mix, pricing and licensing needs. In either case, the resulting contract must be acceptable to both parties. Examples of transactions resulting in the deferral of license revenue would include short term time based licenses (generally one to four years), transactions that include both BMC and Remedy products, as noted above, for which vendor specific objective evidence of the fair value of the PCS does not exist, and transactions that include complex terms and conditions for which we do not have vendor specific objective evidence of fair value of the PCS. Once it is determined that license revenue for a particular contract must be deferred, based on the contractual terms and application of revenue recognition policies to those terms, we recognize such license revenue either ratably over the term of the contract or when the revenue recognition criteria are met. Because of this, we generally know the timing of the subsequent recognition of license revenue at the time of deferral. Therefore, the amount of license revenue to be recognized out of the deferred revenue balance in each future quarter is predictable, and our total license revenues to be recognized each quarter become more predictable as a larger percentage of those revenues come from the deferred balance. As of March 31, 2003 and 2004, the average remaining life of the deferred license revenue balance was approximately three and one half years. Of the total deferred license revenue balance at March 31, 2004, we will recognize license revenues of $148.1 million, $89.3 million, $69.3 million and $45.6 million for the fiscal years 2005, 2006, 2007 and thereafter, respectively. Our North American operations generated 56%, 54% and 47% of total license revenues in fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. North American license revenues decreased 7% from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 18 Table of Contents and 17% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. Excluding the impact of Remedy revenues subsequent to the acquisition date, North American license revenues declined 13% in fiscal 2003. While license revenues were down across most product groups in fiscal 2003 and 2004, the largest contributor to the revenue decline in both years was decreased license revenues for our mainframe data management products. Decreased PATROL license revenues also had a significant impact in both fiscal years. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic revenues subsequent to their acquisition dates, North American license revenues decreased 32% in fiscal 2004. However, the decline for fiscal 2004 is primarily due to the impact of deferred license revenue as discussed above, as well as an overall decrease in license bookings, which was comprised of recognized revenues and the net change in deferred license revenue, in this region. While overall economic conditions are improving, the IT spending environment in North America remains challenging. International license revenues represented 44%, 46% and 53% of total license revenues in fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. International license revenues increased 2% from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 and increased 10% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. Excluding the impact of Remedy revenues subsequent to the acquisition date, international license revenues declined 4% in fiscal 2003. Increases in license revenue for our mainframe data management and MAINVIEW products were more than offset by declines for our PATROL, distributed systems data management and scheduling and output management products. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic revenues subsequent to their acquisition dates, international license revenues decreased 1% in fiscal 2004. Increased license revenues for our PATROL and scheduling and output management products were more than offset by decreases in our mainframe data management and MAINVIEW products. These decreases were primarily due to the impact of increased deferred license revenue, as discussed above. The international license revenue decline in fiscal 2003 was net of an increase of 6% and the decrease in fiscal 2004 was net of an increase of 10% due to foreign currency exchange rate changes during the periods, after giving effect to our foreign currency hedging program. Maintenance, Enhancement and Support Revenues Maintenance, enhancement and support revenues represent the ratable recognition of fees to enroll licensed products in our software maintenance, enhancement and support program. Maintenance, enhancement and support enrollment generally entitles customers to product enhancements, technical support services and ongoing compatibility with third party operating systems, database management systems, networks, storage systems and applications. Excluding Remedy, these fees are generally charged annually and such fees have equaled 15% to 20% of the discounted price of the product prior to the program change in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 discussed below, and have equaled 20% subsequent to the program change. Remedys maintenance fees are generally charged annually and equal 15% to 22% of the list price of the product. Maintenance revenues also include the ratable recognition of the bundled fees for any initial maintenance services covered by the related perpetual license agreement. In addition, customers may be entitled to reduced maintenance percentages on Remedy products for entering into long term maintenance contracts that include prepayment of the maintenance fees. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we revised our maintenance program to a single maintenance offering of 24x7 support at a standard rate of 20% of the discounted price of the associated product. In connection with this revision, we have extended our standard warranty and initial support period to one year for all our products, whereas prior to this revision such periods were 90 days for distributed systems products and one year for mainframe products. Because our maintenance revenues include the ratable recognition of the bundled fees for any initial maintenance services covered by the related perpetual license agreement, in certain new license transactions the extension of the initial support period for distributed systems products will cause us to recognize more maintenance revenues over time and less license revenues when the transactions occur. While this change in our maintenance program will not have a material effect on our total revenues over time, there has been a negative short term license revenue impact coupled with an increase in deferred maintenance revenue. As discussed above, this maintenance program does not apply to Remedy products. Maintenance revenues increased 10% in fiscal 2003 and 19% in fiscal 2004 primarily as a result of the continuing growth in the base of installed products and the processing capacity on which they run and the additional maintenance revenue associated with Remedy and Magic. Excluding the impact of Remedy 19 Table of Contents revenues subsequent to the acquisition date, maintenance revenues increased 5% in fiscal 2003. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic revenues subsequent to their acquisition dates, maintenance revenues increased 2% in fiscal 2004. Maintenance fees increase in proportion to the aggregate processing capacity on which the products are installed; consequently, we receive higher absolute maintenance fees as customers install our products on additional processing capacity. Due to the increased discounting for higher levels of additional processing capacity, the maintenance fees on a per unit of capacity basis are typically reduced in enterprise license agreements. These discounts, combined with the reduced maintenance percentages for long term contracts discussed above and the recent decline in our license revenues, have led to lower growth rates for our maintenance revenue excluding Remedy and Magic. Further declines in our license revenue and or increased discounting could lead to declines in our maintenance revenues. Historically, our maintenance renewal rates have been high, but economic and competitive pressures could cause customers to reduce their licensed capacity and, therefore, the capacity upon which our maintenance, enhancement and support fees are charged. Of the total deferred maintenance revenue balance at March 31, 2004, we will recognize maintenance revenues of $491.9 million, $289.0 million, $149.3 million and $90.7 million in the fiscal years 2005, 2006, 2007 and thereafter, respectively. Product Line Revenues Revenues Increase (Decrease) Between Periods Years Ended March 31, 2003 vs. 2002 2004 vs. 2003 2002 2003 2004 % % (In millions) Enterprise Data Management: Mainframe Data Management $ 449.7 $ 424.2 $ 388.0 (5.7 )% (8.5 )% Distributed Systems Data Management 125.3 129.7 113.2 3.5 % (12.7 )% 575.0 553.9 501.2 (3.7 )% (9.5 )% Enterprise Systems Management: PATROL 301.3 275.4 274.7 (8.6 )% (0.3 )% MAINVIEW 160.9 168.4 136.5 4.7 % (18.9 )% Scheduling & Output Management 124.7 136.8 138.8 9.7 % 1.5 % 586.9 580.6 550.0 (1.1 )% (5.3 )% Security 31.0 34.3 28.6 10.6 % (16.6 )% Other 7.9 2.1 1.1 (73.4 )% (47.6 )% Remedy 70.6 252.9 nm* nm* Total license & maintenance revenues $ 1,200.8 $ 1,241.5 $ 1,333.8 3.4 % 7.4 % * not meaningful. Our solutions are broadly divided into four core business units. The Enterprise Data Management group includes products designed for managing database management systems on mainframe and distributed computing platforms. The Enterprise Systems Management group includes our systems management and monitoring, scheduling and output management solutions. The Remedy group includes our service, change and asset management solutions, including our recent acquisition of Magic. The Security group includes products that facilitate user registration and password administration. Our Enterprise Data Management solutions combined represented 48%, 45% and 38% of total software revenues for fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. Total software revenues for this group declined 4% from 20 Table of Contents fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 and 10% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2003, the economic conditions discussed above caused both license and maintenance revenues for our mainframe data management products to decline, more than offsetting an increase in maintenance revenue for our distributed systems data management products. The maintenance revenue decline was primarily a result of lower discounted prices and slowing capacity growth, which was not sufficient to offset these reduced prices. The decline in fiscal 2004 is primarily due to a decrease in license revenues for both the mainframe and distributed systems products. Maintenance revenues for the mainframe products also declined from the prior year, while distributed systems maintenance revenues remained flat. The decline in license revenues was primarily due to the large increase in the net change in deferred license revenue along with decreased license bookings due to increased competition and slower capacity growth. Our Enterprise Systems Management solutions combined contributed 49%, 47% and 41% of total software revenues for fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. Total software revenues for this group declined 1% from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 and 5% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. License revenues decreased in fiscal 2003 primarily due to the continued weakness in IT spending and a reduction in Unix shipments from hardware manufacturers. These external factors, coupled with delays in customer purchase decisions resulting from delays in our release of significant enhancements to components of the PATROL product line during the first half of fiscal 2003, had a direct negative impact on PATROL license revenues, more than offsetting license revenue increases for the MAINVIEW and Scheduling & Output Management product lines and maintenance revenue increases for the PATROL and Scheduling & Output Management solutions. The remaining key PATROL enhancements were delivered at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2003. Though PATROL license revenues were down for the second half of fiscal 2003 compared to the same period in fiscal 2002, such revenues for the third and fourth quarters increased sequentially over the immediately preceding quarters. These increases were due, in part, to sales from the newly introduced agentless monitoring product, PATROL Express. For fiscal 2004, a significant decrease in license and maintenance revenues for the MAINVIEW product line due to increased discounts, more than offset the increase in maintenance revenues for the PATROL and Scheduling & Output Management product lines. Also contributing to the decline in revenues for this group was the large increase in the net change in deferred license revenues for the PATROL and Scheduling & Output Management product lines, which offset the increases in license bookings for these products. The growth in license bookings is primarily the result of increased acceptance of the new version of PATROL and transactions generated as a result of our BSM strategy discussed above. Our Security solutions contributed 3% of total software revenues for fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2003 and 2% of total software revenues for fiscal year 2004. Total software revenues for this group increased 11% from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 and decreased 17% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. This decrease in fiscal 2004 was a result of increased competitive pressures. The security product group continues to operate as an independent business unit and currently has a dedicated sales force in North America. In fiscal 2004, the increase in maintenance revenues for Security was more than offset by the decline in license revenues. Revenues from our Remedy products for the period from the acquisition date of November 20, 2002 through March 31, 2003 contributed 6% of total software revenues for fiscal 2003, including the impact of the write down of the acquisition date deferred maintenance revenue. Revenues from our Remedy products for fiscal 2004 and from our Magic products for the period from the acquisition date of February 2, 2004 through March 31, 2004 contributed 19% of total software revenues for fiscal 2004. As the acquisition of Remedy was completed during the third quarter of fiscal 2003, year to year comparisons are not meaningful. Professional Services Revenues Professional services revenues, representing fees from implementation, integration and education services performed during the periods represented 7% of total revenues for fiscal 2002 and 6% of total revenues for both fiscal years 2003 and 2004. Professional services revenues declined 3% from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 and remained flat from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. Excluding the impact of Remedy revenues subsequent to the acquisition date, professional services declined 7% in fiscal 2003. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic revenues subsequent to their acquisition dates, professional services revenues declined by 14% in fiscal 2004. 21 Table of Contents The declines in both years are the result of our decreased license revenues, which depresses demand for our implementation and integration services. Operating Expenses Beginning in fiscal 2002, we increased our focus on expense control to better align our cost structure with the realities of a more difficult revenue environment. This initiative included headcount reductions across all divisions and geographies, office consolidations, elimination of certain product lines and reductions in discretionary spending on items such as travel, consulting fees and equipment. We were able to reduce these costs significantly while maintaining our industry leading product quality, customer support and sales relationships. This initiative has continued throughout fiscal 2004 and will continue into the future, as necessary. Operating Expenses Increase (Decrease) Between Periods Years Ended March 31, 2003 vs. 2002 2004 vs. 2003 Compared to Compared to 2002 2003 2004 % % (In millions) Selling and marketing $ 558.2 $ 499.4 $ 610.2 (10.5 )% 22.2 % Research, development and support 508.5 489.8 586.1 (3.7 )% 19.7 % Cost of professional services 97.0 86.8 79.2 (10.5 )% (8.8 )% General and administrative 154.2 150.2 180.1 (2.6 )% 19.9 % Acquired research and development 12.0 1.0 nm nm Amortization and impairment of acquired technology, goodwill and intangibles 241.8 66.7 61.0 (72.4 )% (8.5 )% Merger related costs and compensation charges 12.8 0.6 (95.3 )% (100.0 )% Total operating expenses $ 1,572.5 $ 1,305.5 $ 1,517.6 (17.0 )% 16.2 % Selling and Marketing Our selling and marketing expenses primarily include personnel and related costs, sales commissions and costs associated with advertising, industry trade shows and sales seminars, and represented 43%, 38% and 43% of total revenues in fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. Selling and marketing expenses decreased 11% from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 and increased 22% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. Excluding the impact of Remedy expenses subsequent to the acquisition date and costs related to exit activities, selling and marketing expenses decreased 12% from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003. Personnel costs were the largest contributor to the expense decline as a result of headcount reductions during the year. Advertising, marketing and travel costs also decreased in fiscal 2003. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic expenses subsequent to the acquisition date, selling and marketing expenses increased 9% in fiscal 2004. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic expenses and costs related to exit activities, selling and marketing expenses decreased 2% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. The decline is primarily related to decreases in personnel expenses and travel primarily due to our restructuring activities, which were slightly offset by an increase in commissions, sales seminars and advertising expenses. The increase in commission expense in fiscal 2004 occurred late in the fiscal year when the actual mix of the license and maintenance components in our largest sales transactions differed from the historical norm, upon which the 2004 commission plan was established. Because of this shift in the license and maintenance mix, the commission rate effectively increased during this time period. The increase in commission expense in fiscal 2004 occurred late in the fiscal year when the actual mix of the 22 Table of Contents license and maintenance components in our largest sales transactions differed from the historical norm, upon which the 2004 commission plan was established. Because of this shift in the license and maintenance mix, the commission rate effectively increased during this time period. Research, Development and Support Research, development and support expenses mainly comprise personnel costs related to software developers and development support personnel, including software programmers, testing and quality assurance personnel and writers of technical documentation such as product manuals and installation guides. These expenses also include costs associated with the maintenance, enhancement and support of our products, computer hardware/ software costs, telecommunications and personnel expenses necessary to maintain our data processing center, royalties and the effect of software development cost capitalization and amortization. Research, development and support costs were reduced in all three fiscal years by amounts capitalized in accordance with SFAS No. 86, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed. The following table summarizes the amounts capitalized and amortized during fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004. Amortization for these periods includes amounts accelerated for certain software products that were not expected to generate sufficient future revenues to realize the carrying value of the assets. Years Ended March 31, 2002 2003 2004 (In millions) Software development and purchased software costs capitalized $ (104.2 ) $ (88.2 ) $ (53.3 ) Total amortization 115.7 107.6 107.5 Net increase (decrease) in research, development and support expenses $ 11.5 $ 19.4 $ 54.2 Accelerated amortization included in total amortization above $ 57.2 $ 47.4 $ 19.1 As a result of the changes in market conditions and research and development headcount reductions during fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2003, we focused more on our core businesses. As part of this effort, we reviewed our product portfolio during fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2003 and discontinued certain products. To the extent that there were any capitalized software development costs remaining on the balance sheet related to these products, we accelerated the amortization to write off these balances. The continued need to accelerate amortization to maintain our capitalized software costs at net realizable value, the results of the valuation performed for the Remedy acquisition that indicated a three year life was appropriate for that acquired technology and changes in the average life cycles for certain of our software products caused us to evaluate the estimated economic lives for our internally developed software products. As a result of this evaluation, we revised the estimated economic lives of certain products as of January 1, 2003, such that most products will be amortized over an estimated life of three years. These changes in estimated economic lives resulted in an additional $12.4 million and $36.8 million of amortization expense in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004, respectively, and reduced basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended March 31, 2003 and 2004 by $0.03 per share and $0.14 per share, respectively. Research, development and support expenses decreased 4% from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 and increased 20% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. Excluding the impact of Remedy expenses subsequent to the acquisition date and costs related to exit activities, research and development expenses decreased 2% from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 primarily as a result of reductions in personnel, professional fees and royalty costs which more than offset the net effect of software cost capitalization and amortization detailed above. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic expenses subsequent to their acquisition dates, research, development and support expenses increased 13% in fiscal 2004. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic expenses and costs related to exit activities, research and development expenses remained flat from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004, as the net effect of the software cost capitalization and amortization shown above increased overall research, development and support expense, which was offset by decreased personnel costs. The 23 Table of Contents decrease in software development and purchased software cost capitalization is due to the overall reduction in research and development headcount as compared to the prior year, expansion of our operations into different locations and two significant products becoming generally available (GA) during the third fiscal quarter of 2004. During fiscal 2002, we also wrote off software assets totaling $14.9 million associated with certain business information integration products that were discontinued during the year as a result of the dissolution of that business unit as part of our restructuring plan. This charge is discussed further below under the heading Exit Activities and Related Costs. Cost of Professional Services Cost of professional services consists primarily of personnel costs associated with implementation, integration and education services that we perform for our customers, and the related infrastructure to support this business. Cost of professional services decreased 11% from fiscal 2002 to 2003 and 9% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. Excluding the impact of Remedy expenses subsequent to the acquisition date and costs related to exit activities, cost of professional services declined 13% from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 resulting primarily from headcount reductions during the period as a result of the decline in professional services revenues. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic expenses subsequent to their acquisition dates, cost of professional services declined 19% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic expenses and costs related to exit activities, cost of professional services declined 22% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. The decrease resulted primarily from lower headcount throughout fiscal 2004 and decreased travel and lodging and bad debt expense. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses are comprised primarily of compensation and personnel costs within executive management, finance and accounting, IT, facilities management, legal and human resources. Other costs included in general and administrative expenses are fees paid for outside legal and accounting services, consulting projects, insurance and bad debt expense related to maintenance billings. General and administrative expenses decreased 3% and increased 20% in fiscal years 2003 and 2004, respectively. Excluding the impact of Remedy expenses subsequent to the acquisition date and costs related to exit activities, general and administrative expenses declined 8% from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 primarily as a result of reduced bad debt expense, legal fees and shipping costs, which more than offset increases in personnel, insurance and travel costs. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic expenses subsequent to their acquisition dates, general and administrative expenses increased 14%. Excluding the impact of Remedy and Magic expenses and costs related to exit activities, general and administrative expenses increased 12% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. The increase included higher consulting fees, primarily related to Sarbanes Oxley compliance and an ongoing infrastructure software implementation, higher legal and professional fees and an increase in bad debt expense. Acquired Research and Development During the years ended March 31, 2003 and 2004, we wrote off acquired in process research and development (IPR&D) totaling $12.0 million in connection with the acquisition of the assets of Remedy and $1.0 million in connection with the acquisition of the assets of Magic, respectively. We did not record a charge related to acquired in process research and development as a result of our various immaterial acquisitions during the year ended March 31, 2002 or the acquisition of IT Masters during the year ended March 31, 2003. The amount allocated to IPR&D represents the estimated fair value, based on risk adjusted cash flows and historical costs expended, related to incomplete research and development projects. At the date of acquisitions, the development of these projects had not yet reached technological feasibility, and the research and development in progress had no alternative future uses. Accordingly, these costs were expensed as of the acquisition dates, during the fiscal years 2003 and 2004. In making the purchase price allocations to IPR&D, we considered present value calculations of income, analyses of project accomplishments and remaining outstanding items, assessments of overall contributions, as 24 Table of Contents well as project risks. The values assigned to purchased in process technology were determined by estimating the costs to develop the acquired technology into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from the projects, and discounting the net cash flows to their present value. The revenue projections used to value the in process research and development were based on estimates of relevant market sizes and growth factors, expected trends in technology, and the nature and expected timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors. The resulting net cash flows from such projects are based on our estimates of cost of sales, operating expenses and income taxes from such projects. In the present value calculations, aggregate revenues for the Remedy and Magic developed, in process and future products were estimated to grow at compounded annual growth rates of approximately 15% and 8%, respectively, for the five years following acquisition, assuming the successful completion and market acceptance of the major current and future research and development programs. The estimated revenues for the in process projects were expected to peak within three years of acquisition and then decline sharply as other new products and technologies are expected to enter the market. A risk adjusted discount rate was applied to the cash flows of each of the products projected income stream for the five years following the acquisition. These discount rates assume that the risk of revenue streams for new technology is higher than that of existing revenue streams. The discount rates used in the present value calculations were generally derived from a weighted average cost of capital, adjusted upward to reflect the additional risks inherent in the development life cycle, including the useful life of the technology, profitability levels of the technology and the uncertainty of technology advances that are known at the transaction date. Product specific risk includes the stages of completion of each product, the complexity of the development work completed to date, the likelihood of achieving technological feasibility and market acceptance. The assumptions used in valuing IPR&D were based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Accordingly, actual results may differ from the projected results used to determine fair value. Amortization and Impairment of Acquired Technology, Goodwill and Intangibles Under the purchase accounting method for certain of our acquisitions, portions of the purchase prices were allocated to goodwill, acquired technology and other intangible assets. Prior to April 1, 2002, we were amortizing all of these intangibles over three to five year periods, which reflected the estimated useful lives of the respective assets. As of April 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. In accordance with this Statement, goodwill and those intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized, but rather are tested for impairment annually and when events or circumstances indicate that their fair value has been reduced below carrying value. Acquired technology continues to be amortized under SFAS No. 86. See Note 5 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of our reported net earnings (loss) and earnings (loss) per share to those amounts that would have resulted had there been no amortization of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for all periods presented. We assigned our goodwill to the applicable reporting units and tested it for impairment, upon adoption of SFAS No. 142 as of April 1, 2002, and as of January 1, 2003 and 2004 for the required annual testing. The fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill assigned exceeded the respective carrying value of the reporting units allocated net assets, including goodwill, and therefore, no goodwill was considered impaired as of any date. During fiscal 2002, we performed an assessment of the carrying values of our acquired technology, goodwill and intangibles recorded in connection with various acquisitions. The assessment was performed because sustained negative economic conditions impacted our operations and expected future revenues. Economic indicators at that time suggested that such conditions could continue for the foreseeable future. As a result, we recorded impairment charges of $15.5 million related to acquired technology to reflect these assets at their then current estimated net realizable values and $47.8 million related to goodwill to reflect these assets at their then current estimated fair values. These charges are reflected together with amortization expense in 25 Table of Contents the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for fiscal 2002, as amortization and impairment of acquired technology, goodwill and intangibles. We evaluated our acquired technology under the provisions of SFAS No. 86, our other intangibles under the provisions of SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long lived Assets and of Long lived Assets to be Disposed Of, and our enterprise level goodwill under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 17, Intangible Assets. The impairment charges for acquired technology reflect the amounts by which the carrying values exceeded the estimated net realizable values of the products. The net realizable values for acquired technology were estimated as the future gross revenues from the products reduced by the estimated future costs of completing and disposing of the products, including the costs of performing maintenance and customer support required to satisfy our responsibilities set forth at the time of sale. The impairment charges for goodwill reflect the amounts by which the carrying values exceeded the estimated fair values of these assets. Fair value was determined by estimated future net cash flows related to these assets. No impairment was identified for our other intangible assets. Impairment charges recorded in fiscal 2002 by asset category were as follows: Total Acquired Impairment Technology Goodwill Charge (In millions) Acquisition: New Dimension $ 8.4 $ $ 8.4 Evity 0.8 21.6 22.4 OptiSystems 2.0 20.2 22.2 Perform S.A. 4.3 6.0 10.3 Total $ 15.5 $ 47.8 $ 63.3 We review the realizability of acquired technology, goodwill and intangibles on an ongoing basis, and when there is an indication of impairment, we perform the procedures under the applicable accounting pronouncements to quantify any impairment that exists. Determining the amount of impairment of these assets, if any, requires that we estimate future cash flows and make judgments regarding discount rates and other variables that impact the net realizable value or fair value of those assets, as applicable. Actual future cash flows and other assumed variables could differ from our estimates. Future impairment charges could be material. Exit Activities and Related Costs During fiscal 2002, we implemented a restructuring plan to better align our cost structure with existing market conditions. This plan included the involuntary termination of 1,260 employees during the year. These actions were across all divisions and geographies and the affected employees received cash severance packages. During fiscal 2002, we also discontinued certain business information integration products as a result of the dissolution of that business unit, and announced the closure of certain locations throughout the world. A charge of $52.9 million was recorded during fiscal 2002 for employee severance, the write off of software assets related to discontinued products, net of proceeds from the sale of a portion of the related technology, and office closures. As of March 31, 2003, all disbursements related to this restructuring plan had been paid. During fiscal 2002, we sold our enterprise data propagation (EDP) technology for a minority equity investment in the purchaser and future cash payments to be made based on the purchasers quarterly sales to our former EDP customers over the following four years. As these products were part of the discontinued business information integration products, the proceeds will be recorded as a reduction of restructuring costs, as a recovery of the amount previously written off for these products. For fiscal 2002, proceeds of $0.2 million were recorded, reflecting the estimated fair value of the equity investment received. As the future cash payments, if any, cannot be estimated, they will be recorded in the periods received as a reduction of 26 Table of Contents restructuring costs up to the amount previously written off. Any receipts in excess of the related asset write off will be reflected as other income. The expenses related to the exit activities are reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) as follows: Year Ended March 31, 2002 Write off of Severance & Software Related Incremental Development Costs Facilities Depreciation Costs Total Selling and marketing expenses $ 14.8 $ 4.3 $ 0.3 $ $ 19.4 Research, development and support expenses 14.3 0.3 14.7 29.3 Cost of professional services 1.7 1.7 General and administrative expenses 2.4 0.1 2.5 Total included in operating expenses $ 33.2 $ 4.7 $ 0.3 $ 14.7 $ 52.9 During fiscal 2004, we implemented a plan to better align our cost structure with existing market conditions. This plan included the involuntary termination of approximately 785 employees during the year ended March 31, 2004. The workforce reduction was across all functions and geographies and affected employees were provided cash separation packages. As a global enterprise, we have been expanding our operations for a number of years in attractive labor markets, including in our offices in India and Israel. Our plan to better align our cost structure with existing market conditions has, to an extent, accelerated our existing global expansion plans by exiting leases in certain locations around the world, reducing the square footage required to operate those locations and relocating those operations to lower cost facilities. These relocation efforts were completed as of December 31, 2003. Charges for exit costs of $110.1 million were recorded for the year ended March 31, 2004, for employee severance and related costs and exited leases. Additionally, $14.1 million of incremental depreciation expense was recorded during the year ended March 31, 2004, related to the changes in estimated depreciable lives for leasehold improvements in locations to be exited and for certain information technology assets that will be eliminated as a result of the plan. These changes in estimated lives reduced basic and diluted earnings per share by $0.05 for the year ended March 31, 2004. The expenses related to the exit activities are reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) as follows: Year Ended March 31, 2004 Severance & Related Incremental Costs Facilities Depreciation Total (In millions) Selling and marketing expenses $ 17.5 $ 34.0 $ 5.0 $ 56.5 Research, development and support expenses 10.5 42.4 8.4 61.3 Cost of professional services 2.4 2.4 General and administrative expenses 3.1 0.2 0.7 4.0 Total included in operating expenses $ 33.5 $ 76.6 $ 14.1 $ 124.2 27 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2004, $68.6 million of severance and facilities costs related to actions completed under the plan remained accrued for payment in future periods, as follows: Cash Payments Balance at Net of Balance at March 31, Charged to Adjustments Sublease March 31, 2003 Expense Accretion to Estimates Income 2004 (In millions) Severance and related costs $ $ 33.5 $ $ $ (29.6 ) $ 3.9 Facilities costs 75.6 0.7 0.3 (11.9 ) 64.7 Total accrual $ $ 109.1 $ 0.7 $ 0.3 $ (41.5 ) $ 68.6 The amounts accrued at March 31, 2004 related to facilities costs represent the fair value of lease obligations related to exited locations, net of estimated sublease income that could be reasonably obtained in the future and will be paid out over the remaining lives of the applicable leases, the last of which ends in fiscal 2011. Other than potential adjustments to these lease accruals based on actual subleases entered in the future, we do not expect any significant additional severance or facilities charges subsequent to March 31, 2004. We expect to pay all amounts accrued for severance and related costs in fiscal 2005. Accretion (the increase in present value of amounts that have been discounted) and adjustments to original estimates are included in operating expenses. We expect annual operating expense savings of approximately $100 million to $120 million relative to our projected personnel and facilities expenses before our restructuring actions. We began to realize savings in our third fiscal quarter related to personnel and facilities costs. Merger Related Costs and Compensation Charges During fiscal 2002 and 2003, we recorded merger related compensation charges of $13.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively. These compensation charges are primarily related to the vesting of common stock issued as part of the Evity acquisition in fiscal 2001 to certain Evity employee shareholders who we employed after the acquisition. Vesting was complete during the first quarter of fiscal 2003. Also during fiscal 2002 $0.4 million of previously accrued merger costs related to the Boole merger were reversed, as certain lease and severance obligations were satisfied at amounts below the amounts originally estimated. These reversals are reflected as a reduction of merger related costs and compensation charges in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for fiscal 2002. Other Income, Net Other income, net, consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and finance receivables, gains and losses on marketable securities and other investments and interest expense on capital leases and short term borrowings. Other income, net, decreased 9% from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 and increased 44% from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2003, the decrease in other income, net, primarily relates to increased write downs of marketable securities as a result of fair value declines determined to be other than temporary totaling $13.4 million. Fiscal 2003 other income, net, also included $4.5 million of impairment charges related to other equity investments. The increase in fiscal 2004 other income, net, is due to the gain on the licensing of our PATROL Storage Manager product to EMC Corporation, increased investment income, including the realized recovery of previously written down marketable securities, and an increase in rental income over the prior year, which was slightly offset by $4.0 million of impairment charges related to other equity investments. Provision for Income Taxes We recorded an income tax benefit of $46.4 million in fiscal 2002, an income tax expense of $21.3 million in fiscal 2003 and an income tax benefit of $2.6 million in fiscal 2004. Our effective tax rates were 20%, 31%, and 9% for fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. The effective tax rate is impacted primarily by the tax effect of lower income taxes on foreign earnings, tax exempt interest income, state income taxes and other 28 Table of Contents non deductible items. In fiscal 2004, we recorded a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $25 million, of which $15.2 million impacted our effective tax rate. For a detailed analysis of the differences between the statutory and effective income tax rates, see Note 6 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. In evaluating our ability to realize our net deferred tax asset we consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, tax planning strategies, and our forecast of future taxable income. In considering these sources of taxable income, we are responsible for making certain assumptions and judgments that are based on the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying business of the Company. Changes in our assumptions and estimates may materially impact the Companys income tax expense for the period. We will continue to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis. During fiscal 2004, we determined that this positive and negative evidence did not support recording the entire net deferred tax asset available. In accordance with this judgment, we have recorded a valuation allowance of $25 million against the net deferred tax asset. See Note 6 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding our deferred tax assets. We provide for United States income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless they are considered permanently invested outside of the United States or these foreign earnings would be remitted to the United States without incremental United States tax cost because of foreign tax credits. At March 31, 2004, the cumulative earnings upon which United States taxes have not been provided were approximately $778.0 million. If these earnings were repatriated to the United States, or they were no longer permanently re invested under APB 23, the potential deferred tax liability for these earnings would be approximately $252.0 million, assuming full utilization of the foreign tax credits associated with these earnings. We have federal net operating loss carryforwards of $96.6 million that will expire between 2005 and 2024, foreign tax credit carryforwards of $23.4 million that will expire between 2005 and 2009 and research and development tax credit carryforwards of $4.5 million that will expire in 2021. Of the $96.6 million net operating loss carryforwards, $2.1 million will expire in 2005. If we were not able to utilize the $2.1 million net operating loss, the expiration of this deferred tax asset would be partially offset by a $0.9 million valuation allowance that is recorded against this asset. Of the $23.4 million foreign tax credit carryforwards, $3.4 million will expire in 2005. We do not have a valuation allowance recorded against this $3.4 million deferred tax asset and if it expires unutilized we would record additional deferred tax expense of $3.4 million in fiscal 2005. As disclosed in previous filings, our corporate income tax returns for the fiscal years ended March 31, 1998 and 1999 were audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The IRS proposed certain adjustments to our tax returns, and we filed a protest to the IRS Appeals (Appeals) division. We continue to work with Appeals to finalize these audits. The IRS also issued a Revenue Agents Report (RAR) to us on March 2, 2004, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2000 and 2001. The changes proposed by the RAR are primarily related to our inter company pricing with our foreign affiliate vis vis the US Internal Revenue Code Section 482 rules and the regulations therein. We have filed a formal protest and requested a conference with the Office of Appeals. See Note 6 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others (FIN 45). FIN 45 requires certain guarantees to be recorded at fair value and requires a guarantor to make disclosures, even when the likelihood of making any payments under the guarantee is remote. The initial recognition and initial measurement provisions are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, and the disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. The adoption of FIN 45 did not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. We have provided the required disclosures in Note 9 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. 29 Table of Contents In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123. This Statement provides alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and requires prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. We have elected not to adopt the recognition and measurement provisions of SFAS No. 123 and continue to account for our stock based employee compensation plans under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations and therefore the transition provisions will not have an impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. We have provided the required expanded disclosures in Note 1(k) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, and In December 2003, the FASB issued a revised Interpretation No. 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51, (collectively FIN 46), both of which address consolidation of variable interest entities. FIN 46 requires the consolidation of entities in which an enterprise absorbs a majority of the entitys expected losses, receives a majority of the entitys expected residual returns, or both, as a result of ownership, contractual or other interests in the entity. Previously, entities were generally consolidated by an enterprise when it had a controlling financial interest through ownership of a majority voting interest in the entity. The consolidation requirements of FIN 46 apply to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003 and to older entities in the first fiscal year or interim period ending after March 15, 2004. The adoption of FIN 46 during fiscal 2004 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. This Statement amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities under SFAS No. 133. This Statement is effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003, except for the provisions that relate to SFAS No. 133 Implementation Issues that have been effective for quarters that began prior to June 15, 2003 and for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003. The adoption of SFAS No. 149 did not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity. This Statement requires an issuer to classify specified financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity as liabilities that were previously classified either entirely as equity or between the liabilities section and the equity section of the statement of financial position. This Statement is effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise is effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. The adoption of SFAS No. 150 did not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Quarterly Results The following table sets forth certain unaudited quarterly financial data for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003 and 2004. This information has been prepared on the same basis as the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and all necessary adjustments have been included in the amounts stated below to present fairly the selected quarterly information when read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. Quarters Ended June 30, Sept. 30, Dec. 31, Mar. 31, June 30, Sept. 30, Dec. 31, Mar. 31, 2002 2002 2002 2003 2003 2003 2003 2004 (In millions, except per share data) Total revenues $ 305.2 $ 291.2 $ 349.6 $ 380.7 $ 309.9 $ 333.8 $ 374.8 $ 400.2 Selling and marketing expenses 119.5 112.8 129.4 137.7 137.9 140.2 177.4 154.7 Research, development and support expenses 118.1 112.7 120.2 138.8 127.3 147.1 177.5 134.2 Cost of professional services 21.4 20.9 22.3 22.2 19.0 20.0 19.9 20.3 General and administrative expenses 36.0 35.4 41.1 37.7 37.3 47.9 46.9 48.0 Acquired research and development 12.0 1.0 Amortization and impairment of acquired technology, goodwill and intangibles 12.4 12.4 17.8 24.1 15.6 15.3 14.5 15.6 Merger related costs and compensation charges 0.6 Operating income (loss) (2.8 ) (3.0 ) 6.8 20.2 (27.2 ) (36.7 ) (61.4 ) 26.4 Net earnings (loss) $ 5.2 $ 10.1 $ 12.1 $ 20.6 $ (6.1 ) $ (13.2 ) $ (44.4 ) $ 36.9 Basic EPS $ 0.02 $ 0.04 $ 0.05 $ 0.09 $ (0.03 ) $ (0.06 ) $ (0.20 ) $ 0.16 Diluted EPS $ 0.02 $ 0.04 $ 0.05 $ 0.09 $ (0.03 ) $ (0.06 ) $ (0.20 ) $ 0.16 Shares used in computing basic EPS 240.9 239.1 234.6 232.7 229.6 227.1 225.5 224.6 Shares used in computing diluted EPS 242.5 239.8 235.5 234.0 229.6 227.1 225.5 227.9 31 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources One of our key strategies is to maintain and improve our capital structure. The key metrics we focus on in analyzing the strength of our balance sheet are summarized in the table below: Years Ended March 31, 2002 2003 2004 ($ in millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 582.8 $ 605.6 $ 498.7 Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities* $ 1,103.7 $ 1,015.3 $ 1,213.0 Accounts Receivable, net (includes current finance receivables) $ 312.5 $ 340.8 $ 348.1 Days Sales Outstanding (Q4) 85 81 79 Treasury stock acquired $ 155.1 $ 211.6 $ 170.1 Cash paid for technology acquisitions and other investments, net of cash acquired $ 19.9 $ 408.2 $ 61.0 * Includes both short and long term marketable securities. Operating Activities The table below aggregates certain line items from the cash flow statement to present the key items affecting cash from operating activities (in millions): Years Ended March 31, 2002 2003 2004 Net income (loss) after non cash adjustments $ 280.5 $ 333.2 $ 196.0 Decrease in accounts receivable and finance receivables 231.3 12.7 25.7 Increase in current and long term deferred revenue 109.3 194.0 222.9 All other, net (38.3 ) 65.7 54.1 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 582.8 $ 605.6 $ 498.7 The full Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. In fiscal 2003, the Company received a significant tax refund. In fiscal 2004, the decrease in net income (loss) after non cash adjustments is primarily due to a net loss for the period and a build up of deferred income tax benefits. We continue to finance our operations primarily through funds generated from operations. Our primary source of cash is the sale of our software licenses, software maintenance and professional services. We believe that our existing cash balances and funds generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we have a history of acquiring companies. If we were to make a significant acquisition in the future, we might find it advantageous to utilize third party financing sources based on factors such as our then available cash, its source (domestic vs. international), the cost of financing and our internal cost of capital. The net decrease in receivables was the result of strong management focus on collections as evidenced in our days sales outstanding, 81 days for the fourth quarter in fiscal 2003 to 79 days for the fourth quarter in fiscal 2004. The success of the recently introduced flexible license offerings was a key driver in the growth in bookings, which resulted in incremental cash flows. Our working capital as of March 31, 2004, was $438.0 million, reflecting an increase from the March 31, 2003 balance of $240.6 million due primarily to positive operating cash flow from operations and an increase in current marketable securities due to the timing of the securities respective maturities. 32 Table of Contents Investing Activities The table below aggregates certain line items from the cash flow statement to present the key items affecting investing activities (in millions): Years Ended March 31, 2002 2003 2004 Cash paid for technology acquisitions and other investments, net of cash acquired $ (19.9 ) $ (408.2 ) $ (61.0 ) Purchases of property and equipment (64.3 ) (23.6 ) (50.4 ) All other, net (24.4 ) 182.3 (137.0 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (108.6 ) $ (249.5 ) $ (248.4 ) The full Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. During fiscal 2003, we acquired IT Masters and the assets of Remedy, and in fiscal 2004, we acquired the assets of Magic. Purchases of property and equipment are primarily for computer hardware and software, as well as leasehold improvements. The main components of other cash used in investing activities were the net purchases of marketable securities and capitalization of software development costs. Financing Activities The table below aggregates certain line items from the cash flow statement to present the key items affecting our financing activities (in millions): Years Ended March 31, 2002 2003 2004 Payments on borrowings $ (150.0 ) $ (1.2 ) $ Treasury stock acquired (155.1 ) (211.6 ) (170.1 ) All other, net 21.3 26.1 26.4 Net cash used in financing activities $ (283.8 ) $ (186.7 ) $ (143.7 ) The full Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. There were no borrowings during fiscal 2004 and the main use of cash in financing activities was the acquisition of treasury stock. During the year, approximately 10.0 million shares of treasury stock were purchased. We plan to be consistent with our historical treasury stock purchase practices, subject to market conditions, other possible uses of our cash and our domestic liquidity position. See Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. The exercise of stock options was the primary source of cash in financing activities. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities At March 31, 2004, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $1,213.0 million, an increase of $197.7 million from the March 31, 2003 balance. As discussed in more detail below, this increase is primarily due to positive operating cash flow, which was offset by the cash funding for the Magic acquisition and other investing activities and treasury stock purchases. Approximately three quarters of the $1,213.0 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at March 31, 2004 is held in international locations 33 Table of Contents and was largely generated from our international operations. Our international operations have generated approximately $778.0 million of earnings for which U.S. income taxes have not been recorded. These earnings would be subject to U.S. income tax if repatriated to the United States. The potential deferred tax liability for these earnings is approximately $252.0 million; however, we have not provided a deferred tax liability on any portion of the $778.0 million as we plan to utilize our cash in international locations for foreign investment purposes. During fiscal 2003 and 2004, we utilized cash held in international locations to fund a portion of the Remedy purchase price, based upon the valuation of the foreign assets of Remedy acquired, the IT Masters purchase price and the assets of Magic. Our marketable securities are primarily investment grade and highly liquid. Because of current economic trends, we have begun investing in securities with shorter original maturities. On December 31, 2002, we reclassified our held to maturity portfolio to the available for sale portfolio. The amortized cost recorded on the balance sheet for the transferred securities was $396.1 million at the date of reclassification. When the securities were transferred to the available for sale portfolio, a net unrealized gain of $15.8 million was recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The transfer of securities from the held to maturity portfolio was made to increase our flexibility to react to the unprecedented volatility in the debt securities markets that developed over the quarters preceding the date of transfer. Finance Receivables We provide financing on a portion of our sales transactions to customers that meet our specified standards of creditworthiness. Our practice of providing financing at reasonable interest rates enhances our competitive position. We participate in established programs with third party financial institutions to securitize or sell a significant portion of our finance receivables, enabling us to collect cash sooner and remove credit risk. When we sell receivables in securitizations, we retain a beneficial interest in the securitized receivables, which is subordinate to the interests of the investors in the securitization conduit entities. At March 31, 2003 and 2004, the fair value of our retained subordinate interests was $14.2 million and $5.6 million, respectively, and is included in long term finance receivables in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our maximum exposure to loss at March 31, 2004, as a result of our involvement with the conduit entities is limited to the carrying value of the retained subordinate interest. Other finance receivables are sold to third party financial institutions on a non recourse basis. We record such transfers of beneficial interests in finance receivables to third party financial institutions as sales of such finance receivables when we have surrendered control of such receivables, including determining that such assets have been isolated beyond our reach and the reach of our creditors. We have not guaranteed the transferred receivables and have no obligation upon default. During the years ended March 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, we transferred $263.0 million, $376.8 million and $288.7 million, respectively, of such receivables through these programs. The high credit quality of our finance receivables and the existence of these third party facilities extend our ability to offer financing to qualifying customers on an ongoing basis. However, to meet the needs of our customers we have been providing more licensing options, and this increased focus on flexibility may lead to more customer transactions where cash payments will be received over time. This flexibility will reduce our ability to transfer finance receivables in the future and will reduce our cash flow from operations in the near term. See Note 4 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Beginning in the quarter ended December 31, 2002, the change in long term finance receivables has been reported as a component of cash flows from operating activities, whereas this was previously reported as a component of cash flows from investing activities. All periods presented have been reclassified for consistency. The change in long term finance receivables increased net cash provided by operating activities by $60.0 million in fiscal 2002, $0.5 million in fiscal 2003 and $17.2 million for fiscal 2004, respectively. Treasury Stock Purchased On April 24, 2000, our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to $500.0 million in common stock, and on July 30, 2002, they authorized the purchase of an additional $500.0 million. During the year ended March 31, 2004, we purchased 10.0 million shares for $170.1 million. From the inception of the repurchase plan through March 31, 2004, we have purchased 39.3 million shares for $692.6 million. The 34 Table of Contents repurchase program is funded solely with domestic cash and investments, and, therefore, affects the overall domestic versus foreign liquidity balances. Contractual Obligations Following is a summary of our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2004: Payments Due by Period 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years Total Capital lease obligations $ 15.0 $ 0.8 $ $ 15.8 Operating lease obligations 206.3 74.9 82.8 364.0 Purchase obligations(1) 4.4 0.1 4.5 Total contractual obligations(2) $ 225.7 $ 75.8 $ 82.8 $ 384.3 (1) Represents obligations under agreements with non cancelable terms to purchases goods or services. The agreements are enforceable and legally binding, and specify specific terms, including quantities to be purchased and the timing of the purchase. (2) Total does not include contractual obligations recorded on the balance sheet as current liabilities, other than capital lease obligations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We use off balance sheet arrangements where the economics and sound business principles warrant their use. Our principal use of off balance sheet arrangements occurs in connection with the securitization and sale of financial assets generated in the ordinary course of business by us and our subsidiaries. The assets securitized and sold (transferred) by us consist principally of trade finance receivables. We utilize a financial subsidiary and various wholly owned special purpose entities in these transfers. These entities are fully consolidated in our financial statements. We record the transfers as sales of the related accounts receivable when we are considered to have surrendered control of such receivables in accordance with SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in fiscal 2002 and 2003 we sold securitized finance receivables from customers with investment grade credit ratings through two special purpose entities sponsored by third party financial institutions. These entities are multi seller conduits with access to commercial paper markets (the conduit entities) that purchase interests in receivables from numerous other unrelated companies, as well as BMC. In a securitization transaction, we sell a senior interest in the receivables at a discount to a conduit entity in exchange for cash. Though wholly owned and consolidated by BMC, the special purpose entitys assets are legally isolated from our general creditors, and the conduit entities investors have no recourse to our other assets for the failure of our customers to pay when due. We have no ownership in either of the conduit entities and have no voting influence over the conduit entities operating and financial decisions. We retain a beneficial interest in securitized receivables which is subordinate to the interests of the investors in the conduit entities. The value of our retained subordinate interests is subject to credit and interest rate risk on the transferred financial assets. We expect the use of off balance sheet arrangements by us to decrease as we continue to offer more flexible license terms to our customers. Acquisitions In late April 2004, we announced the signing of a definitive merger agreement with Marimba. The proposed acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including the approval of Marimbas stockholders, and we anticipate closing this transaction during the second fiscal quarter. Our expected purchase price is approximately $239.0 million. This acquisition will strengthen our BSM related offerings through the addition of discovery and asset, change and configuration management capabilities. We plan to fund the net cash purchase price from existing cash balances. 35 Table of Contents Certain Risks and Uncertainties We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section describes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that we believe may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may experience a shortfall in revenue, license bookings or earnings in any given quarter or may announce lower than forecasted revenue, license bookings or earnings, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue, license bookings and earnings are difficult to forecast and are likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to many factors. In addition, a significant amount of our license transactions are completed during the final weeks and days of the quarter, and therefore we generally do not know whether revenue, earnings, license bookings and or cash flows will have met expectations until shortly after the end of the quarter. Any significant revenue, license bookings or earnings shortfall or lowered forecasts could cause our stock price to decline substantially. Factors that could affect our financial results include, but are not limited to: the unpredictability of the timing and magnitude of our sales through direct sales channels, value added resellers and distributors, which tend to occur late in each quarter; the possibility that our customers may choose to license our software under terms and conditions that require revenues to be deferred or recognized ratably over time rather than upfront and that we may not accurately forecast the resulting mix of license transactions between upfront and deferred revenues; the possibility that our customers may defer or limit purchases as a result of reduced information technology budgets or reduced data processing capacity demand; the possibility that our customers may elect not to license our products for additional processing capacity until their actual processing capacity or expected future processing capacity exceeds the capacity they have already licensed from us; the possibility that our customers may defer purchases of our products in anticipation of new products or product updates from us or our competitors; the timing of new product introductions by us and the markets acceptance of new products; higher than expected operating expenses changes in our pricing and distribution terms or those of our competitors; and the possibility that our business will be adversely affected as a result of the threat of significant external events that increase global economic uncertainty. Investors should not rely on the results of prior periods as an indication of our future performance. Our operating expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. If we have a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, we will not be able to reduce our operating expenses for that quarter proportionally in response. Therefore, any significant shortfall in revenue will likely have an immediate adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter. The markets for some or all of our key product lines may not grow. Some or all of our key product lines may not grow, may decline in growth, or customers may decline or forgo use of products in some or all of these product areas. A decline in these product areas could result in decreased demand for our products, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. Currently, a significant portion of our planned revenue growth is attributable to the Remedy product line. Although we believe that businesses will continue to demand the products in this area, there can be no assurance as to whether such future demand will continue to grow or not. Slower growth in this line will adversely affect our revenues. 36 Table of Contents We may have difficulty achieving our cash flow from operations goal. Our quarterly cash flow is and has been volatile. If our cash generated from operations proved in some future period to be materially less than the market expects, the market price of our common stock could decline. To meet the needs of our customers, we have been providing more licensing options, and this increased focus on flexibility may lead to more contracts that will be recognized ratably versus upfront and where cash payments may be received over time versus upfront. Factors that could adversely affect our cash flow from operations in the future include: reduced net earnings; increased time required for the collection of accounts receivable; an increase in uncollectible accounts receivable; a significant shift from multi year committed contracts to short term contracts; a reduced ability to transfer finance receivables to third parties and thus increased financing provided by us; an increase in contracts where expenses such as sales commissions are paid upfront but payments from customers are collected over time; reduced renewal rates for maintenance; and a reduced yield from marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents balances. Maintenance revenue could decline. Maintenance revenues have increased in each of the last three fiscal years as a result of the continuing growth in the base of installed products and the processing capacity on which they run. Maintenance fees increase as the processing capacity on which the products are installed increases; consequently, we receive higher absolute maintenance fees as customers install our products on additional processing capacity. Due to increased discounting for higher levels of additional processing capacity, the maintenance fees on a per unit of capacity basis are typically reduced in enterprise license agreements. In addition, customers may be entitled to reduced maintenance percentages for entering into long term maintenance contracts that include prepayment of the maintenance fees or that are supported by a formal financing arrangement. These discounts, combined with reduced maintenance percentages for long term contracts and the recent decline in our license revenues, have led to lower growth rates for our maintenance revenue, excluding the impact of Remedy revenues subsequent to the acquisition date. Further declines in our license revenue and or increased discounting would lead to declines in our maintenance revenues. Although renewal rates remain high, should customers migrate from their mainframe applications or find alternatives to our products, increased cancellations could lead to declines in our maintenance revenue. Our stock price is volatile. Our stock price has been and is highly volatile. Our stock price is highly influenced by current expectations of our future revenues, earnings and cash flows from operations. Any failure to meet anticipated revenue, earnings and cash flow from operations levels in a period or any negative change in our perceived long term growth prospects would likely have a significant adverse effect on our stock price. Intense competition and pricing pressures could adversely affect our earnings. The market for systems management software is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of software vendors including IBM, Hewlett Packard (HP), Computer Associates (CA) and a number of smaller software vendors. We derived a significant portion of our total revenues in fiscal 2004 from software products for IBM and IBM compatible mainframe computers. IBM continues, directly and through third parties, to enhance and market its utilities for IMS and DB2 as lower cost alternatives to the solutions provided by us and other independent software vendors. Although such utilities are currently less functional than our solutions, IBM continues to invest in the IMS and DB2 utility market. If IBM is successful with its efforts to achieve performance and functional equivalence with our IMS, DB2 and other products at a lower cost, our business would be materially adversely affected. In addition, IBM has announced its intention to acquire Candle Corporation whose products compete primarily with our MAINVIEW mainframe monitoring product line. As a large hardware vendor and outsourcer of IT services, IBM has the ability to bundle its other goods and services with its software and offer packaged solutions to customers, which could result in increased pricing pressure. To date, our solutions have competed well against IBMs because we have developed advanced automation and artificial intelligence features and our utilities have maintained a speed advantage. In addition, we believe that because we provide enterprise management solutions across multiple 37 Table of Contents platforms we are better positioned to provide customers with comprehensive management solutions for their complex multi vendor IT environments than integrated hardware and software companies like IBM. CA is also competing with us in these markets. Competition has led to increased pricing pressures within the mainframe software markets. We continue to reduce the cost to our customers of our mainframe tools and utilities in response to such competitive pressures. Although to date we have not experienced significant competition from Microsoft, their dominant position in the operating system market makes them capable of exerting competitive pressure in the systems management market as well. We also face competition from several niche software vendors, particularly for our distributed systems product lines. In addition, the software industry is experiencing continued consolidation. There is a risk that some of our competitors may combine and consolidate market positions or combine technology, making them stronger competitors. Our products must remain compatible with ever changing operating and database environments. IBM, HP, Microsoft and Oracle are by far the largest suppliers of systems and database software and, in many cases, are the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems used by most of our customers. Historically, operating and database system developers have modified or introduced new operating systems, database systems, systems software and computer hardware. Such new products could incorporate features which perform functions currently performed by our products or could require substantial modification of our products to maintain compatibility with these companies hardware or software. Although we have to date been able to adapt our products and our business to changes introduced by hardware manufacturers and operating and database system software developers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Failure to adapt our products in a timely manner to such changes or customer decisions to forego the use of our products in favor of those with comparable functionality contained either in the hardware or operating system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Future product development is dependent upon access to third party source code. In the past, licensees using proprietary operating systems were furnished with source code, which makes the operating system generally understandable to programmers, and object code, which directly controls the hardware and other technical documentation. Since the availability of source code facilitated the development of systems and applications software, which must interface with the operating systems, independent software vendors such as BMC Software were able to develop and market compatible software. IBM and other hardware vendors have a policy of restricting the use or availability of the source code for some of their operating systems. To date, this policy has not had a material effect on us. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may, in the future, result in higher research and development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and modification of our existing products and the development of new products. Although we do not expect that such restrictions will have this adverse effect, there can be no assurances that such restrictions or other restrictions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Future product development is dependent upon early access to third party operating and database systems. Operating and database system software developers have in the past provided us with early access to pre generally available (GA) versions of their software in order to have input into the functionality and to ensure that we can adapt our software to exploit new functionality in these systems. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may result in higher research and development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and modification of our existing products and the development of new products. Although we do not expect that such restrictions will have this adverse effect, there can be no assurances that such restrictions or other restrictions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 38 Table of Contents Future product development and sales are dependent on access to and reliability of third party software products. Certain of our software products contain components developed and maintained by third party software vendors. We expect that we may have to incorporate software from third party vendors in our future products or product offerings. We may not be able to replace the functionality provided by the third party software currently offered with our products if that software becomes obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products or is not adequately maintained or updated or if our relationship with the third party vendor terminates. Although we believe there are adequate alternate sources for the technology licensed to us, any significant interruption in the availability of these third party software products on commercially acceptable terms or defects in these products could delay development of future products or enhancement of future products and harm our sales. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Failure to adapt to technological change could adversely affect our earnings. If we fail to keep pace with technological change in our industry, such failure would have an adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. We operate in a highly competitive industry characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. During the past several years, many new technological advancements and competing products entered the marketplace. The distributed systems and application management markets in which we operate are far more crowded and competitive than our traditional mainframe systems management markets. Our ability to compete effectively and our growth prospects depend upon many factors, including the success of our existing distributed systems products, the timely introduction and success of future software products, and the ability of our products to interoperate and perform well with existing and future leading databases and other platforms supported by our products. We have experienced long development cycles and product delays in the past, particularly with some of our distributed systems products, and expect to have delays in the future. Delays in new product introductions or less than anticipated market acceptance of these new products are possible and would have an adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Discovery of errors in our software could adversely affect our earnings. The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of our products after commencement of commercial shipments. If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of customer support, our operating margins could be harmed. Moreover, we could face possible claims and higher development costs if our software contains undetected errors or if we fail to meet our customers expectations. These risks are increased as we implement our BSM strategy because as part of this strategy, we are combining already complex products to create solutions that are even more complicated than the aggregation of their product components. Significant technical challenges also arise with our products because our customers purchase and deploy our products across a variety of computer platforms and integrate them with a number of third party software applications and databases. These combinations increase our risk further because in the event of a system wide failure, it may be difficult to determine which product is at fault; thus, we may be harmed by the failure of another suppliers products. As a result of the foregoing, we could experience: loss of or delay in revenues and loss of market share; loss of customers; damage to our reputation; failure to achieve market acceptance; diversion of development resources; increased service and warranty costs; 39 Table of Contents legal actions by customers against us which could, whether or not successful, increase costs and distract our management; and increased insurance costs. In addition, a product liability claim, whether or not successful, could be time consuming and costly and thus could have a materially adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial positions. Failure to maintain our existing distribution channels and develop additional channels in the future could adversely affect revenues and earnings. With the acquisition of Remedy, the percentage of our revenue from sales of our products and services through distribution channels such as systems integrators and value added resellers is increasing. Conducting business through indirect distribution channels presents a number of risks, including: each of our systems integrators and value added resellers can cease marketing our products and services with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty; we may not be able to replace existing or recruit additional systems integrator or value added resellers if we lose any of our existing ones; our existing systems integrators and value added resellers may not be able to effectively sell new products and services that we may introduce; we do not have direct control over the business practices adopted by our systems integrators and value added resellers; our systems integrators and value added resellers may also offer competitive products and services and as such, may not give priority to the marketing of our products and services as compared to our competitors products; and we may face conflicts between the activities of our indirect channels and our direct sales and marketing activities. Changes in pricing practices could adversely affect revenues and earnings. We may choose to make changes to our product packaging, pricing or licensing programs in response to competition or customer demands or as a means to differentiate our product offerings. If made, such changes may have a material adverse impact on revenues or earnings. Our customers may not accept our product strategies. Historically, we have focused on selling software products to address specific customer problems associated with their applications. Our BSM strategy requires us to integrate multiple software products so that they work together to provide comprehensive systems management solutions. There can be no assurance that customers will perceive a need for such solutions. In addition, there may be technical difficulties in integrating individual products into a combined solution that may delay the introduction of such solutions to the market or adversely affect the demand for such solutions. We may also adopt different sales strategies for marketing our products, and there can be no assurance that our strategies for selling solutions will be successful. Changes to compensation of our sales organization may have unintended effects. We update our compensation plan for the sales organization periodically. These plans are intended to align with our business objectives of providing customer flexibility and satisfaction. The compensation plan may encourage behavior not anticipated or intended as it is implemented, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. 40 Table of Contents Risks related to business combinations. As part of our overall strategy, we have acquired or invested in, and plan to continue to acquire or invest in, complementary companies, products, and technologies and to enter into joint ventures and strategic alliances with other companies. Risks commonly encountered in such transactions include: the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the combined companies; the risk that we may not be able to integrate the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the inability to retain key technical, sales and managerial personnel; the inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful integration of acquired businesses; the risk that revenues from acquired companies, products and technologies do not meet our expectations; and decreases in reported earnings as a result of charges for in process research and development and amortization of acquired intangible assets. For us to maximize the return on our investments in acquired companies, the products of these entities must be integrated with our existing products. These integrations can be difficult and unpredictable, especially given the complexity of software and that acquired technology is typically developed independently and designed with no regard to integration. The difficulties are compounded when the products involved are well established because compatibility with the existing base of installed products must be preserved. Successful integration also requires coordination of different development and engineering teams. This too can be difficult and unpredictable because of possible cultural conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product integration efforts or that we will realize the expected benefits. With each of our acquisitions, we have initiated efforts to integrate the disparate cultures, employees, systems and products of these companies. Retention of key employees is critical to ensure the continued advancement, development, support, sales and marketing efforts pertaining to the acquired products. We have implemented retention programs to keep many of the key technical, sales and marketing employees of acquired companies; nonetheless, we have lost some key employees and may lose others in the future. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We carry out our business operations through legal entities in the US and multiple foreign jurisdictions. These operations require that we file corporate income tax returns that are subject to US, State and foreign tax laws. The US, State and Foreign tax liabilities are determined, in part, by the amount of operating profit generated in these different taxing jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate and net earnings could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of operating profits generated in countries with higher statutory tax rates. We are also required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets. This evaluation requires that our management assess the positive and negative evidence regarding sources of future taxable income. If managements assessment regarding the realizability of our deferred tax asset changes or we are presented with additional negative evidence regarding future sources of taxable income, we will be required to increase our valuation allowance, which will negatively impact our effective tax rate and net earnings. We are also subject to routine corporate income tax audits in multiple jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that may result from the examination of our corporate tax returns that have been filed in these jurisdictions. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of these examinations could be materially different from the amounts included in the provision for income taxes and result in additional tax expense. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual procedures to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or to reverse engineer or obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. There can also be no assurance that our intellectual property rights would survive a legal challenge to their validity or 41 Table of Contents provide significant protection for us. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Possibility of infringement claims. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties claiming infringement by our products of patent and other intellectual property rights. We expect that software products will increasingly be subject to such claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows and the functionality of products overlaps. In addition, we may receive more patent infringement claims as companies increasingly seek to patent their software and business methods and enforce such patents, especially given the increase in software and business method patents issued during the past several years. Regardless of its merit, responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements, which may not be offered or available on terms acceptable to us. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. Risks related to global operations. We maintain research and development operations in Israel, France and India, as well as the US, and continue to expand our international sales activities as part of our business strategy. As a result, we face increasing risks from our international operations, including, among others: difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; risk of actions that are inconsistent with acceptable business practices; longer payment cycles; seasonal reductions in business activity in Europe; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; potentially adverse tax consequences; changes in currency exchange rates; potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; the need to localize our products; political unrest or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have facilities; compliance with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; and licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers. We maintain a software development and information technology operations office in India, which operates as an extension of our primary development and information technology operations, and we contract with third party developers in India. As other software companies have done and are continuing to do, we plan to continue to allocate more development and IT resources to India with the expectation of achieving significant efficiencies, including reducing operational costs and permitting an around the clock development cycle. To date, the dispute between India and Pakistan involving the Kashmir region has not adversely affected our operations in India. Should we be unable to conduct operations in India in the future, we believe that our business could be temporarily adversely affected. We conduct substantial development and marketing operations in multiple locations in Israel and, accordingly, we are directly affected by economic, political and military conditions in Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading 42 Table of Contents partners could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We maintain comprehensive contingency and business continuity plans, and to date, the current conflict in the region and hostilities within Israel have not caused disruption of our operations located in Israel. Generally, our foreign sales are denominated in our foreign subsidiaries local currencies. If these currency exchange rates change unexpectedly, we could have significant gains or losses. The foreign currency to which we currently have the most significant exposure is the Euro. Additionally, fluctuations of the exchange rate of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar can affect our revenue within those markets, all of which may adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. Currently, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Such hedging requires us to estimate when transactions will occur and cash will be collected, and we may not be successful in making these estimates. If these estimates are inaccurate, particularly during periods of currency volatility, it could have a materially adverse affect on our on our business, results of operations or financial positions. Accounting pronouncements under consideration related to stock based compensation would reduce our reported earnings and could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel by reducing the stock based compensation we are able to provide. We have used stock options and other long term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that stock options and other long term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize long term stockholder value and, through the use of vesting, encourage employees to remain with BMC Software. In accounting for our stock option grants using the intrinsic value method under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, we recognize no compensation cost because the exercise price of options granted is equal to the market value of our common stock on the date of grant. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has proposed changes to US generally accepted accounting principles that, if implemented, would require us to record charges to earnings for employee stock option grants, which would negatively impact our earnings. For example, as disclosed in Note 1(k) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements, recording charges for employee stock options using the fair value method under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation would have reduced net earnings by $84.0 million, $62.4 million and $105.7 million for fiscal years 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. In addition, new regulations adopted by The New York Stock Exchange requiring stockholder approval for all stock option plans as well as new regulations prohibiting NYSE member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future. To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or costly to grant options and or other stock based compensation to employees, we may incur increased cash compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, either of which could materially adversely affect our business. Possible adverse impact of interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements. On April 1, 1998 and 1999 we adopted AICPA SOP 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, and SOP 98 9 Modification of SOP 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain Transactions, respectively. The adoption of these standards did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Based on our reading and interpretation of these SOPs, we believe that our current sales contract terms and business arrangements have been properly reported. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards or changes in our business practices could result in future changes in our revenue accounting policies that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to a variety of risks, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. In the normal course of business, we employ established policies and procedures to manage these risks including the use of derivative instruments. 43 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk We operate globally and the functional currency for most of our non U.S. enterprises is the local currency. For fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004, approximately 42%, 44% and 46% of our total revenues were derived from customers outside of North America, substantially all of which were billed and collected in foreign currencies. Similarly, substantially all of the expenses of operating our foreign subsidiaries are incurred in foreign currencies. As a result, our U.S. dollar earnings and net cash flows from international operations may be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. To minimize our risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we utilize certain derivative financial instruments. We primarily utilize two types of derivative financial instruments in managing our foreign currency exchange risk: forward exchange contracts and purchased option contracts. Forward exchange contracts are used to reduce currency exposure associated with our rights and obligations denominated in foreign currencies that subject us to transaction risk. The terms of these forward exchange contracts are generally one month or less and are entered into at the prevailing market rate at the end of each month. Forward exchange contracts and purchased option contracts, with terms generally less than one year, are used to hedge anticipated, but not firmly committed, sales transactions. Principal currencies hedged are the Euro and British pound in Europe, the Japanese yen and Australian dollar in the Asia Pacific region and the Israeli shekel. While we actively manage our foreign currency risks on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance our foreign currency hedging activities will offset the full impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Foreign currency fluctuations did not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position during fiscal 2002, 2003 or 2004. Based on our foreign currency exchange instruments outstanding at March 31, 2004, we estimate a one day maximum potential loss on our foreign currency exchange instruments of $3.1 million based on a value at risk (VAR) model utilizing Monte Carlo simulation. The comparable estimate based on our foreign currency exchange instruments outstanding at March 31, 2003 was $3.9 million utilizing the same model. The VAR model estimates were made assuming normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. The average VAR for the period was $3.3 million for fiscal 2004 and $3.1 million for fiscal 2003. The VAR model is a risk estimation tool, and as such, is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value that could be incurred. Interest Rate Risk Investments We adhere to a conservative investment policy, whereby our principle concern is the preservation of liquid funds while maximizing our yield on such assets. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities approximated $1.2 billion at March 31, 2004, and were primarily invested in different types of investment grade debt securities. Although our portfolio is subject to fluctuations in interest rates and market conditions, no gain or loss on any security would actually be recognized in earnings unless the instrument was sold or the loss in value was deemed to be other than temporary. Based on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and net cash flows for the year ended March 31, 2004, we estimate that a near term change in interest rates would not have a material effect on our future consolidated results of operations or cash flows or the fair values of the investments. We used a VAR variance covariance model to measure potential market risk on our marketable securities due to interest rate fluctuations. The VAR model estimates were made assuming normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. The VAR model is a risk estimation tool, and as such, is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value that could be incurred. 
 
