Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our license revenue comprised 40.4%, 41.8% and 39.6% of our total revenue in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For a discussion of our revenue recognition policies and the impact of our licensing models on revenue, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Revenue Recognition and Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Maintenance and Support Services Maintenance and support enrollment entitles software license customers to technical support services, including telephone and internet support and problem resolution services, and the right to receive unspecified product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period on a when and if available basis. Maintenance and support service fees are an important source of recurring revenue, and we invest significant resources in providing maintenance and support services. Revenue from maintenance and support services comprised 49.8%, 49.6% and 53.6% of our total revenue in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Software as a Service We provide on demand SaaS offerings within our ESM segment. These offerings, the first of which we introduced to the market in late fiscal 2010, provide management solutions through a hosted service rather than a traditional on premise license model and allow our customers to obtain the benefits of these solutions with reduced infrastructure and setup requirements, leading to faster deployment and lower total cost of ownership. These offerings are sold as either annual or multi year subscriptions with pricing generally based on the number of users. We also offer customer on boarding and other related services for these offerings. SaaS subscription revenue is recorded within maintenance revenue in our consolidated financial statements and to date has not represented a significant percentage of our total revenue. Professional Services Our professional services group consists of a worldwide team of experienced software and education consultants who provide implementation, integration, IT process, organizational design, re engineering and education services related to our products. By easing the implementation of our products, these services help our customers accelerate the time to value. By improving the overall customer experience, we believe that these services also drive future software license transactions with customers. Revenue from professional services comprised 9.8%, 8.6% and 6.8% of our total revenue in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 7 Research and Development We conduct research and development activities in various locations throughout the world. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, we incurred research and development expenses of $165.2 million, $181.6 million and $195.9 million, respectively. These costs relate primarily to personnel and related costs incurred to conduct product development activities. Although we develop many of our products internally, we may acquire technology through business combinations or through licensing from third parties when appropriate. Our expenditures on research and development activities during the last three fiscal years are further discussed under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Research and Development Expenses. Seasonality We tend to experience a higher volume of transactions and associated revenue in the quarter ended December 31, which is our third fiscal quarter, and the quarter ended March 31, which is our fourth fiscal quarter, as a result of our customers spending patterns and our annual sales quota incentives. As a result of this seasonality for license transactions and timing of related payments, we tend to have greater operating cash flow in our fourth fiscal quarter. However, general economic conditions also have an impact on our business and financial results. Competition The enterprise management software business is highly competitive. Both our ESM and MSM businesses compete against a number of enterprises, including large vendors who compete with us at a strategic solution level and across multiple product lines as well as smaller, niche companies who compete against individual products of ours. Our largest competitors are International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), CA, Inc. (CA) and Hewlett Packard Company (HP). Although we believe we are uniquely positioned to offer integrated BSM solutions to customers, several of our major competitors also market BSM like solutions and we anticipate continued competition in the BSM marketplace. There are currently between 50 and 100 companies we consider to be directly competitive with one or more of our software solutions. Some of these companies have substantially larger operations than ours in the specific markets in which we compete. With the acquisition of Numara, we now more regularly compete with smaller sized competitors as well. In addition, the software industry is experiencing continued consolidation which may change both the number of and specific companies with which we compete. Customers Our solutions are used by some of the largest, most demanding IT organizations in the world including over 20,000 companies and over 95% of the Forbes Global 100. Our software products are generally used in a broad range of industries, businesses and applications. Our most significant customers include banks and financial service providers, government agencies and other service providers. Our remaining customer base includes manufacturers, telecommunication companies, educational institutions, retailers, distributors, hospitals and other industries, as well as channel partners including resellers, distributors and systems integrators. Our ten largest customers comprised 20% or less of our total revenue in each of fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. No single customer accounted for a material portion of our revenue during any of the past three fiscal years. Intellectual Property We primarily distribute our products in object code form and rely upon contract, trade secret, copyright and patent laws to protect our intellectual property. The license agreements under which customers use our products restrict the customers use to its own operations and prohibit disclosure to third parties. We distribute certain of our products on a shrink wrap basis and the enforceability of such restrictions in a shrink wrap license is unproven in certain jurisdictions. Also, notwithstanding these restrictions, it is possible for other persons to obtain copies of our products in object code form. We expect that obtaining such copies would have limited value without access to the products source code, which we keep highly confidential. In addition, for certain of our solutions, we employ protective measures such as CPU dependent passwords, expiring passwords and time based software trials. Employees At March 31, 2012, we had approximately 6,900 full time employees. We expect that our continued success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including technical, sales and management resources. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section describes some of the risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows; these are not necessarily listed in terms of their importance or level of risk. 8 Weakened economic conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our operating results. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions. As a result of continued sluggishness of major global economies, the United States and other key international regions continue to experience significant economic and financial market uncertainty, including concerns over sovereign debt levels, significant unemployment, volatility in commodity prices and levels of inflation. The severity or length of time these economic and financial market concerns may persist is unknown. During challenging and uncertain economic times as well as periods of financial market instability and tight credit markets, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. Contract negotiations may become more protracted or difficult if customers institute additional internal approvals for software purchases or require more negotiation of contract terms and conditions. These economic conditions could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable or delayed payments, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, deterioration of the global credit markets could adversely impact our ability to complete sales of our solutions and services, including maintenance and support renewals, or the value of our financial assets. Any of these events would likely harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may announce lower than expected revenue, bookings, earnings or operating cash flows. Our ability to accurately and consistently predict revenue, bookings, earnings and operating cash flows within narrow ranges is weakened by two principal factors: first, a significant portion of our transactions close during the final days of each quarter; this pattern is evident across product lines and among all sales channels; and second, even after contracts have been executed, extensive analysis is required before the timing of revenue recognition can be reliably determined; this timing reflects both the complexity of the revenue recognition rules applicable to software and the effect that the various license types and other terms and conditions can have when these rules are applied. Numerous other factors, some listed below, also have the potential to adversely affect our financial results: customers may defer or limit purchases as a result of reduced information technology budgets or reduced data processing capacity demand; customers may require additional levels of internal approval prior to finalizing software purchases or renewals, which could lengthen the sales cycle and delay bookings and the resultant cash flows; we may lose customers to our competitors or due to customer consolidation; we may be required to defer more license revenue than we anticipate if our mix of complex transactions or contracts with terms and conditions requiring deferral of license revenue is greater than we plan for; we may be unable to adapt our solutions to customers needs in a market space defined by constant technological change; we may be unable to satisfy increased customer demands for our technical support services which may adversely affect our relationships with our customers; the timing of orders and delivery of products to our customers and channel partners is uncertain; we may experience losses on investments, foreign currency exchange contracts or other losses from financial instruments we hold that are exposed to market losses; we may experience unexpected changes or significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; tax rates in jurisdictions in which we operate may change; we may experience higher than expected operating expenses; 9 weighted average shares outstanding may increase unexpectedly due to much higher than expected exercises of stock options or a sudden and significant increase in our stock price causing our fully diluted weighted average shares outstanding to increase, either of which could cause reported earnings per share to decline; we may be affected by the timing of large, multi product transactions or become dependent upon such transactions; our pricing and distribution terms and or those of our competitors may change; and our business may be adversely affected as a result of the threat of significant external events that increase global economic uncertainty. Investors should not rely on the results of prior periods as an indication of our future performance. Our operating expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. If we have a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, we will not be able to proportionally reduce our operating expenses for that quarter in response to such a shortfall. Therefore, any significant shortfall in revenue will likely have an immediate adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter and could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, our ability to maintain or expand our operating margins may be limited given economic and competitive conditions, and we therefore could be reliant upon our ability to continually identify and implement operational improvements in order to maintain or reduce expense levels. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or expand our current operating margins in the future. Our cloud offerings bring new business and operational risks. We have introduced multiple new products and technology initiatives to provide systems management solutions in the emerging area of cloud computing. We include in this category our SaaS offerings. Our SaaS offerings provide our customers with existing and new software management through a hosted service as opposed to traditional software deployments. There can be no assurance that SaaS revenue will be significant in the future despite our levels of investment. There is a risk that our SaaS offerings may reduce demand for licenses and maintenance of our traditional software products which could impact our revenue and or operating margins. There is also a risk that our internal development and customer support teams could find it difficult or costly to support both traditional software installed by customers and software delivered as a service. To the extent that our new SaaS offerings are defective or there are disruptions to our services, demand for our SaaS offerings could diminish and we could be subject to substantial liability. In addition, interruptions or delays in service from our third party service delivery hosts could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. If we or our third party service delivery hosts experience security breaches and unauthorized access is obtained to a customers data or our data, our services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our services and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. Our success in the emerging area of cloud computing depends on organizations and customers perceiving technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the increasing adoption of virtual infrastructure solutions for on premise data centers as well as for cloud computing and end user computing. Concerns about security, privacy, availability, data integrity, retention and ownership may negatively impact the rate of adoption of cloud computing. Cloud computing environments are complex and the deployment of our systems management solutions in the cloud may require additional professional services and implementation services for which we may not have the ability to provide at an appropriate margin. In the cloud, our products are dependent upon third party hardware, software and cloud hosting vendors, all of which must interoperate for end users to achieve their computing goals. Since the cloud computing market is in the early stages of development, we expect other companies to enter this market and to introduce their own initiatives that may compete with, or not be compatible with, our cloud solutions. Additionally, operating margins on our new initiatives may be lower than those we have achieved in our more mature product markets, and our new initiatives may not generate sufficient revenue to recoup our investments in them. If any of these events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have difficulty achieving our cash flow from operations goals. Our quarterly cash flow from operations is and has been volatile. If our cash generated from operations in some future period is materially less than the market expects, our stock price could decline. Factors that could adversely affect our cash flow from operations in the future include: lengthening sales cycles; a reduction in the size of transactions; the timing of transaction completion, billings and associated cash collections within a particular period; longer customer payment terms; an increase in late payments by customers; an increase in uncollectible accounts receivable; increased expenses; reduced net earnings; a significant shift from multi year committed contracts to short term contracts; a reduced ability to transfer finance receivables to third parties; an increase in contracts where internal costs such as sales commissions are paid upfront but payments from customers are collected over time; reduced renewal rates for maintenance; an increase in cash taxes; payments for legal actions, costs, fees or settlements; restructuring payments; the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates; and reduced yields on investments and cash equivalents. 10 Maintenance revenue could decline. Maintenance revenue is an important source of recurring revenue, and we invest significant resources to provide maintenance and support services to our customers. Maintenance fees generally increase as the licensed capacity increases; consequently, we generally receive higher absolute maintenance fees with new license and maintenance agreements and as existing customers license our products for additional processing capacity. Price competition on enterprise transactions can lead to increased discounting for higher levels of supplemental processing capacity; the maintenance fees on a per unit of capacity basis are typically reduced in enterprise license agreements. In addition, customers are generally entitled to reduced annual maintenance fees for entering into long term maintenance contracts. Declines in our license bookings, increases in the proportion of long term maintenance contracts and or increased discounting could lead to declines in our maintenance revenue growth rates. Should customers migrate from systems and applications which our products support, utilize alternatives to our products, including maintenance free solutions such as on demand, or become dissatisfied with our maintenance services, increased cancellations could lead to declines in our maintenance revenue. As maintenance revenue makes up a substantial portion of our total revenue, any decline in our maintenance revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our professional services business is growing but could impact our overall margins. Our professional services business has been growing as our overall bookings have grown and customers have contracted with us to provide implementation and other value adding services. There are a number of risks associated with our professional services business which could impact our ability to deliver high quality services and which could impact our overall profit margin. These include the availability and our ability to engage quality labor resources, both as employees and as third party contractors, incremental costs associated with third party contractors, the complexity of services engagements, contractual risks, pricing and bidding risks and potential cost overruns. If we are not able to effectively manage the growth of our professional services business, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our operating results, including our profit margin. Competition from large, powerful multi line and small, agile single line competitors could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. Some of our largest competitors, including IBM, CA and HP, have significant scale advantages. With scale comes a large installed base of customers in particular market niches, as well as the ability to develop and market software competitive with ours. Some of these competitors can also bundle hardware, software and services together, which is a disadvantage for us since we are not a hardware provider and have fewer services offerings. Competitive products are also offered by numerous independent software companies that specialize in specific aspects of the highly fragmented software industry. Some, like Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), Oracle Corporation (Oracle), and SAP AG (SAP) are the leading developers and vendors in their specialized markets. In addition, new companies enter the market on a frequent and regular basis, offering products that compete with some individual products offered by us. Market entrants utilizing alternative business models such as SaaS, cloud computing or open source software also compete against us. As the use of open source software becomes more widespread, certain open source technology could become competitive with our proprietary technology, which could cause sales of our products to decline or force us to reduce the fees we charge for our products. Other data center vendors may expand into systems management to complement their existing offerings. Additionally, many customers historically have developed their own products that compete with those offered by us. Competition from any of these sources can result in price reductions or displacement of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Industry consolidation could affect prices or demand for our products. The IT industry and the market for our systems management products are very competitive due to a variety of factors. As the enterprise systems software market matures, it is consolidating. This trend could create opportunities for larger companies, such as IBM, HP, Microsoft, Oracle and other large enterprise software and hardware companies, to increase their market share through the acquisition of companies that dominate certain lucrative market niches or that have loyal installed customer bases. In doing so, these competitors may be able to reduce prices on software that competes with our solutions, in part by leveraging their larger economies of scale. Consolidation also may permit competitors to offer a broader suite of products and more comprehensive bundled solutions, including hardware, software and services. We expect this trend towards consolidation to continue as companies attempt to maintain or extend their market and competitive positions in the rapidly changing software industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. This industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results due to lengthening of the customer evaluation process, increased pricing pressure and or loss of business to these larger competitors, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 11 Our products must remain compatible with ever changing operating and database environments. IBM, HP, Microsoft and Oracle are by far the largest suppliers of systems and database software and, in some cases, are the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems used by most of our customers. Historically, operating and database system developers have modified or introduced new operating systems, database systems, systems software and computer hardware. Such new products could incorporate features which perform functions currently performed by our products or could require substantial modification of our products to maintain compatibility with these companies hardware or software. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adapt our products and our business to changes introduced by hardware manufacturers and operating and database system software developers. Operating and database system software developers have in the past provided us with early access to versions of their software, before making such software generally available, to have input into the functionality and to ensure that we can adapt our software to exploit new functionality in these systems. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may result in higher research and development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and modification of our existing products and the development of new products. Failure to adapt our products in a timely manner to changes in operating and database systems, or any product quality and performance issues with the underlying databases or operating systems resulting in degradation of our products quality and performance, could influence customer decisions to forego the use of our products in favor of those with comparable functionality offered by competitors or within the operating system and database functionality itself which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Future product development is dependent upon access to and reliability of third party software products and open source software. Certain of our software products contain components developed and maintained by third party software vendors. We expect that we may have to incorporate software from third party vendors in our future products. We also incorporate open source software in certain of our software products. We may not be able to replace the functionality provided by the third party or open source software currently offered with our products if that software becomes obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products or is not adequately maintained or updated, or if our relationship with the third party vendor terminates. In addition, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of, and compliance with the licensing requirements of, open source software. Any significant interruption in the availability of these third party software products on commercially acceptable terms, defects in these products or our inability to comply with the licensing terms of either third party commercial software or open source software could delay development of future products or enhancement of future products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Future product development is dependent on adequate research and development resources. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to develop new products and enhancements to our existing products. This is particularly true as we further expand our BSM, cloud and SaaS offerings and capabilities. Maintaining adequate research and development resources to meet the demands of the market is essential. Failure to do so could present an advantage to our competitors. Furthermore, if we are unable to develop products internally due to certain constraints, such as high employee turnover, lack of management ability or a lack of other development resources, it may force us to expand into a certain market or strategy via an acquisition for which we could potentially pay too much or unsuccessfully integrate into our operations. Discovery of errors in our software could adversely affect our earnings. The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of our products after commencement of commercial delivery. If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of customer support, our operating margins could be harmed. Moreover, we could face possible claims and higher development costs if our software contains undetected errors or if we fail to meet our customers expectations. With our BSM strategy, these risks increase because we are combining already complex products to create solutions that are even more complicated than the aggregation of their product components. Significant technical challenges could also arise with our products because our customers purchase and deploy our products across a variety of computer platforms and integrate them with a number of third party software applications and databases. These combinations increase our risk further because in the event of a system wide failure, it may be difficult to determine which product is at fault; thus, we may be harmed by the failure of another suppliers products. As a result of the foregoing, we could experience loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; loss of customers; damage to our reputation; failure to achieve market acceptance; diversion of development resources; increased service and warranty costs; legal actions by customers against us which could, whether or not successful, increase costs and distract our management; and increased insurance costs. 12 We are subject to risks associated with our indirect distribution channels. A portion of our revenue is derived from the sale of our products and services through indirect distribution channels such as resellers, systems integrators and strategic partners. In addition, we maintain strategic agreements with hardware vendors permitting them to sell our software solutions as part of their hardware systems. Conducting business through indirect distribution channels presents a number of risks, including: our indirect channel partners typically can cease marketing our products and services with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty; we may not be able to replace existing or recruit additional indirect channel partners if we lose any of our existing ones; our existing indirect channel partners may not be able to effectively sell new products and services that we may introduce; we do not have direct control over the business practices, compliance programs and processes or risk management policies adopted by our indirect channel partners and they may engage in inappropriate practices without our knowledge which could result in penalties and or reputational damage to us; our indirect channel partners may not be able to deliver the same quality or standard of services that we do which may require us to engage with their customers at a direct cost to us to protect our product and services standards and reputation; our indirect channel partners may also offer competitive products and services through acquisition or internal development and as such, may not give priority to the marketing of our products and services as compared to our competitors products; we may face conflicts between the activities of our indirect channels and our direct sales and marketing activities; our indirect channel partners may experience financial difficulties that may impact their ability to market our products and may lead to delays, or even default, in their payment obligations to us; and we also depend on our indirect channel partners for accurate and timely reporting of our channel sales; any disruption, delay or under reporting by our indirect channel partners could have an adverse effect on our bookings, revenues and cash flows. Changes to our sales organization can be disruptive and may negatively impact our results of operations. From time to time, we make significant changes in the organizational structure and compensation plans of our sales organizations. To the extent that we experience turnover within our direct sales force or sales management, there is a risk that the productivity of our sales force would be negatively impacted which could lead to revenue declines. Turnover within our sales force can require significant severance expense and cause disruption in sales cycles leading to delay or loss of business. In addition, it can take time to implement new sales management plans and to effectively recruit and train new sales representatives. We review and modify our compensation plans for the sales organization periodically. As in most years, we have made changes for fiscal 2013 that are intended to align with our business objectives, including the recent introduction of new customer segmentation and sales models within our ESM segment. Changes to our sales compensation plans could make it difficult for us to attract and retain top sales talent. We are subject to risks related to business combinations. As part of our overall strategy, we have acquired or invested in, and likely will continue to acquire or invest in, complementary companies, products and technologies. Risks commonly encountered in such transactions include: we may not retain and integrate key technical, sales and managerial personnel; we may not assimilate the personnel, culture and operations of the combined companies, including back office functions and systems, such as accounting, human resources and others, into our own back office functions and systems; we may not be able to integrate the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; our ongoing business could be disrupted, including management being distracted from other objectives, opportunities and risks; 13 we may not maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful integration of acquired businesses; our policies, procedures and controls may not be applied to the acquired entity in a timely manner following the acquisition; relationships with the acquired entitys customers, partners or vendors might degrade, creating challenges for us to meet the objectives of the acquisition; our pre acquisition due diligence may fail to identify technology issues, such as problems with software code, architecture or functionality, intellectual property ownership issues, employment or management issues, customer or partner issues, errors or irregularities in the accounting or financial reporting of the target, unknown liabilities of the target, legal contingencies, compliance failures or other issues; revenue from acquired companies, products and technologies may not meet our expectations; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases; similarly, existing stockholders could be diluted and earnings per share may decrease if we were to issue a significant amount of equity securities as full or partial consideration in future acquisitions; and our chosen strategy leading to the acquisition may not be the appropriate strategy or our resources may be better utilized developing technology via internal product development. In order for us to maximize the return on our investments in acquired companies, the products of these entities must be integrated with our existing products and strategies. These integrations can be difficult and unpredictable, especially given the complexity of software and that acquired technology is typically developed independently and may not have been designed to integrate with our products. The difficulties are compounded when the products involved are well established because compatibility with the existing base of installed products must be preserved. Successful integration also requires coordination of different development and engineering teams. This too can be difficult and unpredictable because of possible cultural conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product integration efforts or that we will realize the expected benefits. Changes in tax law, changes in our effective tax rate or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and financial condition. We carry out our business operations through entities in the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions. As such, we are required to file corporate income tax returns that are subject to United States, state and foreign tax laws. The United States, state and foreign tax liabilities are determined, in part, by the amount of operating profit generated in these different taxing jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate, earnings and operating cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of operating profits generated in countries with higher statutory tax rates as well as by the positioning of our cash balances globally. Our effective tax rate is also impacted by the portion of our foreign earnings in jurisdictions having different corporate tax rates than the United States when we deem such earnings to be indefinitely reinvested in such jurisdictions. If we were to determine that these foreign earnings were not indefinitely reinvested, our effective tax rate, earnings and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. Similarly, if statutory tax rates or tax bases were to increase or if changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations were made that impact us directly, our effective tax rate, earnings and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. We are also required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets. This evaluation requires that our management assess the positive and negative evidence regarding sources of future taxable income. If managements assessment regarding the realizability of our deferred tax assets changes, we will be required to increase our valuation allowance, which will negatively impact our effective tax rate and earnings. We are also subject to routine corporate income tax audits in multiple jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that may result from the examination of our corporate tax returns that have been filed in these jurisdictions. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of these examinations could be materially different from the amounts included in the provision for income taxes and result in additional tax expense and operating cash outflows. 14 We must protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual procedures to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to misappropriate, copy or pirate certain portions of our products or to reverse engineer or obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. There can also be no assurance that our intellectual property rights would survive a legal challenge as to their validity or provide significant protection for us, and any such legal actions could become costly. In addition, the laws or practices of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position and revenue. Third parties may claim that our software products or services infringe on their intellectual property rights, exposing us to litigation that, regardless of merit, may be costly to defend. Our success and ability to compete are also dependent upon our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that our current or future products or services infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Any such claim, with or without merit, could have a significant effect on our business and financial results. Any future third party claim could be time consuming, divert managements attention from our business operations and result in substantial litigation costs, including any monetary damages and customer indemnification obligations, which may result from such claims. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief affecting our ability to license the products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property. As a result of such claims, we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties, develop alternative technology or redesign our products. We cannot be sure that such licenses would be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If a successful claim is made against us and we are unable to develop or license alternative technology, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to risks related to global operations. We are a global company that conducts sales, sales support, professional services, product development and support, marketing and product distribution services from numerous offices throughout the world. We are subject to a variety of risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including: difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including compliance with local labor and employment laws; non compliance with our professional conduct policy and code of ethics or other corporate policies; longer payment cycles; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; adverse tax consequences; adverse impact of inflation; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; impact from volatile or sluggish local economies or global macroeconomic conditions; loss of proprietary information, including intellectual property, due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; the need to localize our products; lack of appropriate local infrastructure to carry out operations; political unrest, war or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have employees and facilities; potential vulnerability to computer system, internet or other systemic attacks, such as denial of service, viruses or other malware which may be caused by criminals, terrorists or other sophisticated organizations; 15 compliance with a wide variety of complex laws, regulations and treaties including unexpected changes in (or new) legislative or regulatory requirements, early termination of contracts with government agencies, audits, investigations, sanctions or penalties; licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; and natural disaster, disease or other extraordinary events impacting business continuity. U.S. and international laws and regulations that apply to our global operations are complex and increase our cost of doing business. U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our international operations include the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and export control laws. International laws and regulations include local laws which also prohibit bribery, including commercial bribery (including the UK Bribery Act), and corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti competition regulations, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. We have adopted and implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with U.S. laws and the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in criminal or civil fines against us, our officers or our employees; restrictions on the conduct of our business; harm to our brand or reputation; and delays in potential acquisitions. Such violations could result in penalties and other restrictions that may, under certain circumstances, materially and adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. The unique risks of operating in a particular country may require us to adopt a different business approach or strategy in that particular country which could increase our cost of doing business or limit the type of business activities we can perform in such country. In addition, if we suffer a business disruption due to any of the risks listed above and do not have in place or are not able to implement adequate response plans, our ability to support customers and maintain normal business operations for a significant length of time could be hindered such that our competitive position could be significantly impacted. Furthermore, our financial condition could be adversely impacted if our costs to recover escalate due to such recovery occurring over a protracted period. We maintain a significant presence in India, Israel and other emerging market countries, conducting substantial software development and support, marketing operations, IT operations and certain financial operations in those locations. Accordingly, we are directly affected by economic, political, physical and electrical infrastructure and military conditions in these countries. Any major hostilities or the interruption or curtailment of trade between these countries and their present trading partners could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We maintain contingency and business continuity plans for all significant locations, and to date, various regional conflicts or other local economic or political issues have not caused any major adverse impact on our operations in these countries. Should we be unable to conduct operations in these regions in the future, and our contingency and business continuity plans are unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, as the software and technology labor market in these countries has developed at a rapid pace, with many multi national companies competing for talent, there is a risk that wage and attrition rates will rise faster than we have anticipated which could lead to operational issues. We face exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. We conduct significant transactions, including intercompany transactions, in currencies other than the United States dollar or the functional operating currency of the transactional entities, and our global subsidiaries maintain significant net assets that are denominated in currencies other than the functional operating currencies of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar can significantly affect our revenues and operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurement that is reflected in our earnings. While we maintain a hedging program to hedge certain transactional exposures in foreign currencies in an attempt to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risks, this program may not fully mitigate all such risk. We may also experience foreign currency exchange rate gains and losses where it is not cost effective to hedge foreign currencies in part or in full. Additionally, our efforts under this program may not be successful if we were to fail to properly detect or manage foreign currency exchange rate exposures, which could also adversely impact our operating results and operating cash flows. We may lose key personnel, may not be able to hire enough qualified personnel or may fail to integrate replacement personnel. Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including sales, technical and management resources and the availability of skilled contract labor. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. Changing demographics and labor work force trends may result in a loss of knowledge and skills as experienced workers retire. Effective succession planning is also important to our long term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. In addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or our personnel. With rare exceptions, we do not have long term employment agreements with our employees. Further, certain of our key personnel receive a total compensation package that includes equity awards. New regulations, volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish our use, and or the value, of our equity awards, putting us at a competitive disadvantage or forcing us to use more cash compensation. 16 In addition, we continually focus on improving our cost structure. We have been hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs and we frequently utilize contract labor for short term needs. When we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. We may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues which may affect our employee retention efforts, increase our dependence on contract labor and or increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program for full time employees. We have also undertaken restructuring actions over the past several years to improve our cost structure involving significant reductions in our workforce, relocation of job functions to overseas locations and changes to our organizational structure. We will continue to make organizational changes aimed at improving our operating margins and driving operating efficiencies. Some of these changes may result in future workforce reductions or rebalancing actions. These efforts place a strain on our management, administrative, technical, operational and financial infrastructure. If we fail to manage these changes effectively, it could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and our operating results. Our business and products are dependent on the availability, integrity and security of IT systems. Our IT systems and related software applications are integral to our business. We rely on controls and systems to ensure data integrity of critical business information. Lack of data integrity could create inaccuracies and hinder our ability to perform meaningful business analysis and make informed business decisions. Computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate, copy or pirate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause interruptions or shutdowns of our internal systems and services. A number of websites have been subject to denial of service attacks, where a website is bombarded with information requests eventually causing the website to overload, resulting in a delay or disruption of service. Also, there is a growing trend of advanced persistent threats being launched by organized and coordinated groups against corporate networks to breach security for malicious purposes. If successful, any of these events could damage our computer systems or those of our customers and could disrupt or prevent us from providing timely maintenance and support for our products. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers and may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution and other critical functions. In the course of our regular business operations and providing maintenance support services to our customers, we process and transmit proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of employees, customers and others. Breaches in security could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in potential regulatory actions, litigation and potential liability for us, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers and damage to our brand and reputation. Despite network security, disaster recovery and systems management measures in place, we may encounter unexpected general systems outages or failures that may affect our ability to conduct research and development, provide maintenance and support of our products, manage our contractual arrangements, accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record our transactions, provide critical information to our management and prepare our financial statements. Additionally, these unexpected systems outages or failures may require additional personnel and financial resources, disrupt our business or cause delays in the reporting of our financial results. We may also be required to modify, enhance, upgrade or implement new systems, procedures and controls to reflect changes in our business or technological advancements, which could cause us to incur additional costs and require additional management attention, placing burdens on our internal resources. We also outsource certain IT related functions to third parties that are responsible for maintaining their own network security, disaster recovery and systems management procedures. If we, or our third party IT vendors, fail to manage our IT systems and related software applications effectively, it could adversely affect our business operations, operating results and cash flows. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 ITEM 2. Properties Our headquarters are located in Houston, Texas, where we lease approximately 570,000 square feet of office space. We also maintain software development and sales organizations in various locations around the world where we lease the necessary facilities. A summary of our principal leased properties currently in use is as follows: Location ApproximateArea (sq. ft.) Lease Expiration Houston, Texas 570,000 June 30, 2021 Pune, India 162,000 September 30, 2014 Austin, Texas 106,000 December 31, 2013 San Jose, California 62,000 May 31, 2019 Tel Aviv, Israel 51,000 July 10, 2012 Egham, United Kingdom 47,000 April 26, 2019 Tampa, Florida 37,000 April 30, 2013 Lexington, Massachusetts 32,000 February 28, 2013 Tel Hai, Israel 30,000 October 31, 2014 McLean, Virginia 28,000 November 30, 2013 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business. We do not believe that the outcome of any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 4. (Removed and Reserved) 18 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market and trades under the symbol BMC. On May 4, 2012, there were 585 holders of record of our common stock. The following table sets forth the high and low intra day sales prices per share of our common stock for the periods indicated: Price Range ofCommon Stock High Low FISCAL 2012 Fourth Quarter $ 40.38 $ 31.62 Third Quarter $ 41.05 $ 32.19 Second Quarter $ 56.55 $ 37.19 First Quarter $ 56.16 $ 48.46 FISCAL 2011 Fourth Quarter $ 51.03 $ 46.31 Third Quarter $ 49.11 $ 38.95 Second Quarter $ 41.51 $ 34.24 First Quarter $ 41.27 $ 34.58 We have never declared or paid dividends to BMC Software stockholders. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings otherwise available for cash dividends on our common stock for use in our operations, for acquisitions and for common stock repurchases. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. The graph below shows the relative investment performance of our common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Systems Software Index for the last five years, assuming reinvestment of dividends at date of payment into the common stock of the indices. The following graph is presented pursuant to SEC rules and is not meant to be an indication of our future performance. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among BMC Software, Inc., the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Systems Software Index * $100 invested on March 31, 2007 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. 19 ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Period Total Number ofSharesPurchased (1) Average PricePaid perShare Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part of aPublicly AnnouncedProgram (2) Total Dollar Valueof Shares Purchasedas Part of aPublicly AnnouncedProgram (2) Approximate DollarValue of Shares thatmay yet bePurchased Underthe Program (2) January 1 31, 2012 1,097,320 $ 33.15 1,085,700 $ 35,995,017 $ 964,273,805 February 1 29, 2012 1,553,257 $ 38.39 1,399,600 53,728,804 $ 910,545,001 March 1 31, 2012 1,585,572 $ 38.20 1,579,428 60,327,344 $ 850,217,657 Quarterly Total 4,236,149 $ 36.92 4,064,728 $ 150,051,165 $ 850,217,657 Fiscal 2012 Total 20,053,491 $ 40.67 19,190,854 $ 780,503,446 $ 850,217,657 (1) Includes 171,421 and 862,637 shares of our common stock withheld by us to satisfy employee tax withholding obligations during the quarter and year ended March 31, 2012, respectively. (2) Our Board of Directors has authorized a total of $5.0 billion to repurchase common stock. At March 31, 2012, approximately $850.2 million remains authorized in this stock repurchase program and the program does not have an expiration date. Information regarding our equity compensation plans at March 31, 2012 is incorporated by reference into Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 20 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data presented for, and at the end of, each of the years in the five year period ended March 31, 2012, are derived from our consolidated financial statements. The following business combinations during the five year period ended March 31, 2012 were accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting, and accordingly, the financial results of these acquired businesses have been included in our financial results below from the indicated acquisition dates: Numara Software Holdings, Inc. in February 2012; I/O Concepts Software Corporation in December 2011; StreamStep, Inc. in September 2011; Neon Enterprise Software, LLCs portfolio of IMS solution software in June 2011; Aeroprise, Inc. in June 2011; Coradiant Inc. in April 2011; GridApp Systems, Inc. in November 2010; the software business of Neptuny S.r.l. in October 2010; Phurnace Software, Inc. in December 2009; Tideway Systems Limited in October 2009; MQSoftware, Inc. in August 2009; BladeLogic, Inc. (BladeLogic) in April 2008; Emprisa Networks, Inc. in October 2007; RealOps, Inc. in July 2007 and ProactiveNet, Inc. in June 2007. The operating results for fiscal 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 below include severance, exit costs and related charges of $10.8 million, $14.3 million, $3.0 million, $33.5 million and $14.7 million, respectively. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded net tax benefits of approximately $6.2 million, $57.2 million and $30.0 million, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters. During fiscal 2009, we wrote off acquired in process research and development (IPR&D) of $50.3 million in connection with our acquisition of BladeLogic, and we recorded $6.8 million of tax expense associated with an intercompany transfer of the IPR&D. The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements at March 31, 2012 and 2011, and for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2012, the accompanying notes and the report of the independent registered public accounting firm thereon, which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 21 Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, except per share data) Statement of Operations Data: Total revenue $ 2,172.0 $ 2,065.3 $ 1,911.2 $ 1,871.9 $ 1,731.6 Operating income $ 543.9 $ 532.8 $ 506.1 $ 367.8 $ 357.5 Net earnings $ 401.0 $ 456.2 $ 406.1 $ 238.1 $ 313.6 Basic earnings per share $ 2.36 $ 2.55 $ 2.21 $ 1.27 $ 1.59 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.32 $ 2.50 $ 2.17 $ 1.25 $ 1.56 Shares used in computing basic earnings per share 169.9 178.7 183.1 187.1 194.8 Shares used in computing diluted earnings per share 172.8 182.4 186.8 190.2 199.6 At March 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,496.9 $ 1,660.9 $ 1,368.6 $ 1,023.3 $ 1,288.3 Investments 138.7 95.6 127.9 145.9 186.9 Working capital 767.3 877.1 561.2 239.4 532.7 Total assets 4,864.4 4,485.4 4,137.6 3,697.5 3,345.5 Long term borrowings 821.6 335.6 340.9 313.6 9.2 Deferred revenue 1,993.9 1,955.5 1,823.1 1,787.9 1,779.4 Stockholders equity 1,445.8 1,662.9 1,387.7 1,048.5 994.5 22 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations It is important that this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto which appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following discussion contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Unless indicated otherwise, results of operations data in this MD&A are presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Additionally, in an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding our results of operations, certain non GAAP financial measures including non GAAP operating income, non GAAP net earnings and non GAAP diluted earnings per share are provided in this MD&A. See Non GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations below for an explanation of our use of non GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to their corresponding measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Overview Our fiscal 2012 financial performance was solid across most of our core financial metrics. However, year over year ESM license bookings declined and were below our original expectations; refer to the additional discussion regarding ESM license bookings below. Select operating metrics for fiscal 2012 include: Total bookings, which represent the contract value of transactions closed and recorded, were $2,196.8 million, essentially flat as compared to fiscal 2011. During fiscal 2012, one large transaction generated total bookings of over $100 million, principally related to our MSM business. Total license bookings were $882.4 million, representing a decrease of $44.0 million, or 4.7%, from fiscal 2011. During fiscal 2012, we closed 158 transactions with license values over $1 million (with total license bookings of $480.0 million) compared with 162 transactions with license values over $1 million (with total license bookings of $498.1 million) in fiscal 2011. Within our ESM segment, where we evaluate performance on the basis of license bookings, total license bookings decreased by $64.7 million, or 11.3%, from fiscal 2011. We attribute this decrease principally to sales related factors, including a decline in productive sales capacity caused by sales force attrition as well as a decrease in productivity associated with a reduction in average sales force tenure and experience levels. ESM license bookings in the current year have also been adversely impacted by challenging economic and financial conditions in key geographic areas and market segments, particularly within certain European regions and the U.S. public sector. Within our MSM segment, where we evaluate performance based on total and annualized bookings, total bookings for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2012 increased by $51.9 million, or 6.2%, and on an annualized basis, after normalizing for contract length, decreased by $27.0 million, or 9.3%, as compared to the prior year period. Over the trailing 36 months ended March 31, 2012, total MSM bookings increased by $156.7 million, or 6.5%, and annualized bookings, after normalizing for contract length, were essentially flat as compared to the prior year period. Total revenue was $2,172.0 million, representing an increase of $106.7 million, or 5.2%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was reflective of license, maintenance and professional services revenue increases of $13.3 million, or 1.5%, $56.2 million, or 5.5%, and $37.2 million, or 21.1%, respectively. On a segment basis, total ESM revenue increased by $63.1 million, or 4.9%, and total MSM revenue increased by $43.6 million, or 5.5%, over fiscal 2011. Operating income was $543.9 million, representing an increase of $11.1 million, or 2.1%, over fiscal 2011. Non GAAP operating income was $779.6 million, representing an increase of $46.9 million, or 6.4%, over fiscal 2011. Net earnings were $401.0 million, representing a decrease of $55.2 million, or 12.1%, from fiscal 2011. Included in net earnings for fiscal 2012 and 2011 were net tax benefits of $6.2 million and $57.2 million, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters which were excluded from our non GAAP results. Non GAAP net earnings were $562.1 million, representing an increase of $15.9 million, or 2.9%, over fiscal 2011. Diluted earnings per share was $2.32, representing a decrease of $0.18, or 7.2%, from fiscal 2011. Included in diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2012 and 2011 were net tax benefits of $0.04 and $0.31 per share, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters which were excluded from our non GAAP results. Non GAAP diluted earnings per share was $3.25, representing an increase of $0.26, or 8.7%, over fiscal 2011. 23 Cash flows from operations were $800.3 million, representing an increase of $35.1 million, or 4.6%, over fiscal 2011. We closed out the year with a strong balance sheet at March 31, 2012, including $1.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents and investments and $2.0 billion in deferred revenue. We continue to invest in our technology leadership, including in the areas of cloud computing and SaaS. In addition to our ongoing product development efforts, we consummated multiple strategic acquisitions across both our ESM and MSM segments during fiscal 2012 for aggregate cash consideration of $474.0 million. In our ESM segment, we acquired Coradiant Inc., Aeroprise, Inc., StreamStep, Inc. and Numara Software Holdings, Inc., the latter of which we recently acquired in the fourth quarter and which expands our IT service management solution offerings to small and mid sized businesses. In our MSM segment, we completed the purchase of Neon Enterprise Software, LLCs IMS software portfolio and I/O Concepts Software Corporation. We also continue to enhance shareholder value by returning cash to shareholders through our stock repurchase program. During fiscal 2012, we repurchased approximately 19.2 million shares for a total value of $780.5 million. Our earnings are subject to volatility as a significant portion of our operating expenses is fixed in the short term and we plan a portion of our expense run rate based on our expectations of future revenue. In addition, a significant amount of our license transactions are completed during the final weeks and days of each quarter, and therefore, we generally do not know whether revenue has met our expectations until after the end of the quarter. If a shortfall in revenue were to occur in any given quarter, there would be an immediate, and possibly significant, impact to our overall earnings and, most likely, our stock price. Because our software solutions are designed for and marketed to companies looking to improve the management of their IT infrastructure and processes, demand for our products, and therefore our financial results, are dependent upon customers continuing to value such solutions and to invest in such technology. There are a number of trends that have historically influenced demand for IT management software, including, among others, business demands placed on IT, computing capacity within IT departments, complexity of IT systems and IT operational costs. Our financial results are also influenced by many economic and industry conditions, including, but not limited to, general economic and market conditions in the United States and other economies in which we market products, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, general levels of customer spending, IT budgets, the competitiveness of the IT management software and solutions industry, the adoption rate for Business Service Management and the stability of the mainframe market. Acquisitions We have consummated multiple acquisitions of businesses in recent years. Each of these acquisitions has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly, the financial results for these entities have been included in our consolidated financial results since the applicable acquisition dates. Fiscal 2012 Acquisitions During fiscal 2012, we completed the acquisitions of Numara Software Holdings, Inc., a provider of integrated IT service management solutions for mid sized and small companies, for total cash consideration of $305.9 million, and Coradiant Inc., a global provider of end to end performance management of web applications, for total cash consideration of $130.0 million. Additionally, we completed the acquisitions of Aeroprise, Inc., a provider of mobile IT service management solutions, Neon Enterprise Software, LLCs IMS software portfolio, StreamStep, Inc., a provider of application release process management solutions, and I/O Concepts Software Corporation, a provider of mainframe management and security solutions, for combined cash consideration of $38.1 million. Fiscal 2011 Acquisitions During fiscal 2011, we completed the acquisition of the software business of Neptuny S.r.l., a provider of continuous capacity optimization software, and the acquisition of GridApp Systems, Inc., a provider of comprehensive database provisioning, patching and administration software, for combined purchase consideration of $51.5 million. Fiscal 2010 Acquisitions During fiscal 2010, we completed the acquisitions of MQSoftware, Inc., a provider of middleware and enterprise application transaction management software, Tideway Systems Limited, a provider of IT discovery solutions, and Phurnace Software, Inc., a developer of software that automates the deployment and configuration of business critical Java EE applications, for combined purchase consideration of $94.3 million. 24 Historical Information Historical performance should not be viewed as indicative of future performance, as there can be no assurance that operating income or net earnings will be sustained at these levels. For a discussion of factors affecting operating results, see the Risk Factors section above. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the fiscal years indicated, the percentages that selected items in the accompanying consolidated statements of comprehensive income represent of total revenue. These financial results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Percentage of Total Revenuefor the Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 Revenue: License 40.4 % 41.8 % 39.6 % Maintenance 49.8 % 49.6 % 53.6 % Professional services 9.8 % 8.6 % 6.8 % Total revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Cost of license revenue 7.3 % 6.3 % 6.0 % Cost of maintenance revenue 9.1 % 8.2 % 8.3 % Cost of professional services revenue 9.8 % 9.0 % 7.2 % Selling and marketing expenses 29.2 % 29.6 % 29.2 % Research and development expenses 7.6 % 8.8 % 10.3 % General and administrative expenses 10.0 % 10.7 % 10.8 % Amortization of intangible assets 1.9 % 1.6 % 1.7 % Total operating expenses 75.0 % 74.2 % 73.5 % Operating income 25.0 % 25.8 % 26.5 % Other loss, net (0.6 )% (0.1 )% (0.1 )% Earnings before income taxes 24.4 % 25.7 % 26.4 % Provision for income taxes 5.9 % 3.6 % 5.1 % Net earnings 18.5 % 22.1 % 21.2 % 25 Revenue The following table provides information regarding software license and software maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared to Compared to Software License Revenue 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Enterprise Service Management $ 543.3 $ 550.9 $ 462.2 (1.4 )% 19.2 % Mainframe Service Management 334.5 313.6 296.2 6.7 % 5.9 % Total software license revenue $ 877.8 $ 864.5 $ 758.4 1.5 % 14.0 % Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared to Compared to Software Maintenance Revenue 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Enterprise Service Management $ 585.0 $ 551.5 $ 550.9 6.1 % 0.1 % Mainframe Service Management 495.4 472.7 472.8 4.8 % (0.0 )% Total software maintenance revenue $ 1,080.4 $ 1,024.2 $ 1,023.7 5.5 % 0.0 % Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared to Compared to Total Software Revenue 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Enterprise Service Management $ 1,128.3 $ 1,102.4 $ 1,013.1 2.3 % 8.8 % Mainframe Service Management 829.9 786.3 769.0 5.5 % 2.2 % Total software revenue $ 1,958.2 $ 1,888.7 $ 1,782.1 3.7 % 6.0 % Software License Revenue License revenue was $877.8 million, $864.5 million and $758.4 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. License revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $13.3 million, or 1.5%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable to a license revenue increase in our MSM segment, partially offset by a license revenue decrease in our ESM segment, as further discussed below. Recognition of license revenue in fiscal 2012 that was deferred in prior periods increased by $9.7 million over fiscal 2011. Of the license revenue transactions recorded, the percentage of license revenue recognized upfront increased to 54% for fiscal 2012 as compared to 51% in fiscal 2011. License revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $106.1 million, or 14.0%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to license revenue increases in both our ESM and MSM segments, as further discussed below. Recognition of license revenue in fiscal 2011 that was deferred in prior periods increased by $4.3 million over fiscal 2010. Of the license revenue transactions recorded, the percentage of license revenue recognized upfront increased to 51% for fiscal 2011 as compared to 48% in fiscal 2010. ESM license revenue was $543.3 million, or 61.9%, $550.9 million, or 63.7%, and $462.2 million, or 60.9%, of our total license revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. ESM license revenue in fiscal 2012 decreased by $7.6 million, or 1.4%, from fiscal 2011, due to a $13.4 million decrease in the recognition of previously deferred license revenue, partially offset by a $5.8 million increase in the amount of upfront license revenue recognized in connection with new transactions. ESM license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $88.7 million, or 19.2%, over fiscal 2010, primarily due to a $77.9 million increase in the amount of upfront license revenue recognized in connection with new transactions and a $10.8 million increase in the recognition of previously deferred license revenue. The increase in upfront license revenue recognized was attributable to an increase in ESM license transaction bookings, due primarily to increased demand for our BSM solutions and increased sales productivity, and a higher percentage of license transaction bookings that were recognized as upfront revenue rather than ratably over the underlying contractual maintenance terms. 26 MSM license revenue was $334.5 million, or 38.1%, $313.6 million, or 36.3%, and $296.2 million, or 39.1%, of our total license revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. MSM license revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $20.9 million, or 6.7%, over fiscal 2011, due to a $23.1 million increase in the recognition of previously deferred license revenue, partially offset by a $2.2 million decrease in the amount of upfront license revenue recognized in connection with new transactions. MSM license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $17.4 million, or 5.9%, over fiscal 2010, primarily due to a $23.9 million increase in the amount of upfront license revenue recognized in connection with new transactions, partially offset by a $6.5 million decrease in the recognition of previously deferred license revenue. The increase in upfront license revenue recognized in fiscal 2011 was attributable to an increase in license bookings and a higher percentage of license bookings that were recognized as upfront revenue rather than ratably over the underlying contractual maintenance terms. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, our recognized license revenue was impacted by the changes in our deferred license revenue balance as follows: Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Deferrals of license revenue $ 410.4 $ 454.1 $ 398.9 Recognition from deferred license revenue (404.5 ) (394.8 ) (390.5 ) Impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes (1.3 ) 2.6 4.9 Net increase in deferred license revenue $ 4.6 $ 61.9 $ 13.3 Deferred license revenue balance at end of period $ 690.7 $ 686.1 $ 624.2 The primary reasons for license revenue deferrals include, but are not limited to, customer transactions that include products for which the maintenance pricing is based on a combination of undiscounted license list prices, net license fees or discounted license list prices, certain arrangements that include unlimited licensing rights, time based licenses that are recognized over the term of the arrangement, customer transactions that include products with differing maintenance periods and other transactions for which we do not have or are not able to determine vendor specific objective evidence of the fair value of the maintenance and or professional services. The contract terms and conditions that result in deferral of revenue recognition for a given transaction result from arms length negotiations between us and our customers. We anticipate our transactions will continue to include such contract terms that result in deferral of the related license revenue as we expand our offerings to meet customers product, pricing and licensing needs. Once it is determined that license revenue for a particular contract must be deferred, based on the contractual terms and application of revenue recognition policies to those terms, we recognize such license revenue either ratably over the term of the contract or when the revenue recognition criteria are met. Because of this, we generally know the timing of the subsequent recognition of license revenue at the time of deferral. Therefore, the amount of license revenue to be recognized from the deferred revenue balance in each future quarter is generally predictable. At March 31, 2012, the deferred license revenue balance was $690.7 million. Estimated future recognition from deferred license revenue at March 31, 2012 is (in millions): Fiscal 2013 $ 328.0 Fiscal 2014 185.4 Fiscal 2015 and thereafter 177.3 $ 690.7 Software Maintenance Revenue Maintenance revenue was $1,080.4 million, $1,024.2 million and $1,023.7 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012 included $9.7 million of revenue from our SaaS offerings, which is included in our ESM segment. Maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $56.2 million, or 5.5% over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable to maintenance revenue increases in both our ESM and MSM segments, as further discussed below. 27 Maintenance revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $0.5 million, essentially flat as compared to fiscal 2010 for both ESM and MSM, as further discussed below. ESM maintenance revenue was $585.0 million, or 54.1%, $551.5 million, or 53.8%, and $550.9 million, or 53.8%, of our total maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. ESM maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $33.5 million, or 6.1%, over fiscal 2011. This year over year increase was attributable primarily to the expansion of our installed ESM customer license base and a $9.2 million increase in SaaS subscription revenue. ESM maintenance revenue remained relatively flat in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. MSM maintenance revenue was $495.4 million, or 45.9%, $472.7 million, or 46.2%, and $472.8 million, or 46.2%, of our total maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. MSM maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $22.7 million, or 4.8%, over fiscal 2011, due to the expansion of our installed MSM customer license base and increasing capacities of the current installed base. MSM maintenance revenue remained relatively flat in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. At March 31, 2012, the deferred maintenance revenue balance was $1,267.2 million. Estimated future recognition from deferred maintenance revenue at March 31, 2012 is (in millions): Fiscal 2013 $ 699.1 Fiscal 2014 313.2 Fiscal 2015 and thereafter 254.9 $ 1,267.2 Domestic vs. International Revenue Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared to Compared to 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) License: Domestic $ 412.5 $ 420.4 $ 390.3 (1.9 )% 7.7 % International 465.3 444.1 368.1 4.8 % 20.6 % Total license revenue 877.8 864.5 758.4 1.5 % 14.0 % Maintenance: Domestic 581.7 556.8 561.4 4.5 % (0.8 )% International 498.7 467.4 462.3 6.7 % 1.1 % Total maintenance revenue 1,080.4 1,024.2 1,023.7 5.5 % 0.0 % Professional services: Domestic 103.6 85.9 59.8 20.6 % 43.6 % International 110.2 90.7 69.3 21.5 % 30.9 % Total professional services revenue 213.8 176.6 129.1 21.1 % 36.8 % Total domestic revenue 1,097.8 1,063.1 1,011.5 3.3 % 5.1 % Total international revenue 1,074.2 1,002.2 899.7 7.2 % 11.4 % Total revenue $ 2,172.0 $ 2,065.3 $ 1,911.2 5.2 % 8.1 % We estimate that the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our international revenue resulted in an approximate $11 million increase in total fiscal 2012 revenue as compared to fiscal 2011 and an approximate $4 million increase in total fiscal 2011 revenue as compared to fiscal 2010, on a constant currency basis. Domestic License Revenue Domestic license revenue was $412.5 million, or 47.0%, $420.4 million, or 48.6%, and $390.3 million, or 51.5%, of our total license revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Domestic license revenue in fiscal 2012 decreased by $7.9 million, or 1.9%, from fiscal 2011, due to a $9.2 million decrease in ESM license revenue, partially offset by a $1.3 million increase in MSM license revenue. 28 Domestic license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $30.1 million, or 7.7%, over fiscal 2010, due to a $35.6 million increase in ESM license revenue, partially offset by a $5.5 million decrease in MSM license revenue. International License Revenue International license revenue was $465.3 million, or 53.0%, $444.1 million, or 51.4%, and $368.1 million, or 48.5%, of our total license revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. International license revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $21.2 million, or 4.8%, over fiscal 2011, due to a $1.6 million increase in ESM license revenue and a $19.6 million increase in MSM license revenue. The ESM license revenue increase was attributable to increases of $7.7 million, $7.2 million and $5.5 million in our Latin America, Asia Pacific and Canada markets, respectively, partially offset by an $18.8 million decrease in our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) market. The MSM license revenue increase was attributable to increases of $12.7 million, $11.6 million and $2.4 million in our EMEA, Latin America and Asia Pacific markets, respectively, partially offset by a $7.1 million decrease in our Canada market. International license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $76.0 million, or 20.6%, over fiscal 2010, due to a $53.1 million increase in ESM license revenue and a $22.9 million increase in MSM license revenue. The ESM license revenue increase was attributable to increases of $33.0 million and $12.3 million in our EMEA and Asia Pacific markets, respectively, and a combined $7.8 million net increase in our other international markets. The MSM license revenue increase was attributable to increases of $13.1 million and $9.8 million in our Canada and EMEA markets, respectively. Domestic Maintenance Revenue Domestic maintenance revenue was $581.7 million, or 53.8%, $556.8 million, or 54.4%, and $561.4 million, or 54.8%, of our total maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Domestic maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $24.9 million, or 4.5%, over fiscal 2011, due to a $19.0 million increase in ESM maintenance revenue and a $5.9 million increase in MSM maintenance revenue. Domestic maintenance revenue in fiscal 2011 decreased by $4.6 million, or 0.8%, from fiscal 2010, due to a $5.2 million decrease in ESM maintenance revenue, partially offset by a $0.6 million increase in MSM maintenance revenue. International Maintenance Revenue International maintenance revenue was $498.7 million, or 46.2%, $467.4 million, or 45.6%, and $462.3 million, or 45.2%, of our total maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. International maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $31.3 million, or 6.7%, over fiscal 2011, due to a $14.4 million increase in ESM maintenance revenue and a $16.9 million increase in MSM maintenance revenue. The ESM maintenance revenue increase was attributable primarily to increases of $6.5 million, $5.9 million and $1.3 million in our Asia Pacific, EMEA and Canada markets, respectively. The MSM maintenance revenue increase was attributable primarily to increases of $8.7 million, $6.6 million and $2.0 million in our Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific markets, respectively. International maintenance revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $5.1 million, or 1.1%, over fiscal 2010, due to a $5.8 million increase in ESM maintenance revenue, partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in MSM maintenance revenue. The ESM maintenance revenue increase was attributable primarily to increases of $4.4 million and $1.7 million in our Asia Pacific and Canada markets, respectively. The MSM maintenance revenue decrease was attributable to decreases of $5.3 million and $1.4 million in our EMEA and Latin America markets, respectively, partially offset by increases of $4.2 million and $1.8 million in our Asia Pacific and Canada markets, respectively. Professional Services Revenue Professional services revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $37.2 million, or 21.1%, over fiscal 2011, which is reflective of a $17.7 million, or 20.6%, increase in domestic professional services revenue and a $19.5 million, or 21.5%, increase in international professional services revenue. These increases were attributable primarily to increases in implementation, consulting and education services revenue period over period, including increased demand for cloud implementations. Professional services revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $47.5 million, or 36.8%, over fiscal 2010, which is reflective of a $26.1 million, or 43.6%, increase in domestic professional services revenue and a $21.4 million, or 30.9%, increase in international professional services revenue. These increases were attributable primarily to increases in implementation, consulting and education services revenue period over period, principally due to the expansion of our ESM business. 29 Operating Expenses Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared Compared 2012 2011 2010 to 2011 to 2010 (In millions) Cost of license revenue $ 158.4 $ 129.8 $ 115.5 22.0 % 12.4 % Cost of maintenance revenue 198.5 169.4 158.3 17.2 % 7.0 % Cost of professional services revenue 212.0 186.0 137.7 14.0 % 35.1 % Selling and marketing expenses 634.0 611.4 558.0 3.7 % 9.6 % Research and development expenses 165.2 181.6 195.9 (9.0 )% (7.3 )% General and administrative expenses 217.9 220.7 207.0 (1.3 )% 6.6 % Amortization of intangible assets 42.1 33.6 32.7 25.3 % 2.8 % Total operating expenses $ 1,628.1 $ 1,532.5 $ 1,405.1 6.2 % 9.1 % We estimate that the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our international operating expenses resulted in an approximate $14 million increase in fiscal 2012 operating expenses as compared to fiscal 2011 and an approximate $2 million reduction in fiscal 2011 operating expenses as compared to fiscal 2010, on a constant currency basis. Cost of License Revenue Cost of license revenue consists primarily of the amortization of capitalized software costs for internally developed products, the amortization of acquired technology for products acquired through business combinations, license based royalties to third parties and production and distribution costs for initial product licenses. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, cost of license revenue was $158.4 million, or 7.3%, $129.8 million, or 6.3%, and $115.5 million, or 6.0%, of total revenue, respectively, and 18.0%, 15.0% and 15.2% of license revenue, respectively. Cost of license revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $28.6 million, or 22.0%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable primarily to an $18.6 million increase in the amortization of capitalized software development costs and a $10.0 million increase in the amortization of acquired technology. The increase in the amortization of capitalized software development costs is related to increases in the amount of costs capitalized in prior periods related to development activities, and represents an increased investment in software development due to the growth of our business. Cost of license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $14.3 million, or 12.4%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable primarily to an $11.9 million increase in the amortization of capitalized software development costs and a $1.7 million increase in the amortization of acquired technology. The increase in the amortization of capitalized software development costs is related to increases in the amount of costs capitalized in prior periods related to development activities, and represents an increased investment in software development due to the growth of our business. Cost of Maintenance Revenue Cost of maintenance revenue consists primarily of the costs associated with customer support and research and development personnel that provide maintenance, enhancement and support services to our customers, as well as internal and third party infrastructure hosting and support costs associated with our SaaS offerings. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, cost of maintenance revenue was $198.5 million, or 9.1%, $169.4 million, or 8.2%, and $158.3 million, or 8.3%, of total revenue, respectively, and 18.4%, 16.5% and 15.5% of maintenance revenue, respectively. Cost of maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $29.1 million, or 17.2%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable to a $7.3 million increase in third party maintenance outsourcing costs, a $5.5 million increase in personnel costs, including third party subcontracting fees, a $5.4 million increase in share based compensation expense, a $4.3 million increase related to the early exit of a long term service contract, a $3.5 million increase in third party SaaS hosting and support costs and a $3.1 million net increase in other expenses. Cost of maintenance revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $11.1 million, or 7.0%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to a $6.2 million increase in personnel costs, including third party subcontracting fees, a $1.9 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $3.0 million net increase in other expenses. 30 Cost of Professional Services Revenue Cost of professional services revenue consists primarily of salaries, related personnel costs and third party subcontracting fees associated with implementation, consulting and education services that we provide to our customers and the related infrastructure to support this business. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, cost of professional services revenue was $212.0 million, or 9.8%, $186.0 million, or 9.0%, and $137.7 million, or 7.2%, of total revenue, respectively, and 99.2%, 105.3% and 106.7% of professional services revenue, respectively. Cost of professional services revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $26.0 million, or 14.0%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable primarily to a $19.7 million increase in personnel and related costs and a $5.7 million increase in third party subcontracting fees, commensurate with increases in professional services revenue. Cost of professional services revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $48.3 million, or 35.1%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to a $31.3 million increase in third party subcontracting fees, a $13.9 million increase in personnel and related costs, a $1.2 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $1.9 million net increase in other expenses, commensurate with increases in professional services revenue. Selling and Marketing Expenses Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, related personnel costs, sales commissions and costs associated with advertising, marketing, industry trade shows and sales seminars. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, selling and marketing expenses were $634.0 million, or 29.2%, $611.4 million, or 29.6%, and $558.0 million, or 29.2%, of total revenue, respectively. Selling and marketing expenses in fiscal 2012 increased by $22.6 million, or 3.7%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable to a $14.2 million increase in sales personnel and related costs, principally due to an increase in variable compensation expense attributable to increased revenue as well as an increase in sales personnel headcount, a $9.1 million increase in marketing campaign expenditures, a $4.6 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $1.5 million net increase in other expenses, partially offset by a $4.1 million decrease in third party consulting fees and a $2.7 million decrease in legal costs relating to a fiscal 2011 matter. Selling and marketing expenses in fiscal 2011 increased by $53.4 million, or 9.6%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to a $50.4 million increase in sales personnel and related costs, principally due to an increase in variable compensation expense attributable to increased revenue as well as an increase in sales personnel headcount, a $3.5 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $2.7 million increase in legal costs relating to a fiscal 2011 matter, partially offset by a $3.2 million net decrease in other expenses. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, related personnel costs and third party subcontracting fees related to software developers and development support personnel, including product management, software programmers, testing and quality assurance personnel and writers of technical documentation, such as product manuals and installation guides. These expenses also include computer hardware and software costs, telecommunications costs and personnel costs associated with our development and production labs. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, research and development expenses were $165.2 million, or 7.6%, $181.6 million, or 8.8%, and $195.9 million, or 10.3%, of total revenue, respectively. Research and development expenses in fiscal 2012 decreased by $16.4 million, or 9.0%, from fiscal 2011. This decrease reflects a $19.8 million increase in capitalized research and development costs related to software development projects, due to the scope and timing of several key future product releases, a $1.8 million decrease in equipment expense, a $1.7 million decrease in facilities expenses and a $3.1 million net decrease in other expenses, partially offset by a $7.2 million increase in personnel and related costs and a $2.8 million increase in share based compensation expense. Research and development expenses in fiscal 2011 decreased by $14.3 million, or 7.3%, from fiscal 2010. This decrease was attributable primarily to a $35.7 million increase in capitalized research and development costs resulting from additional internal investments made in new products, including the expansion of our BSM solution offerings, partially offset by a $22.0 million increase in research and development personnel costs. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and related personnel costs of executive management, finance and accounting, facilities management, legal and human resources. Other costs included in general and administrative expenses include fees paid for outside accounting and legal services, consulting projects and insurance. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, general and administrative expenses were $217.9 million, or 10.0%, $220.7 million, or 10.7%, and $207.0 million, or 10.8%, of total revenue, respectively. 31 General and administrative expenses in fiscal 2012 decreased by $2.8 million, or 1.3%, from fiscal 2011. This decrease was attributable to an $8.2 million decrease in personnel costs, principally due to a decrease in variable compensation expense, and a $3.5 million decrease in facilities expenses, partially offset by a $6.4 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $2.5 million net increase in other expenses. General and administrative expenses in fiscal 2011 increased by $13.7 million, or 6.6%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to a $9.7 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $7.1 million increase in personnel costs, principally due to an increase in variable compensation expense, partially offset by a $3.1 million net decrease in other expenses. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets consists of the amortization of customer relationships and other intangible assets recorded in connection with our business combinations. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, amortization of intangible assets was $42.1 million, $33.6 million and $32.7 million, respectively. Amortization of intangible assets in fiscal 2012 increased by $8.5 million, or 25.3%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable primarily to amortization associated with intangible assets acquired in connection with our fiscal 2011 and 2012 acquisitions. Amortization of intangible assets in fiscal 2011 increased by $0.9 million, or 2.8%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable primarily to amortization associated with intangible assets acquired in connection with our fiscal 2010 and 2011 acquisitions, partially offset by a reduction in amortization associated with intangible assets acquired in connection with past acquisitions that became fully amortized. Other Income (Loss), Net Other income (loss), net, consists primarily of interest earned, realized gains and losses on investments and interest expense on our senior unsecured notes due 2018 and 2022 and capital leases. Other income (loss), net, for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 consisted of losses of $13.9 million, $1.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively. The change in other income (loss), net for fiscal 2012 was attributable to a $4.5 million reduction in net gains on investments primarily due to market declines on our trading securities, a $4.4 million reduction in interest and other income primarily due to a reduction in interest on our financed accounts receivable and a $3.5 million increase in interest expense primarily due to the issuance of our senior unsecured notes due 2022. Other income (loss), net, for fiscal 2011 remained relatively flat as compared to fiscal 2010. Provision for Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $129.0 million, $75.1 million and $98.1 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 24.3%, 14.1% and 19.5%, respectively. Our effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to favorable tax rates associated with earnings from lower tax rate jurisdictions throughout the world and our policy of indefinitely reinvesting earnings from certain jurisdictions (primarily in Europe), as well as due to additional accruals, changes in estimates, releases and settlements with taxing authorities related to our uncertain tax positions and benefits associated with income attributable to both domestic production activities and the extraterritorial income exclusion. The overall favorable effects of foreign tax rates on our effective tax rate were 7.7%, 10.3% and 5.9% of pre tax earnings for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We also recorded discrete net tax benefits of $6.2 million, $57.2 million and $30.0 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters which favorably impacted our effective tax rate by 1.2%, 10.8% and 6.0% of pre tax earnings, respectively. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate on an annual basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory rates. 32 Non GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding our results as determined by GAAP, we disclose various non GAAP financial measures in our quarterly earnings press releases and other public disclosures. The primary non GAAP financial measures we focus on are: (i) non GAAP operating income, (ii) non GAAP net earnings, and (iii) non GAAP diluted earnings per share. Each of these financial measures excludes the impact of certain items and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with GAAP. These non GAAP financial measures exclude share based compensation expense; the amortization of intangible assets; severance, exit costs and related charges; as well as the related tax impacts of these items; and certain discrete tax items. Each of the non GAAP adjustments is described in more detail below. A reconciliation of each of these non GAAP financial measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure is also included below. We believe that these non GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results because they exclude amounts that BMC management and the Board of Directors do not consider part of core operating results when assessing the performance of the organization. In addition, we have historically reported similar non GAAP financial measures, and we believe that inclusion of these non GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with past reports of financial results. Accordingly, we believe these non GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management. While we believe that these non GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, there are limitations associated with the use of these non GAAP financial measures. These non GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. Items such as share based compensation expense; the amortization of intangible assets; severance, exit costs and related charges; as well as the related tax impacts of these items; and certain discrete tax items that are excluded from our non GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on net earnings. As a result, these non GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, net earnings, cash flow from operations or other measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by using these non GAAP financial measures as supplements to GAAP financial measures and by reconciling the non GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliations of these non GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures below. 33 For a detailed explanation of the adjustments made to comparable GAAP financial measures, the reasons why management uses these measures and the usefulness of these measures, see items (1) (5) below. Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Operating income: GAAP operating income $ 543.9 $ 532.8 $ 506.1 Share based compensation expense (1) 127.2 106.5 88.9 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 97.7 79.1 76.5 Severance, exit costs and related charges (3) 10.8 14.3 3.0 Non GAAP operating income $ 779.6 $ 732.7 $ 674.5 Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Net earnings: GAAP net earnings $ 401.0 $ 456.2 $ 406.1 Share based compensation expense (1) 127.2 106.5 88.9 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 97.7 79.1 76.5 Severance, exit costs and related charges (3) 10.8 14.3 3.0 Provision for income taxes on above pre tax non GAAP adjustments (4) (68.4 ) (52.7 ) (48.5 ) Certain discrete tax items (5) (6.2 ) (57.2 ) (30.0 ) Non GAAP net earnings $ 562.1 $ 546.2 $ 496.0 Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 Diluted earnings per share*: GAAP diluted earnings per share $ 2.32 $ 2.50 $ 2.17 Share based compensation expense (1) 0.74 0.58 0.48 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 0.57 0.43 0.41 Severance, exit costs and related charges (3) 0.06 0.08 0.02 Provision for income taxes on above pre tax non GAAP adjustments (4) (0.40 ) (0.29 ) (0.26 ) Certain discrete tax items (5) (0.04 ) (0.31 ) (0.16 ) Non GAAP diluted earnings per share* $ 3.25 $ 2.99 $ 2.66 * Non GAAP diluted earnings per share is computed independently for each period presented. The sum of GAAP diluted earnings per share and non GAAP adjustments per share may not equal non GAAP diluted earnings per share due to rounding differences. (1) Share based compensation expense. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude the compensation expenses required to be recorded by GAAP for equity awards to employees and directors. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating corporate performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non GAAP financial measures, excluding expenses related to share based compensation, because these costs are generally fixed at the time an award is granted, are then expensed over several years and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management once granted. (2) Amortization of intangible assets. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude costs associated with the amortization of intangible assets, which are included in cost of license revenue and amortization of intangible assets in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating corporate performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non GAAP financial measures, excluding amortization of intangible assets, because these costs are fixed at the time of an acquisition, are then amortized over a period of several years after the acquisition and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the acquisition. 34 (3) Severance, exit costs and related charges. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude severance, exit costs and related charges, and any subsequent changes in estimates, as they relate to our corporate restructuring and exit activities. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating corporate performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non GAAP financial measures, excluding severance, exit costs and related charges, in order to provide comparability and consistency with historical operating results. (4) Provision for income taxes on above pre tax non GAAP adjustments. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude the tax impact of the above pre tax non GAAP adjustments. This amount is calculated using the tax rates of each country to which these pre tax non GAAP adjustments relate. Management excludes the non GAAP adjustments on a net of tax basis in evaluating our performance. Therefore, we exclude the tax impact of these charges when presenting non GAAP financial measures. (5) Certain discrete tax items. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude net tax benefits of $6.2 million, $57.2 million and $30.0 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters. Management excludes the impact of these items in evaluating our performance. Therefore, we exclude these items when presenting non GAAP financial measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2012, we had $1.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents and investments, approximately 60% of which was held by our international subsidiaries and was largely generated from our international operations. Our international operations have generated $615.8 million of earnings that we have determined will be invested indefinitely in those operations. If such earnings were to be repatriated, we would incur a United States federal income tax liability that is not currently accrued in our financial statements. We also had outstanding letters of credit, performance bonds and similar instruments at March 31, 2012 of approximately $44.6 million primarily in support of performance obligations to various customers, but also related to facilities and other obligations. At March 31, 2012 and 2011, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $29.3 million and $29.8 million, respectively, which were classified as available for sale. The total estimated fair value of our auction rate securities was $26.9 million and $27.2 million at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our auction rate securities consist entirely of bonds issued by public agencies that are backed by student loans with at least a 97% guarantee by the federal government under the United States Department of Educations Federal Family Education Loan Program. All of these bonds are currently rated investment grade by Moodys or Standard and Poors. Auctions for these securities began failing in early 2008 and have continued to fail, resulting in our continuing to hold such securities and the issuers paying interest at the maximum contractual rates. We do not believe that any of the underlying issuers of these auction rate securities are presently at risk of default or that the underlying credit quality of the assets backing the auction rate security investments has been impacted by the reduced liquidity of these investments. Due to the illiquidity in the auction rate securities market caused by failed auctions, we estimated the fair value of these securities and the put option discussed below using internally developed models of the expected cash flows of the securities on a discounted basis. These models incorporate assumptions about the expected cash flows of the underlying student loans discounted at an estimate of the rate of return required by investors, which includes an adjustment to reflect a lack of liquidity in the market for these securities. Periodically, the issuers of certain of our auction rate securities have redeemed portions of our holdings at par value plus accrued interest. During fiscal 2012 and 2011, issuers redeemed available for sale holdings of $0.5 million par value and $20.9 million par value, respectively, and trading holdings of $5.4 million par value during fiscal 2011. On July 1, 2010, we exercised our right under a put agreement with a bank from which we acquired certain auction rate securities to put the remaining securities subject to this agreement, with $11.2 million par value, to the bank. In February 2012, we issued $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes due 2022. Net proceeds to us after original issuance discount and issuance costs amounted to $493.3 million. These senior notes were issued at an original issuance discount of $2.7 million. These senior notes bear interest at a rate of 4.25% per annum, payable semi annually in February and August of each year. These senior notes are redeemable at our option at any time in whole or, from time to time, in part at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of these senior notes to be redeemed, or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted at the applicable United States Treasury rate plus 35 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest. These senior notes are subject to the provisions of an indenture which includes covenants limiting, among other things, the creation of liens securing indebtedness and sale leaseback transactions. In November 2010, we entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders providing for an unsecured revolving credit facility in an amount up to $400.0 million which is scheduled to expire on November 30, 2014 (the Credit Facility). Subject to certain conditions, at any time prior to maturity, we may invite existing and new lenders to increase the size of the Credit Facility up to a maximum of $600.0 million. The Credit Facility includes provisions for swing line loans of up to $25.0 million and standby letters of credit of up to $50.0 million. Revolving loans under the Credit Facility bear interest, at the Companys option, at a rate equal to either (i) the base rate (as defined) plus a margin based on the credit ratings of BMCs senior notes, or (ii) the LIBOR rate (as defined) plus a margin based on the credit ratings of BMCs senior notes, for interest periods of one, two, three or six months. As of March 31, 2012 and through May 10, 2012, we have not borrowed any funds under the Credit Facility. 35 In June 2008, we issued $300.0 million of senior unsecured notes due 2018. Net proceeds to us after original issuance discount and issuance costs amounted to $295.6 million. These senior notes were issued at an original issuance discount of $1.8 million. These senior notes bear interest at a rate of 7.25% per annum, payable semi annually in June and December of each year. These senior notes are redeemable at our option at any time in whole or, from time to time, in part at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of these senior notes to be redeemed, or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted at the applicable United States Treasury rate plus 50 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest. These senior notes are subject to the provisions of an indenture which includes covenants limiting, among other things, the creation of liens securing indebtedness and sale leaseback transactions. We believe that our existing cash and investment balances, funds generated from operating activities and available credit under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our working and other capital requirements for the foreseeable future. In the normal course of business, we evaluate the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with or investing in these businesses. We may elect to use available cash and investments to fund such activities in the future. In the event additional needs for cash arise, we might find it advantageous to utilize third party financing sources based on factors such as our then available cash and its source (i.e., cash held in the United States versus international locations), the cost of financing and our internal cost of capital. We may from time to time seek to repurchase or retire securities, including outstanding borrowings and equity securities, in open market repurchases, unsolicited or solicited privately negotiated transactions or in such other manner as will comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the rules and regulations thereunder. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements and contractual restrictions, if applicable. The amount of repurchases, which is subject to management discretion, may be material and may change from period to period. Our cash flows during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 were: Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 800.3 $ 765.2 $ 635.4 Net cash used in investing activities (665.9 ) (147.6 ) (159.3 ) Net cash used in financing activities (282.0 ) (340.9 ) (158.7 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (16.4 ) 15.6 27.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (164.0 ) $ 292.3 $ 345.3 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2012 increased by $35.1 million over fiscal 2011, attributable primarily to the net impact of working capital changes, partially offset by a decrease in net earnings before non cash expenses (principally depreciation, amortization, share based compensation expense and deferred income tax provision). Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2011 increased by $129.8 million over fiscal 2010, attributable primarily to an increase in net earnings before non cash expenses (principally depreciation, amortization, share based compensation expense and deferred income tax provision) as well as the net impact of working capital changes. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2012 increased by $518.3 million over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable primarily to an increase in cash expended for acquisitions, a decrease in proceeds from the maturities and sales of investments, an increase in investment purchases and an increase in capitalization of software development costs. Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2011 decreased by $11.7 million from fiscal 2010. This decrease was attributable primarily to a decrease in investment purchases and in cash expended for acquisitions, offset by a decrease in proceeds from the maturities of investments and an increase in capitalization of software development costs. 36 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2012 decreased by $58.9 million from fiscal 2011. This decrease was attributable primarily to an increase in proceeds from borrowings, partially offset by an increase in treasury stock acquired and a decrease in proceeds from stock option exercises. Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2011 increased by $182.2 million over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable primarily to an increase in treasury stock acquired and a decrease in proceeds from borrowings, offset by an increase in proceeds from stock option exercises. Trade Finance Receivables We provide financing on a portion of our sales transactions to customers that meet our standards of creditworthiness. We believe our practice of providing financing at reasonable market interest rates enhances our competitive position. We participate in established programs with third party financial institutions and sell a significant portion of our finance receivables to such institutions on a non recourse basis, enabling us to collect cash on a timely basis while fully transferring credit risk of customer default to third party financial institutions. We record transfers of finance receivables to third party financial institutions as sales of such finance receivables when we have surrendered control of such receivables (including determining that such assets have been isolated beyond our reach and the reach of our creditors) and when we do not have significant continuing involvement in the generation of cash flows due the financial institutions. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, we transferred $227.9 million, $172.3 million and $208.8 million, respectively, of such receivables through these programs. Treasury Stock Purchases Our Board of Directors has authorized a total of $5.0 billion to repurchase common stock. During fiscal 2012, we repurchased 19.2 million shares for $780.5 million. From the inception of the stock repurchase authorization through March 31, 2012, we have purchased 152.0 million shares for $4.1 billion. At March 31, 2012, there was $850.2 million remaining in the stock repurchase program, which does not have an expiration date. In addition, during fiscal 2012, we repurchased 0.9 million shares for $38.2 million to satisfy employee tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of share based awards. The repurchase of stock will continue to be funded primarily with cash generated from domestic operations, and therefore, affects our overall domestic versus international liquidity balances. See Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities above for a monthly detail of treasury stock purchases for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. Contractual Obligations The following is a summary of our contractual obligations at March 31, 2012: Less Than1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5Years Total (In millions) Senior unsecured notes (1) $ 43.0 $ 86.0 $ 86.0 $ 938.9 $ 1,153.9 Capital lease obligations (1) 8.9 10.9 19.8 Operating lease obligations 41.9 53.1 13.9 7.3 116.2 Purchase obligations (2) 8.6 8.7 17.3 Other long term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet (1) 14.4 15.6 30.0 Total contractual obligations (3)(4) $ 116.8 $ 174.3 $ 99.9 $ 946.2 $ 1,337.2 (1) Represents contractual amounts due, including interest. (2) Represents obligations under agreements with non cancelable terms to purchase goods or services. The agreements are enforceable and legally binding, and contain specific terms, including quantities to be purchased and the timing of the purchase. (3) Total does not include contractual obligations recorded on the balance sheet as current liabilities, other than capital lease obligations and other long term liabilities above. (4) We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when cash settlement with taxing authorities will occur for our unrecognized tax benefits due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. Therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $90.5 million, including interest and penalties, is not included in the table above. 37 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. On an on going basis, we make and evaluate estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, capitalized software development costs, share based compensation, goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of investments and accounting for income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances; the results of which form the basis for making judgments about amounts and timing of revenue and expenses, the carrying values of assets and the recorded amounts of liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such estimates may change if the underlying conditions or assumptions change. We have discussed the development and selection of the critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the related disclosures below. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue principally from software related arrangements consisting of software license, maintenance and professional services offerings and non software arrangements consisting of our SaaS offerings. We commence revenue recognition when all of the following core revenue recognition criteria are satisfied: i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; ii) delivery of the license or service has occurred or is occurring; iii) the arrangement fee is fixed or determinable; and iv) collection of the arrangement fee is probable. Software License, Maintenance and Professional Services Arrangements Software license revenue is recognized when the core revenue recognition criteria above are satisfied and vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of the fair value of undelivered elements exists. As substantially all of our software licenses are sold in multiple element arrangements that include either maintenance or both maintenance and professional services, we use the residual method to determine the amount of license revenue to be recognized. Under the residual method, consideration is allocated to undelivered elements based upon VSOE of the fair value of those elements, with the residual of the arrangement fee allocated to and recognized as license revenue. We have established VSOE of the fair value of maintenance through independent maintenance renewals. These demonstrate a consistent relationship of pricing maintenance as a percentage of either the net license fee or the discounted or undiscounted license list price. VSOE of the fair value of professional services is established based on daily rates when sold on a stand alone basis, as well as management approved pricing for certain new offerings. We are unable to establish VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements in certain arrangements that include multiple software products for which the associated maintenance pricing is based on a combination of undiscounted license list prices, net license fees or discounted license list prices. We are also unable to establish VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements in certain arrangements that include unlimited licensing rights and certain arrangements that contain rights to future unspecified software products as part of the maintenance offering. If VSOE of fair value of one or more undelivered elements does not exist, license revenue is deferred and recognized upon delivery of those elements or when VSOE of fair value exists for all remaining undelivered elements, or if the deferral is due to the factors described above, license revenue is recognized ratably over the longest expected delivery period of undelivered elements in the arrangement, which is typically the longest maintenance term. In our time based license agreements, we are unable to establish VSOE of fair value for undelivered maintenance elements because the contractual maintenance terms in these arrangements are the same duration as the license terms, and VSOE of fair value of maintenance cannot be established. Accordingly, license fees in time based license arrangements are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangements. Maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the contractual terms of the maintenance arrangements, which primarily range from one to three years and in some instances can extend up to five or more years. Professional services revenue, which principally relates to implementation, integration and education services associated with our products, is derived under both time and material and fixed fee arrangements and in most instances is recognized on a proportional performance basis based on days of effort. If no discernable customer deliverable exists until the completion of the professional services, we apply the completed performance method and defer the recognition of professional services revenue until completion of the services, which is typically evidenced by a signed completion letter from the customer. Services that are sold in connection with software license arrangements generally qualify for separate accounting from the license elements because they do not involve significant production, modification or customization of our products and are not otherwise considered to be essential to the functionality of such products. In arrangements where the professional services do not qualify for separate accounting from the license elements, the combined software license and professional services revenue are recognized based on contract accounting using either the percentage of completion or completed contract method. 38 SaaS Arrangements SaaS subscription fees are recognized ratably over the contractual terms of the subscription arrangements beginning on the date that the service is made available to customers. Additional professional services fees, principally related to optional services engagements that are not essential to the functionality of our core SaaS offerings and are considered to have standalone value, are generally recognized on a proportional performance basis based on days of effort. In our consolidated financial statements, SaaS subscription revenue and optional professional services revenue are included in maintenance and professional services revenue, respectively. To date, SaaS and related professional services revenues have not represented a significant percentage of our total revenue in any period since our SaaS offerings were first introduced to the market in late fiscal 2010. Other Revenue Recognition Considerations In arrangements containing both software and non software (e.g., SaaS) elements, which to date have been infrequent, we allocate the arrangement consideration first into software and non software units of accounting based on a relative selling price hierarchy and then apply the applicable software and non software revenue recognition criteria to each unit of accounting. To date, we have determined the relative selling price of software and non software units of accounting based on managements best estimate of selling price as other means of determining relative selling price (e.g., VSOE or other third party evidence) have not been available with respect to all of the components in bundled software and non software arrangements. We also execute arrangements through resellers, distributors and systems integrators (collectively, channel partners) in which the channel partners act as the principals in the transactions with the end users of our products and services. In license arrangements with channel partners, title and risk of loss pass to the channel partners upon execution of our arrangements with them and the delivery of our products to the channel partner or the end user. We recognize revenue from transactions with channel partners on a net basis (the amount actually received by us from the channel partners) when all other revenue recognition criteria are satisfied. We do not offer right of return, product rotation or price protection to any of our channel partners. Revenue from financed customer transactions are generally recognized in the same manner as those requiring current payment, as we have a history of offering installment contracts to customers and successfully enforcing original payment terms without making concessions. In arrangements where the fees are not considered to be fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue when payments become due under the arrangement. If we determine that a transaction is not probable of collection or a risk of concession exists, we do not recognize revenue in excess of the amount of cash received. We are required to charge certain taxes on our revenue transactions. These amounts are not included in revenue. Instead, we record a liability when the amounts are collected and relieve the liability when payments are made to the applicable government agency. In our consolidated statements of comprehensive income, revenue is categorized as license, maintenance or professional services revenue. We allocate revenue from arrangements containing multiple elements to each of these categories based on the VSOE of fair value for elements in each revenue arrangement and the application of the residual method for arrangements in which we have established VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements. In arrangements where we are not able to establish VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements, we first allocate revenue to any undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has been established, then allocate revenue to any undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has not been established based upon managements best estimate of fair value of those undelivered elements and apply a residual method to determine the license fee. Managements best estimate of fair value of undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has not been established is based upon the VSOE of similar offerings and other objective criteria. Capitalized Software Development Costs Costs of internally developed software are expensed until the technological feasibility of the software product has been established. Thereafter, software development costs are capitalized until the product is generally available to customers in accordance with relevant accounting standards. Judgment is involved in determining the point at which technological feasibility is reached. If different judgments were made, they could result in a different amount of costs that are capitalized. Capitalized software development costs are then amortized using the greater of an amount determined by the ratio of current revenues recognized to the total anticipated revenues for a product or straight line over the products estimated economic life beginning at the date of general availability of the product to our customers. We evaluate our capitalized software development costs at each balance sheet date to determine if the unamortized balance related to any given product exceeds the estimated net realizable value of that product. Any such excess is written off through accelerated amortization in the quarter in which it is identified. Determining net realizable value requires that we make estimates and use judgment in quantifying the appropriate amount to write off, if any. Actual amounts realized from the sales of software products could differ from our estimates. Also, any future changes to our product portfolio could result in significant increases to our cost of license revenue as a result of the impairment of capitalized software development costs or acquired technology. 39 Share Based Compensation Share based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as compensation expense on a straight line basis over the requisite service period of the award, which is generally the vesting period. We estimate the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase plan awards using the Black Scholes option pricing model. We use the fair value of the Companys common stock at the date of grant as an estimate of fair value for time based nonvested stock units, and we utilize Monte Carlo simulation models to estimate the fair value of certain market based nonvested stock units. The fair values of share based awards determined on the date of grant using a fair value model are impacted by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These assumptions include our expected stock price volatility, the risk free interest rate over the expected term of the awards and expected stock price volatilities of the NASDAQ 100 Index used in our Monte Carlo simulation models. We estimate the volatility of our stock price using a combination of both historical volatility and implied volatility derived from market traded options for our stock, as we believe that the combined volatility is more representative of future stock price volatility than either historical or implied volatility alone. We estimate the risk free interest rate based on zero coupon yields implied from United States Treasury issues with maturities similar to the expected term of the awards. We estimate the expected term of options granted using the simplified method allowed by relevant accounting standards, due to changes in vesting terms and contractual lives of our current options compared to our historical grants. We have never paid cash dividends and do not currently intend to pay cash dividends, and therefore we assume an expected dividend yield of zero in the valuation models. We estimate potential forfeitures of share based awards at the time of grant and record compensation expense for those awards expected to vest. The estimate of forfeitures is reassessed over the requisite service period and, to the extent that actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from such estimates, compensation expense is adjusted through a cumulative catch up adjustment in the period of change and the remaining unrecognized share based compensation expense is recorded over the remaining requisite service period. We use historical data to estimate prevesting forfeitures and record share based compensation expense for those awards that are expected to vest. If we use different assumptions for estimating share based compensation expense in future periods or if actual forfeitures differ materially from our estimated forfeitures, the amount of such expense recorded in future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. We record deferred tax assets for share based awards that we believe will result in deductions on our income tax returns, based on the amount of share based compensation expense recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which we will receive a tax deduction. Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on our income tax returns are recorded in additional paid in capital. If the tax deduction is less than the deferred tax asset, such shortfalls reduce our pool of excess tax benefits. If the pool of excess tax benefits is reduced to zero, then subsequent shortfalls would increase our income tax expense. Goodwill and Intangible Assets When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price is typically allocated to acquired technology and other identifiable intangible assets, such as customer relationships. The excess of our cost over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The amounts allocated to acquired technology and other intangible assets represent our estimates of their fair values at the acquisition date. The fair values are primarily estimated using the expected present value of future cash flows method of applying the income approach, which requires us to project the related future revenue and expenses and apply an appropriate discount rate. We amortize the acquired technology and other intangible assets with finite lives over their estimated useful lives. All goodwill is assessed for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value has been reduced below carrying value. When conducting our annual goodwill impairment assessment, we initially perform a qualitative evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired in order to determine the need to perform the two step impairment test. If we determine by a qualitative evaluation that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, we conduct a quantitative assessment of impairment which requires us to estimate future cash flows. The estimates used in valuing all intangible assets and assessing useful lives are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Accordingly, actual results may differ from the projected results used to determine fair value and to estimate useful lives. Incorrect estimates of fair value and or useful lives could result in future impairment charges and those charges could be material to our results of operations. 40 Valuation of Investments Our investments consist of debt and equity securities. We classify our investments in equity securities that have readily determinable fair values and all debt securities as held to maturity, available for sale or trading at acquisition and reevaluate such classification at each subsequent balance sheet date. We do not have any investments classified as held to maturity at March 31, 2012 or 2011. Our available for sale and trading securities are recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized gains or losses on available for sale securities are recorded, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), unless an impairment is considered to be other than temporary. Other than temporary unrealized losses on available for sale securities are generally recorded in gain (loss) on investments, net, in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income unless certain criteria are met. In addition, unrealized gains and losses on trading securities and all realized gains and losses are recorded in gain (loss) on investments, net, in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. We account for our investments in non marketable equity securities where we do not have significant influence and that do not have a readily determinable fair value under the cost method of accounting. We regularly analyze our portfolio of available for sale and cost method investments for other than temporary declines in fair value. This analysis requires significant judgment as well as the use of estimates and assumptions. The primary factors considered when determining if a charge must be recorded because a decline in the fair value of an investment is other than temporary include whether: (i) the fair value of the investment is significantly below our cost basis; (ii) the financial condition of the issuer of the security has deteriorated; (iii) if a debt security, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the security; (iv) the decline in fair value has existed for an extended period of time; (v) if a debt security, such security has been downgraded by a rating agency; and (vi) whether we have the intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. We have investment policies which are designed to ensure that our assets are invested in capital preserving securities. However, from time to time, issuer specific and market specific events could warrant a write down for an other than temporary decline in fair value. At March 31, 2012, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $29.3 million and an estimated fair value of $26.9 million. Our auction rate securities consist entirely of bonds issued by public agencies that are backed by student loans with at least a 97% guarantee by the federal government under the United States Department of Educations Federal Family Education Loan Program. All of these bonds are currently rated investment grade by Moodys or Standard and Poors. Auctions for these securities began failing in early 2008 and have continued to fail, resulting in our continuing to hold such securities and the issuers paying interest at the maximum contractual rates. We do not believe that any of the underlying issuers of these auction rate securities are presently at risk of default or that the underlying credit quality of the assets backing the auction rate security investments has been impacted by the reduced liquidity of these investments. Due to the illiquidity in the auction rate securities market caused by failed auctions, we estimated the fair value of these securities using internally developed models of the expected cash flows of the securities. These models incorporate assumptions about the cash flows of the underlying student loans and estimates of the rate of return required by investors, which includes an adjustment to reflect a lack of liquidity in the market for these securities. As the vast majority of our investments are investment grade securities, we anticipate that any future impairment charges related to these investments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Investments in debt and equity securities with a fair value below our cost at March 31, 2012 are discussed in greater detail in Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Accounting for Income Taxes Income tax expense or benefit is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current years results and for deferred tax assets and liabilities related to the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities and the process of identifying items of revenue and expense that qualify for preferential tax treatment. We are subject to corporate income tax audits in multiple jurisdictions and our income tax expense includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that may result from the examination of our tax returns that have been filed in these jurisdictions. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters could be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net earnings in the period in which such determination is made. Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no United States taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Remittances of foreign earnings to the United States are planned based on projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of foreign and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount that will be distributed to the United States and provide United States federal taxes on these amounts. Material changes in our estimates could impact our effective tax rate. 41 In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We consider future market growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In December 2010 and in September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued updated guidance relating to the annual goodwill impairment test. This new guidance incorporates additional qualitative assessments at two discrete points in the goodwill impairment evaluation. First, entities are now permitted to perform an initial qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired in order to determine the need to perform the previously required two step impairment test. This new guidance was early adopted by us for our fiscal 2012 annual goodwill impairment test. Additionally, as part of step one of the two step impairment test, entities are required to perform a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired in situations where reporting units have a carrying value that is zero or negative. If the qualitative evaluation determines that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, step two of the goodwill impairment test is required to be performed to determine the amount of impairment, if any. This guidance was effective for us beginning with our fiscal 2012 goodwill impairment test. Neither set of guidance had a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In May 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance for fair value measurements, primarily clarifying existing guidance and adding new disclosure requirements for Level 3 fair value measurements. This guidance requires entities to disclose quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in Level 3 measurements, and to provide additional qualitative information regarding the valuation process in place for Level 3 measurements and the sensitivity of recurring Level 3 fair value measurements to changes in unobservable inputs used. This new guidance was effective for us beginning with our fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and did not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In October 2009, the FASB issued new revenue recognition guidance for arrangements that include both software and non software related deliverables. This guidance requires entities to allocate the overall consideration to each deliverable by using a best estimate of the selling price of individual deliverables in the arrangement in the absence of vendor specific objective evidence or other third party evidence of the selling price. Additionally, the guidance modifies the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across the separately identified deliverables by no longer permitting the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration. The new guidance was effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and did not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In December 2011, the FASB issued guidance requiring new disclosures regarding balance sheet offsetting. This guidance requires entities to disclose the gross amounts of certain recognized financial assets and liabilities, to reconcile these amounts to the net positions recognized in the balance sheet and to provide qualitative disclosures about the rights of offset relating to these financial assets and liabilities. This new disclosure guidance is effective for us beginning with our first quarter of fiscal 2014. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We are exposed to a variety of risks, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the impact of changes in interest rates on our investments and long term borrowings and changes in market prices of our debt and equity securities. In the normal course of business, we employ established policies and procedures to manage these risks including the use of derivative instruments. The hypothetical changes noted in the sections immediately below are based on sensitivity analyses performed at March 31, 2012. Actual results could differ materially. 42 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk We use derivatives to hedge those current net assets and liabilities that, when re measured in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, impact our consolidated statement of operations. Foreign currency forward contracts are utilized in these hedging programs. All foreign currency forward contracts entered into by us are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing exposure, not for speculation or trading purposes. Gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts would generally be offset by corresponding gains and losses on the net foreign currency assets and liabilities that they hedge, with the goal of minimizing the net gains or losses overall on the hedged exposures. When hedging balance sheet exposures, all gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income (loss) in the same period as when the gains and losses on re measurement of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities occur. All settlements of gains and losses related to foreign currency forward contracts are included in cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. If we did not hedge against foreign currency exchange rate movement, a hypothetical increase or decrease of 10% in exchange rates would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in earnings before taxes of approximately $14.4 million. This amount represents the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on exposures at March 31, 2012 related to balance sheet re measurement only and assumes that all currencies move in the same direction at the same time relative to the United States dollar. We do not currently hedge currency risk related to anticipated revenue or expenses denominated in foreign currencies. The notional amounts at contract exchange rates of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding were: Notional Amount March 31, 2012 2011 (In millions) Foreign Currency Forward Contracts (receive United States dollar/pay foreign currency) Euro $ 214.2 $ 158.5 Australian dollar 29.9 13.9 British pound 19.2 5.0 Chinese yuan renminbi 11.7 7.6 Brazilian real 8.7 5.6 Swedish krona 8.2 2.4 Swiss franc 6.8 1.5 Danish krone 3.9 3.0 Singapore dollar 3.8 0.6 New Zealand dollar 3.4 2.9 Mexican peso 3.2 South Korean won 2.6 4.6 Canadian dollar 4.2 Other 6.4 3.2 Total $ 322.0 $ 213.0 Foreign Currency Forward Contracts (pay United States dollar/receive foreign currency) Israeli shekel $ 158.2 $ 151.6 Mexican peso 9.3 Indian rupee 15.0 9.1 Other 4.8 2.2 Total $ 178.0 $ 172.2 Interest Rate Risk We adhere to a conservative investment policy, whereby our principal concern is the preservation of liquid funds. Cash, cash equivalents and investments were approximately $1.6 billion at March 31, 2012, which consisted of $1.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents and the remaining balance consisted primarily of different types of investment grade debt securities. Although our portfolio is subject to fluctuations in interest rates and market conditions, we classify most of our investments as available for sale, which provides that no gain or loss on any security would actually be recognized in earnings unless the instrument was sold or any loss in value was deemed to be other than temporary. Due to the current interest rate environment and the liquidity of our overall portfolio, any hypothetical decrease in annual interest rates would have an immaterial impact on earnings before taxes. 43 Market Risk The carrying value and fair value at March 31, 2012 of our senior unsecured notes due 2018 were $298.9 million and $368.4 million, respectively. The fair value was based upon market prices of these senior notes. If market interest rates increased by 100 basis points and assuming all other variables were held constant, we estimate the fair value of our senior unsecured notes due 2018 would decrease by approximately $17.9 million. The carrying value and fair value at March 31, 2012 of our senior unsecured notes due 2022 were $497.4 million and $506.6 million, respectively. The fair value was based upon market prices of these senior notes. If market interest rates increased by 100 basis points and assuming all other variables were held constant, we estimate the fair value of our senior unsecured notes due 2022 would decrease by approximately $38.5 million. At March 31, 2012, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $29.3 million and an estimated fair value of $26.9 million. For further information, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. We may incur additional temporary unrealized losses or other than temporary impairments in the future if current market conditions were to persist and we no longer had the intent and ability to retain the auction rate securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any recovery in fair value. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Research and Development Expenses. Seasonality We tend to experience a higher volume of transactions and associated revenue in the quarter ended December 31, which is our third fiscal quarter, and the quarter ended March 31, which is our fourth fiscal quarter, as a result of our customers spending patterns and our annual sales quota incentives. As a result of this seasonality for license transactions and timing of related payments, we tend to have greater operating cash flow in our fourth fiscal quarter. However, general economic conditions also have an impact on our business and financial results. Competition The enterprise management software business is highly competitive. Both our ESM and MSM businesses compete against a number of enterprises, including large vendors who compete with us at a strategic solution level and across multiple product lines as well as smaller, niche companies who compete against individual products of ours. Our largest competitors are International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), CA, Inc. (CA) and Hewlett Packard Company (HP). Although we believe we are uniquely positioned to offer integrated BSM solutions to customers, several of our major competitors also market BSM like solutions and we anticipate continued competition in the BSM marketplace. There are currently between 50 and 100 companies we consider to be directly competitive with one or more of our software solutions. Some of these companies have substantially larger operations than ours in the specific markets in which we compete. With the acquisition of Numara, we now more regularly compete with smaller sized competitors as well. In addition, the software industry is experiencing continued consolidation which may change both the number of and specific companies with which we compete. Customers Our solutions are used by some of the largest, most demanding IT organizations in the world including over 20,000 companies and over 95% of the Forbes Global 100. Our software products are generally used in a broad range of industries, businesses and applications. Our most significant customers include banks and financial service providers, government agencies and other service providers. Our remaining customer base includes manufacturers, telecommunication companies, educational institutions, retailers, distributors, hospitals and other industries, as well as channel partners including resellers, distributors and systems integrators. Our ten largest customers comprised 20% or less of our total revenue in each of fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. No single customer accounted for a material portion of our revenue during any of the past three fiscal years. Intellectual Property We primarily distribute our products in object code form and rely upon contract, trade secret, copyright and patent laws to protect our intellectual property. The license agreements under which customers use our products restrict the customers use to its own operations and prohibit disclosure to third parties. We distribute certain of our products on a shrink wrap basis and the enforceability of such restrictions in a shrink wrap license is unproven in certain jurisdictions. Also, notwithstanding these restrictions, it is possible for other persons to obtain copies of our products in object code form. We expect that obtaining such copies would have limited value without access to the products source code, which we keep highly confidential. In addition, for certain of our solutions, we employ protective measures such as CPU dependent passwords, expiring passwords and time based software trials. Employees At March 31, 2012, we had approximately 6,900 full time employees. We expect that our continued success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including technical, sales and management resources. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section describes some of the risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows; these are not necessarily listed in terms of their importance or level of risk. 8 Weakened economic conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our operating results. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions. As a result of continued sluggishness of major global economies, the United States and other key international regions continue to experience significant economic and financial market uncertainty, including concerns over sovereign debt levels, significant unemployment, volatility in commodity prices and levels of inflation. The severity or length of time these economic and financial market concerns may persist is unknown. During challenging and uncertain economic times as well as periods of financial market instability and tight credit markets, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. Contract negotiations may become more protracted or difficult if customers institute additional internal approvals for software purchases or require more negotiation of contract terms and conditions. These economic conditions could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable or delayed payments, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, deterioration of the global credit markets could adversely impact our ability to complete sales of our solutions and services, including maintenance and support renewals, or the value of our financial assets. Any of these events would likely harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may announce lower than expected revenue, bookings, earnings or operating cash flows. Our ability to accurately and consistently predict revenue, bookings, earnings and operating cash flows within narrow ranges is weakened by two principal factors: first, a significant portion of our transactions close during the final days of each quarter; this pattern is evident across product lines and among all sales channels; and second, even after contracts have been executed, extensive analysis is required before the timing of revenue recognition can be reliably determined; this timing reflects both the complexity of the revenue recognition rules applicable to software and the effect that the various license types and other terms and conditions can have when these rules are applied. Numerous other factors, some listed below, also have the potential to adversely affect our financial results: customers may defer or limit purchases as a result of reduced information technology budgets or reduced data processing capacity demand; customers may require additional levels of internal approval prior to finalizing software purchases or renewals, which could lengthen the sales cycle and delay bookings and the resultant cash flows; we may lose customers to our competitors or due to customer consolidation; we may be required to defer more license revenue than we anticipate if our mix of complex transactions or contracts with terms and conditions requiring deferral of license revenue is greater than we plan for; we may be unable to adapt our solutions to customers needs in a market space defined by constant technological change; we may be unable to satisfy increased customer demands for our technical support services which may adversely affect our relationships with our customers; the timing of orders and delivery of products to our customers and channel partners is uncertain; we may experience losses on investments, foreign currency exchange contracts or other losses from financial instruments we hold that are exposed to market losses; we may experience unexpected changes or significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; tax rates in jurisdictions in which we operate may change; we may experience higher than expected operating expenses; 9 weighted average shares outstanding may increase unexpectedly due to much higher than expected exercises of stock options or a sudden and significant increase in our stock price causing our fully diluted weighted average shares outstanding to increase, either of which could cause reported earnings per share to decline; we may be affected by the timing of large, multi product transactions or become dependent upon such transactions; our pricing and distribution terms and or those of our competitors may change; and our business may be adversely affected as a result of the threat of significant external events that increase global economic uncertainty. Investors should not rely on the results of prior periods as an indication of our future performance. Our operating expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. If we have a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, we will not be able to proportionally reduce our operating expenses for that quarter in response to such a shortfall. Therefore, any significant shortfall in revenue will likely have an immediate adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter and could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, our ability to maintain or expand our operating margins may be limited given economic and competitive conditions, and we therefore could be reliant upon our ability to continually identify and implement operational improvements in order to maintain or reduce expense levels. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or expand our current operating margins in the future. Our cloud offerings bring new business and operational risks. We have introduced multiple new products and technology initiatives to provide systems management solutions in the emerging area of cloud computing. We include in this category our SaaS offerings. Our SaaS offerings provide our customers with existing and new software management through a hosted service as opposed to traditional software deployments. There can be no assurance that SaaS revenue will be significant in the future despite our levels of investment. There is a risk that our SaaS offerings may reduce demand for licenses and maintenance of our traditional software products which could impact our revenue and or operating margins. There is also a risk that our internal development and customer support teams could find it difficult or costly to support both traditional software installed by customers and software delivered as a service. To the extent that our new SaaS offerings are defective or there are disruptions to our services, demand for our SaaS offerings could diminish and we could be subject to substantial liability. In addition, interruptions or delays in service from our third party service delivery hosts could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. If we or our third party service delivery hosts experience security breaches and unauthorized access is obtained to a customers data or our data, our services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our services and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. Our success in the emerging area of cloud computing depends on organizations and customers perceiving technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the increasing adoption of virtual infrastructure solutions for on premise data centers as well as for cloud computing and end user computing. Concerns about security, privacy, availability, data integrity, retention and ownership may negatively impact the rate of adoption of cloud computing. Cloud computing environments are complex and the deployment of our systems management solutions in the cloud may require additional professional services and implementation services for which we may not have the ability to provide at an appropriate margin. In the cloud, our products are dependent upon third party hardware, software and cloud hosting vendors, all of which must interoperate for end users to achieve their computing goals. Since the cloud computing market is in the early stages of development, we expect other companies to enter this market and to introduce their own initiatives that may compete with, or not be compatible with, our cloud solutions. Additionally, operating margins on our new initiatives may be lower than those we have achieved in our more mature product markets, and our new initiatives may not generate sufficient revenue to recoup our investments in them. If any of these events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have difficulty achieving our cash flow from operations goals. Our quarterly cash flow from operations is and has been volatile. If our cash generated from operations in some future period is materially less than the market expects, our stock price could decline. Factors that could adversely affect our cash flow from operations in the future include: lengthening sales cycles; a reduction in the size of transactions; the timing of transaction completion, billings and associated cash collections within a particular period; longer customer payment terms; an increase in late payments by customers; an increase in uncollectible accounts receivable; increased expenses; reduced net earnings; a significant shift from multi year committed contracts to short term contracts; a reduced ability to transfer finance receivables to third parties; an increase in contracts where internal costs such as sales commissions are paid upfront but payments from customers are collected over time; reduced renewal rates for maintenance; an increase in cash taxes; payments for legal actions, costs, fees or settlements; restructuring payments; the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates; and reduced yields on investments and cash equivalents. 10 Maintenance revenue could decline. Maintenance revenue is an important source of recurring revenue, and we invest significant resources to provide maintenance and support services to our customers. Maintenance fees generally increase as the licensed capacity increases; consequently, we generally receive higher absolute maintenance fees with new license and maintenance agreements and as existing customers license our products for additional processing capacity. Price competition on enterprise transactions can lead to increased discounting for higher levels of supplemental processing capacity; the maintenance fees on a per unit of capacity basis are typically reduced in enterprise license agreements. In addition, customers are generally entitled to reduced annual maintenance fees for entering into long term maintenance contracts. Declines in our license bookings, increases in the proportion of long term maintenance contracts and or increased discounting could lead to declines in our maintenance revenue growth rates. Should customers migrate from systems and applications which our products support, utilize alternatives to our products, including maintenance free solutions such as on demand, or become dissatisfied with our maintenance services, increased cancellations could lead to declines in our maintenance revenue. As maintenance revenue makes up a substantial portion of our total revenue, any decline in our maintenance revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our professional services business is growing but could impact our overall margins. Our professional services business has been growing as our overall bookings have grown and customers have contracted with us to provide implementation and other value adding services. There are a number of risks associated with our professional services business which could impact our ability to deliver high quality services and which could impact our overall profit margin. These include the availability and our ability to engage quality labor resources, both as employees and as third party contractors, incremental costs associated with third party contractors, the complexity of services engagements, contractual risks, pricing and bidding risks and potential cost overruns. If we are not able to effectively manage the growth of our professional services business, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our operating results, including our profit margin. Competition from large, powerful multi line and small, agile single line competitors could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. Some of our largest competitors, including IBM, CA and HP, have significant scale advantages. With scale comes a large installed base of customers in particular market niches, as well as the ability to develop and market software competitive with ours. Some of these competitors can also bundle hardware, software and services together, which is a disadvantage for us since we are not a hardware provider and have fewer services offerings. Competitive products are also offered by numerous independent software companies that specialize in specific aspects of the highly fragmented software industry. Some, like Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), Oracle Corporation (Oracle), and SAP AG (SAP) are the leading developers and vendors in their specialized markets. In addition, new companies enter the market on a frequent and regular basis, offering products that compete with some individual products offered by us. Market entrants utilizing alternative business models such as SaaS, cloud computing or open source software also compete against us. As the use of open source software becomes more widespread, certain open source technology could become competitive with our proprietary technology, which could cause sales of our products to decline or force us to reduce the fees we charge for our products. Other data center vendors may expand into systems management to complement their existing offerings. Additionally, many customers historically have developed their own products that compete with those offered by us. Competition from any of these sources can result in price reductions or displacement of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Industry consolidation could affect prices or demand for our products. The IT industry and the market for our systems management products are very competitive due to a variety of factors. As the enterprise systems software market matures, it is consolidating. This trend could create opportunities for larger companies, such as IBM, HP, Microsoft, Oracle and other large enterprise software and hardware companies, to increase their market share through the acquisition of companies that dominate certain lucrative market niches or that have loyal installed customer bases. In doing so, these competitors may be able to reduce prices on software that competes with our solutions, in part by leveraging their larger economies of scale. Consolidation also may permit competitors to offer a broader suite of products and more comprehensive bundled solutions, including hardware, software and services. We expect this trend towards consolidation to continue as companies attempt to maintain or extend their market and competitive positions in the rapidly changing software industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. This industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results due to lengthening of the customer evaluation process, increased pricing pressure and or loss of business to these larger competitors, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 11 Our products must remain compatible with ever changing operating and database environments. IBM, HP, Microsoft and Oracle are by far the largest suppliers of systems and database software and, in some cases, are the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems used by most of our customers. Historically, operating and database system developers have modified or introduced new operating systems, database systems, systems software and computer hardware. Such new products could incorporate features which perform functions currently performed by our products or could require substantial modification of our products to maintain compatibility with these companies hardware or software. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adapt our products and our business to changes introduced by hardware manufacturers and operating and database system software developers. Operating and database system software developers have in the past provided us with early access to versions of their software, before making such software generally available, to have input into the functionality and to ensure that we can adapt our software to exploit new functionality in these systems. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may result in higher research and development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and modification of our existing products and the development of new products. Failure to adapt our products in a timely manner to changes in operating and database systems, or any product quality and performance issues with the underlying databases or operating systems resulting in degradation of our products quality and performance, could influence customer decisions to forego the use of our products in favor of those with comparable functionality offered by competitors or within the operating system and database functionality itself which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Future product development is dependent upon access to and reliability of third party software products and open source software. Certain of our software products contain components developed and maintained by third party software vendors. We expect that we may have to incorporate software from third party vendors in our future products. We also incorporate open source software in certain of our software products. We may not be able to replace the functionality provided by the third party or open source software currently offered with our products if that software becomes obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products or is not adequately maintained or updated, or if our relationship with the third party vendor terminates. In addition, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of, and compliance with the licensing requirements of, open source software. Any significant interruption in the availability of these third party software products on commercially acceptable terms, defects in these products or our inability to comply with the licensing terms of either third party commercial software or open source software could delay development of future products or enhancement of future products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Future product development is dependent on adequate research and development resources. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to develop new products and enhancements to our existing products. This is particularly true as we further expand our BSM, cloud and SaaS offerings and capabilities. Maintaining adequate research and development resources to meet the demands of the market is essential. Failure to do so could present an advantage to our competitors. Furthermore, if we are unable to develop products internally due to certain constraints, such as high employee turnover, lack of management ability or a lack of other development resources, it may force us to expand into a certain market or strategy via an acquisition for which we could potentially pay too much or unsuccessfully integrate into our operations. Discovery of errors in our software could adversely affect our earnings. The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of our products after commencement of commercial delivery. If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of customer support, our operating margins could be harmed. Moreover, we could face possible claims and higher development costs if our software contains undetected errors or if we fail to meet our customers expectations. With our BSM strategy, these risks increase because we are combining already complex products to create solutions that are even more complicated than the aggregation of their product components. Significant technical challenges could also arise with our products because our customers purchase and deploy our products across a variety of computer platforms and integrate them with a number of third party software applications and databases. These combinations increase our risk further because in the event of a system wide failure, it may be difficult to determine which product is at fault; thus, we may be harmed by the failure of another suppliers products. As a result of the foregoing, we could experience loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; loss of customers; damage to our reputation; failure to achieve market acceptance; diversion of development resources; increased service and warranty costs; legal actions by customers against us which could, whether or not successful, increase costs and distract our management; and increased insurance costs. 12 We are subject to risks associated with our indirect distribution channels. A portion of our revenue is derived from the sale of our products and services through indirect distribution channels such as resellers, systems integrators and strategic partners. In addition, we maintain strategic agreements with hardware vendors permitting them to sell our software solutions as part of their hardware systems. Conducting business through indirect distribution channels presents a number of risks, including: our indirect channel partners typically can cease marketing our products and services with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty; we may not be able to replace existing or recruit additional indirect channel partners if we lose any of our existing ones; our existing indirect channel partners may not be able to effectively sell new products and services that we may introduce; we do not have direct control over the business practices, compliance programs and processes or risk management policies adopted by our indirect channel partners and they may engage in inappropriate practices without our knowledge which could result in penalties and or reputational damage to us; our indirect channel partners may not be able to deliver the same quality or standard of services that we do which may require us to engage with their customers at a direct cost to us to protect our product and services standards and reputation; our indirect channel partners may also offer competitive products and services through acquisition or internal development and as such, may not give priority to the marketing of our products and services as compared to our competitors products; we may face conflicts between the activities of our indirect channels and our direct sales and marketing activities; our indirect channel partners may experience financial difficulties that may impact their ability to market our products and may lead to delays, or even default, in their payment obligations to us; and we also depend on our indirect channel partners for accurate and timely reporting of our channel sales; any disruption, delay or under reporting by our indirect channel partners could have an adverse effect on our bookings, revenues and cash flows. Changes to our sales organization can be disruptive and may negatively impact our results of operations. From time to time, we make significant changes in the organizational structure and compensation plans of our sales organizations. To the extent that we experience turnover within our direct sales force or sales management, there is a risk that the productivity of our sales force would be negatively impacted which could lead to revenue declines. Turnover within our sales force can require significant severance expense and cause disruption in sales cycles leading to delay or loss of business. In addition, it can take time to implement new sales management plans and to effectively recruit and train new sales representatives. We review and modify our compensation plans for the sales organization periodically. As in most years, we have made changes for fiscal 2013 that are intended to align with our business objectives, including the recent introduction of new customer segmentation and sales models within our ESM segment. Changes to our sales compensation plans could make it difficult for us to attract and retain top sales talent. We are subject to risks related to business combinations. As part of our overall strategy, we have acquired or invested in, and likely will continue to acquire or invest in, complementary companies, products and technologies. Risks commonly encountered in such transactions include: we may not retain and integrate key technical, sales and managerial personnel; we may not assimilate the personnel, culture and operations of the combined companies, including back office functions and systems, such as accounting, human resources and others, into our own back office functions and systems; we may not be able to integrate the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; our ongoing business could be disrupted, including management being distracted from other objectives, opportunities and risks; 13 we may not maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful integration of acquired businesses; our policies, procedures and controls may not be applied to the acquired entity in a timely manner following the acquisition; relationships with the acquired entitys customers, partners or vendors might degrade, creating challenges for us to meet the objectives of the acquisition; our pre acquisition due diligence may fail to identify technology issues, such as problems with software code, architecture or functionality, intellectual property ownership issues, employment or management issues, customer or partner issues, errors or irregularities in the accounting or financial reporting of the target, unknown liabilities of the target, legal contingencies, compliance failures or other issues; revenue from acquired companies, products and technologies may not meet our expectations; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases; similarly, existing stockholders could be diluted and earnings per share may decrease if we were to issue a significant amount of equity securities as full or partial consideration in future acquisitions; and our chosen strategy leading to the acquisition may not be the appropriate strategy or our resources may be better utilized developing technology via internal product development. In order for us to maximize the return on our investments in acquired companies, the products of these entities must be integrated with our existing products and strategies. These integrations can be difficult and unpredictable, especially given the complexity of software and that acquired technology is typically developed independently and may not have been designed to integrate with our products. The difficulties are compounded when the products involved are well established because compatibility with the existing base of installed products must be preserved. Successful integration also requires coordination of different development and engineering teams. This too can be difficult and unpredictable because of possible cultural conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product integration efforts or that we will realize the expected benefits. Changes in tax law, changes in our effective tax rate or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and financial condition. We carry out our business operations through entities in the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions. As such, we are required to file corporate income tax returns that are subject to United States, state and foreign tax laws. The United States, state and foreign tax liabilities are determined, in part, by the amount of operating profit generated in these different taxing jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate, earnings and operating cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of operating profits generated in countries with higher statutory tax rates as well as by the positioning of our cash balances globally. Our effective tax rate is also impacted by the portion of our foreign earnings in jurisdictions having different corporate tax rates than the United States when we deem such earnings to be indefinitely reinvested in such jurisdictions. If we were to determine that these foreign earnings were not indefinitely reinvested, our effective tax rate, earnings and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. Similarly, if statutory tax rates or tax bases were to increase or if changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations were made that impact us directly, our effective tax rate, earnings and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. We are also required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets. This evaluation requires that our management assess the positive and negative evidence regarding sources of future taxable income. If managements assessment regarding the realizability of our deferred tax assets changes, we will be required to increase our valuation allowance, which will negatively impact our effective tax rate and earnings. We are also subject to routine corporate income tax audits in multiple jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that may result from the examination of our corporate tax returns that have been filed in these jurisdictions. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of these examinations could be materially different from the amounts included in the provision for income taxes and result in additional tax expense and operating cash outflows. 14 We must protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual procedures to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to misappropriate, copy or pirate certain portions of our products or to reverse engineer or obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. There can also be no assurance that our intellectual property rights would survive a legal challenge as to their validity or provide significant protection for us, and any such legal actions could become costly. In addition, the laws or practices of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position and revenue. Third parties may claim that our software products or services infringe on their intellectual property rights, exposing us to litigation that, regardless of merit, may be costly to defend. Our success and ability to compete are also dependent upon our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that our current or future products or services infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Any such claim, with or without merit, could have a significant effect on our business and financial results. Any future third party claim could be time consuming, divert managements attention from our business operations and result in substantial litigation costs, including any monetary damages and customer indemnification obligations, which may result from such claims. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief affecting our ability to license the products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property. As a result of such claims, we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties, develop alternative technology or redesign our products. We cannot be sure that such licenses would be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If a successful claim is made against us and we are unable to develop or license alternative technology, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to risks related to global operations. We are a global company that conducts sales, sales support, professional services, product development and support, marketing and product distribution services from numerous offices throughout the world. We are subject to a variety of risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including: difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including compliance with local labor and employment laws; non compliance with our professional conduct policy and code of ethics or other corporate policies; longer payment cycles; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; adverse tax consequences; adverse impact of inflation; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; impact from volatile or sluggish local economies or global macroeconomic conditions; loss of proprietary information, including intellectual property, due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; the need to localize our products; lack of appropriate local infrastructure to carry out operations; political unrest, war or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have employees and facilities; potential vulnerability to computer system, internet or other systemic attacks, such as denial of service, viruses or other malware which may be caused by criminals, terrorists or other sophisticated organizations; 15 compliance with a wide variety of complex laws, regulations and treaties including unexpected changes in (or new) legislative or regulatory requirements, early termination of contracts with government agencies, audits, investigations, sanctions or penalties; licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; and natural disaster, disease or other extraordinary events impacting business continuity. U.S. and international laws and regulations that apply to our global operations are complex and increase our cost of doing business. U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our international operations include the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and export control laws. International laws and regulations include local laws which also prohibit bribery, including commercial bribery (including the UK Bribery Act), and corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti competition regulations, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. We have adopted and implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with U.S. laws and the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in criminal or civil fines against us, our officers or our employees; restrictions on the conduct of our business; harm to our brand or reputation; and delays in potential acquisitions. Such violations could result in penalties and other restrictions that may, under certain circumstances, materially and adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. The unique risks of operating in a particular country may require us to adopt a different business approach or strategy in that particular country which could increase our cost of doing business or limit the type of business activities we can perform in such country. In addition, if we suffer a business disruption due to any of the risks listed above and do not have in place or are not able to implement adequate response plans, our ability to support customers and maintain normal business operations for a significant length of time could be hindered such that our competitive position could be significantly impacted. Furthermore, our financial condition could be adversely impacted if our costs to recover escalate due to such recovery occurring over a protracted period. We maintain a significant presence in India, Israel and other emerging market countries, conducting substantial software development and support, marketing operations, IT operations and certain financial operations in those locations. Accordingly, we are directly affected by economic, political, physical and electrical infrastructure and military conditions in these countries. Any major hostilities or the interruption or curtailment of trade between these countries and their present trading partners could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We maintain contingency and business continuity plans for all significant locations, and to date, various regional conflicts or other local economic or political issues have not caused any major adverse impact on our operations in these countries. Should we be unable to conduct operations in these regions in the future, and our contingency and business continuity plans are unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, as the software and technology labor market in these countries has developed at a rapid pace, with many multi national companies competing for talent, there is a risk that wage and attrition rates will rise faster than we have anticipated which could lead to operational issues. We face exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. We conduct significant transactions, including intercompany transactions, in currencies other than the United States dollar or the functional operating currency of the transactional entities, and our global subsidiaries maintain significant net assets that are denominated in currencies other than the functional operating currencies of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar can significantly affect our revenues and operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurement that is reflected in our earnings. While we maintain a hedging program to hedge certain transactional exposures in foreign currencies in an attempt to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risks, this program may not fully mitigate all such risk. We may also experience foreign currency exchange rate gains and losses where it is not cost effective to hedge foreign currencies in part or in full. Additionally, our efforts under this program may not be successful if we were to fail to properly detect or manage foreign currency exchange rate exposures, which could also adversely impact our operating results and operating cash flows. We may lose key personnel, may not be able to hire enough qualified personnel or may fail to integrate replacement personnel. Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including sales, technical and management resources and the availability of skilled contract labor. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. Changing demographics and labor work force trends may result in a loss of knowledge and skills as experienced workers retire. Effective succession planning is also important to our long term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. In addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or our personnel. With rare exceptions, we do not have long term employment agreements with our employees. Further, certain of our key personnel receive a total compensation package that includes equity awards. New regulations, volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish our use, and or the value, of our equity awards, putting us at a competitive disadvantage or forcing us to use more cash compensation. 16 In addition, we continually focus on improving our cost structure. We have been hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs and we frequently utilize contract labor for short term needs. When we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. We may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues which may affect our employee retention efforts, increase our dependence on contract labor and or increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program for full time employees. We have also undertaken restructuring actions over the past several years to improve our cost structure involving significant reductions in our workforce, relocation of job functions to overseas locations and changes to our organizational structure. We will continue to make organizational changes aimed at improving our operating margins and driving operating efficiencies. Some of these changes may result in future workforce reductions or rebalancing actions. These efforts place a strain on our management, administrative, technical, operational and financial infrastructure. If we fail to manage these changes effectively, it could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and our operating results. Our business and products are dependent on the availability, integrity and security of IT systems. Our IT systems and related software applications are integral to our business. We rely on controls and systems to ensure data integrity of critical business information. Lack of data integrity could create inaccuracies and hinder our ability to perform meaningful business analysis and make informed business decisions. Computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate, copy or pirate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause interruptions or shutdowns of our internal systems and services. A number of websites have been subject to denial of service attacks, where a website is bombarded with information requests eventually causing the website to overload, resulting in a delay or disruption of service. Also, there is a growing trend of advanced persistent threats being launched by organized and coordinated groups against corporate networks to breach security for malicious purposes. If successful, any of these events could damage our computer systems or those of our customers and could disrupt or prevent us from providing timely maintenance and support for our products. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers and may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution and other critical functions. In the course of our regular business operations and providing maintenance support services to our customers, we process and transmit proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of employees, customers and others. Breaches in security could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in potential regulatory actions, litigation and potential liability for us, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers and damage to our brand and reputation. Despite network security, disaster recovery and systems management measures in place, we may encounter unexpected general systems outages or failures that may affect our ability to conduct research and development, provide maintenance and support of our products, manage our contractual arrangements, accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record our transactions, provide critical information to our management and prepare our financial statements. Additionally, these unexpected systems outages or failures may require additional personnel and financial resources, disrupt our business or cause delays in the reporting of our financial results. We may also be required to modify, enhance, upgrade or implement new systems, procedures and controls to reflect changes in our business or technological advancements, which could cause us to incur additional costs and require additional management attention, placing burdens on our internal resources. We also outsource certain IT related functions to third parties that are responsible for maintaining their own network security, disaster recovery and systems management procedures. If we, or our third party IT vendors, fail to manage our IT systems and related software applications effectively, it could adversely affect our business operations, operating results and cash flows. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 ITEM 2. Properties Our headquarters are located in Houston, Texas, where we lease approximately 570,000 square feet of office space. We also maintain software development and sales organizations in various locations around the world where we lease the necessary facilities. A summary of our principal leased properties currently in use is as follows: Location ApproximateArea (sq. ft.) Lease Expiration Houston, Texas 570,000 June 30, 2021 Pune, India 162,000 September 30, 2014 Austin, Texas 106,000 December 31, 2013 San Jose, California 62,000 May 31, 2019 Tel Aviv, Israel 51,000 July 10, 2012 Egham, United Kingdom 47,000 April 26, 2019 Tampa, Florida 37,000 April 30, 2013 Lexington, Massachusetts 32,000 February 28, 2013 Tel Hai, Israel 30,000 October 31, 2014 McLean, Virginia 28,000 November 30, 2013 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business. We do not believe that the outcome of any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 4. (Removed and Reserved) 18 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market and trades under the symbol BMC. On May 4, 2012, there were 585 holders of record of our common stock. The following table sets forth the high and low intra day sales prices per share of our common stock for the periods indicated: Price Range ofCommon Stock High Low FISCAL 2012 Fourth Quarter $ 40.38 $ 31.62 Third Quarter $ 41.05 $ 32.19 Second Quarter $ 56.55 $ 37.19 First Quarter $ 56.16 $ 48.46 FISCAL 2011 Fourth Quarter $ 51.03 $ 46.31 Third Quarter $ 49.11 $ 38.95 Second Quarter $ 41.51 $ 34.24 First Quarter $ 41.27 $ 34.58 We have never declared or paid dividends to BMC Software stockholders. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings otherwise available for cash dividends on our common stock for use in our operations, for acquisitions and for common stock repurchases. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. The graph below shows the relative investment performance of our common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Systems Software Index for the last five years, assuming reinvestment of dividends at date of payment into the common stock of the indices. The following graph is presented pursuant to SEC rules and is not meant to be an indication of our future performance. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among BMC Software, Inc., the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Systems Software Index * $100 invested on March 31, 2007 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. 19 ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Period Total Number ofSharesPurchased (1) Average PricePaid perShare Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part of aPublicly AnnouncedProgram (2) Total Dollar Valueof Shares Purchasedas Part of aPublicly AnnouncedProgram (2) Approximate DollarValue of Shares thatmay yet bePurchased Underthe Program (2) January 1 31, 2012 1,097,320 $ 33.15 1,085,700 $ 35,995,017 $ 964,273,805 February 1 29, 2012 1,553,257 $ 38.39 1,399,600 53,728,804 $ 910,545,001 March 1 31, 2012 1,585,572 $ 38.20 1,579,428 60,327,344 $ 850,217,657 Quarterly Total 4,236,149 $ 36.92 4,064,728 $ 150,051,165 $ 850,217,657 Fiscal 2012 Total 20,053,491 $ 40.67 19,190,854 $ 780,503,446 $ 850,217,657 (1) Includes 171,421 and 862,637 shares of our common stock withheld by us to satisfy employee tax withholding obligations during the quarter and year ended March 31, 2012, respectively. (2) Our Board of Directors has authorized a total of $5.0 billion to repurchase common stock. At March 31, 2012, approximately $850.2 million remains authorized in this stock repurchase program and the program does not have an expiration date. Information regarding our equity compensation plans at March 31, 2012 is incorporated by reference into Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 20 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data presented for, and at the end of, each of the years in the five year period ended March 31, 2012, are derived from our consolidated financial statements. The following business combinations during the five year period ended March 31, 2012 were accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting, and accordingly, the financial results of these acquired businesses have been included in our financial results below from the indicated acquisition dates: Numara Software Holdings, Inc. in February 2012; I/O Concepts Software Corporation in December 2011; StreamStep, Inc. in September 2011; Neon Enterprise Software, LLCs portfolio of IMS solution software in June 2011; Aeroprise, Inc. in June 2011; Coradiant Inc. in April 2011; GridApp Systems, Inc. in November 2010; the software business of Neptuny S.r.l. in October 2010; Phurnace Software, Inc. in December 2009; Tideway Systems Limited in October 2009; MQSoftware, Inc. in August 2009; BladeLogic, Inc. (BladeLogic) in April 2008; Emprisa Networks, Inc. in October 2007; RealOps, Inc. in July 2007 and ProactiveNet, Inc. in June 2007. The operating results for fiscal 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 below include severance, exit costs and related charges of $10.8 million, $14.3 million, $3.0 million, $33.5 million and $14.7 million, respectively. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded net tax benefits of approximately $6.2 million, $57.2 million and $30.0 million, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters. During fiscal 2009, we wrote off acquired in process research and development (IPR&D) of $50.3 million in connection with our acquisition of BladeLogic, and we recorded $6.8 million of tax expense associated with an intercompany transfer of the IPR&D. The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements at March 31, 2012 and 2011, and for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2012, the accompanying notes and the report of the independent registered public accounting firm thereon, which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 21 Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, except per share data) Statement of Operations Data: Total revenue $ 2,172.0 $ 2,065.3 $ 1,911.2 $ 1,871.9 $ 1,731.6 Operating income $ 543.9 $ 532.8 $ 506.1 $ 367.8 $ 357.5 Net earnings $ 401.0 $ 456.2 $ 406.1 $ 238.1 $ 313.6 Basic earnings per share $ 2.36 $ 2.55 $ 2.21 $ 1.27 $ 1.59 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.32 $ 2.50 $ 2.17 $ 1.25 $ 1.56 Shares used in computing basic earnings per share 169.9 178.7 183.1 187.1 194.8 Shares used in computing diluted earnings per share 172.8 182.4 186.8 190.2 199.6 At March 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,496.9 $ 1,660.9 $ 1,368.6 $ 1,023.3 $ 1,288.3 Investments 138.7 95.6 127.9 145.9 186.9 Working capital 767.3 877.1 561.2 239.4 532.7 Total assets 4,864.4 4,485.4 4,137.6 3,697.5 3,345.5 Long term borrowings 821.6 335.6 340.9 313.6 9.2 Deferred revenue 1,993.9 1,955.5 1,823.1 1,787.9 1,779.4 Stockholders equity 1,445.8 1,662.9 1,387.7 1,048.5 994.5 22 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations It is important that this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto which appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following discussion contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Unless indicated otherwise, results of operations data in this MD&A are presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Additionally, in an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding our results of operations, certain non GAAP financial measures including non GAAP operating income, non GAAP net earnings and non GAAP diluted earnings per share are provided in this MD&A. See Non GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations below for an explanation of our use of non GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to their corresponding measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Overview Our fiscal 2012 financial performance was solid across most of our core financial metrics. However, year over year ESM license bookings declined and were below our original expectations; refer to the additional discussion regarding ESM license bookings below. Select operating metrics for fiscal 2012 include: Total bookings, which represent the contract value of transactions closed and recorded, were $2,196.8 million, essentially flat as compared to fiscal 2011. During fiscal 2012, one large transaction generated total bookings of over $100 million, principally related to our MSM business. Total license bookings were $882.4 million, representing a decrease of $44.0 million, or 4.7%, from fiscal 2011. During fiscal 2012, we closed 158 transactions with license values over $1 million (with total license bookings of $480.0 million) compared with 162 transactions with license values over $1 million (with total license bookings of $498.1 million) in fiscal 2011. Within our ESM segment, where we evaluate performance on the basis of license bookings, total license bookings decreased by $64.7 million, or 11.3%, from fiscal 2011. We attribute this decrease principally to sales related factors, including a decline in productive sales capacity caused by sales force attrition as well as a decrease in productivity associated with a reduction in average sales force tenure and experience levels. ESM license bookings in the current year have also been adversely impacted by challenging economic and financial conditions in key geographic areas and market segments, particularly within certain European regions and the U.S. public sector. Within our MSM segment, where we evaluate performance based on total and annualized bookings, total bookings for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2012 increased by $51.9 million, or 6.2%, and on an annualized basis, after normalizing for contract length, decreased by $27.0 million, or 9.3%, as compared to the prior year period. Over the trailing 36 months ended March 31, 2012, total MSM bookings increased by $156.7 million, or 6.5%, and annualized bookings, after normalizing for contract length, were essentially flat as compared to the prior year period. Total revenue was $2,172.0 million, representing an increase of $106.7 million, or 5.2%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was reflective of license, maintenance and professional services revenue increases of $13.3 million, or 1.5%, $56.2 million, or 5.5%, and $37.2 million, or 21.1%, respectively. On a segment basis, total ESM revenue increased by $63.1 million, or 4.9%, and total MSM revenue increased by $43.6 million, or 5.5%, over fiscal 2011. Operating income was $543.9 million, representing an increase of $11.1 million, or 2.1%, over fiscal 2011. Non GAAP operating income was $779.6 million, representing an increase of $46.9 million, or 6.4%, over fiscal 2011. Net earnings were $401.0 million, representing a decrease of $55.2 million, or 12.1%, from fiscal 2011. Included in net earnings for fiscal 2012 and 2011 were net tax benefits of $6.2 million and $57.2 million, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters which were excluded from our non GAAP results. Non GAAP net earnings were $562.1 million, representing an increase of $15.9 million, or 2.9%, over fiscal 2011. Diluted earnings per share was $2.32, representing a decrease of $0.18, or 7.2%, from fiscal 2011. Included in diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2012 and 2011 were net tax benefits of $0.04 and $0.31 per share, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters which were excluded from our non GAAP results. Non GAAP diluted earnings per share was $3.25, representing an increase of $0.26, or 8.7%, over fiscal 2011. 23 Cash flows from operations were $800.3 million, representing an increase of $35.1 million, or 4.6%, over fiscal 2011. We closed out the year with a strong balance sheet at March 31, 2012, including $1.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents and investments and $2.0 billion in deferred revenue. We continue to invest in our technology leadership, including in the areas of cloud computing and SaaS. In addition to our ongoing product development efforts, we consummated multiple strategic acquisitions across both our ESM and MSM segments during fiscal 2012 for aggregate cash consideration of $474.0 million. In our ESM segment, we acquired Coradiant Inc., Aeroprise, Inc., StreamStep, Inc. and Numara Software Holdings, Inc., the latter of which we recently acquired in the fourth quarter and which expands our IT service management solution offerings to small and mid sized businesses. In our MSM segment, we completed the purchase of Neon Enterprise Software, LLCs IMS software portfolio and I/O Concepts Software Corporation. We also continue to enhance shareholder value by returning cash to shareholders through our stock repurchase program. During fiscal 2012, we repurchased approximately 19.2 million shares for a total value of $780.5 million. Our earnings are subject to volatility as a significant portion of our operating expenses is fixed in the short term and we plan a portion of our expense run rate based on our expectations of future revenue. In addition, a significant amount of our license transactions are completed during the final weeks and days of each quarter, and therefore, we generally do not know whether revenue has met our expectations until after the end of the quarter. If a shortfall in revenue were to occur in any given quarter, there would be an immediate, and possibly significant, impact to our overall earnings and, most likely, our stock price. Because our software solutions are designed for and marketed to companies looking to improve the management of their IT infrastructure and processes, demand for our products, and therefore our financial results, are dependent upon customers continuing to value such solutions and to invest in such technology. There are a number of trends that have historically influenced demand for IT management software, including, among others, business demands placed on IT, computing capacity within IT departments, complexity of IT systems and IT operational costs. Our financial results are also influenced by many economic and industry conditions, including, but not limited to, general economic and market conditions in the United States and other economies in which we market products, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, general levels of customer spending, IT budgets, the competitiveness of the IT management software and solutions industry, the adoption rate for Business Service Management and the stability of the mainframe market. Acquisitions We have consummated multiple acquisitions of businesses in recent years. Each of these acquisitions has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly, the financial results for these entities have been included in our consolidated financial results since the applicable acquisition dates. Fiscal 2012 Acquisitions During fiscal 2012, we completed the acquisitions of Numara Software Holdings, Inc., a provider of integrated IT service management solutions for mid sized and small companies, for total cash consideration of $305.9 million, and Coradiant Inc., a global provider of end to end performance management of web applications, for total cash consideration of $130.0 million. Additionally, we completed the acquisitions of Aeroprise, Inc., a provider of mobile IT service management solutions, Neon Enterprise Software, LLCs IMS software portfolio, StreamStep, Inc., a provider of application release process management solutions, and I/O Concepts Software Corporation, a provider of mainframe management and security solutions, for combined cash consideration of $38.1 million. Fiscal 2011 Acquisitions During fiscal 2011, we completed the acquisition of the software business of Neptuny S.r.l., a provider of continuous capacity optimization software, and the acquisition of GridApp Systems, Inc., a provider of comprehensive database provisioning, patching and administration software, for combined purchase consideration of $51.5 million. Fiscal 2010 Acquisitions During fiscal 2010, we completed the acquisitions of MQSoftware, Inc., a provider of middleware and enterprise application transaction management software, Tideway Systems Limited, a provider of IT discovery solutions, and Phurnace Software, Inc., a developer of software that automates the deployment and configuration of business critical Java EE applications, for combined purchase consideration of $94.3 million. 24 Historical Information Historical performance should not be viewed as indicative of future performance, as there can be no assurance that operating income or net earnings will be sustained at these levels. For a discussion of factors affecting operating results, see the Risk Factors section above. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the fiscal years indicated, the percentages that selected items in the accompanying consolidated statements of comprehensive income represent of total revenue. These financial results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Percentage of Total Revenuefor the Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 Revenue: License 40.4 % 41.8 % 39.6 % Maintenance 49.8 % 49.6 % 53.6 % Professional services 9.8 % 8.6 % 6.8 % Total revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Cost of license revenue 7.3 % 6.3 % 6.0 % Cost of maintenance revenue 9.1 % 8.2 % 8.3 % Cost of professional services revenue 9.8 % 9.0 % 7.2 % Selling and marketing expenses 29.2 % 29.6 % 29.2 % Research and development expenses 7.6 % 8.8 % 10.3 % General and administrative expenses 10.0 % 10.7 % 10.8 % Amortization of intangible assets 1.9 % 1.6 % 1.7 % Total operating expenses 75.0 % 74.2 % 73.5 % Operating income 25.0 % 25.8 % 26.5 % Other loss, net (0.6 )% (0.1 )% (0.1 )% Earnings before income taxes 24.4 % 25.7 % 26.4 % Provision for income taxes 5.9 % 3.6 % 5.1 % Net earnings 18.5 % 22.1 % 21.2 % 25 Revenue The following table provides information regarding software license and software maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared to Compared to Software License Revenue 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Enterprise Service Management $ 543.3 $ 550.9 $ 462.2 (1.4 )% 19.2 % Mainframe Service Management 334.5 313.6 296.2 6.7 % 5.9 % Total software license revenue $ 877.8 $ 864.5 $ 758.4 1.5 % 14.0 % Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared to Compared to Software Maintenance Revenue 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Enterprise Service Management $ 585.0 $ 551.5 $ 550.9 6.1 % 0.1 % Mainframe Service Management 495.4 472.7 472.8 4.8 % (0.0 )% Total software maintenance revenue $ 1,080.4 $ 1,024.2 $ 1,023.7 5.5 % 0.0 % Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared to Compared to Total Software Revenue 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Enterprise Service Management $ 1,128.3 $ 1,102.4 $ 1,013.1 2.3 % 8.8 % Mainframe Service Management 829.9 786.3 769.0 5.5 % 2.2 % Total software revenue $ 1,958.2 $ 1,888.7 $ 1,782.1 3.7 % 6.0 % Software License Revenue License revenue was $877.8 million, $864.5 million and $758.4 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. License revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $13.3 million, or 1.5%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable to a license revenue increase in our MSM segment, partially offset by a license revenue decrease in our ESM segment, as further discussed below. Recognition of license revenue in fiscal 2012 that was deferred in prior periods increased by $9.7 million over fiscal 2011. Of the license revenue transactions recorded, the percentage of license revenue recognized upfront increased to 54% for fiscal 2012 as compared to 51% in fiscal 2011. License revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $106.1 million, or 14.0%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to license revenue increases in both our ESM and MSM segments, as further discussed below. Recognition of license revenue in fiscal 2011 that was deferred in prior periods increased by $4.3 million over fiscal 2010. Of the license revenue transactions recorded, the percentage of license revenue recognized upfront increased to 51% for fiscal 2011 as compared to 48% in fiscal 2010. ESM license revenue was $543.3 million, or 61.9%, $550.9 million, or 63.7%, and $462.2 million, or 60.9%, of our total license revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. ESM license revenue in fiscal 2012 decreased by $7.6 million, or 1.4%, from fiscal 2011, due to a $13.4 million decrease in the recognition of previously deferred license revenue, partially offset by a $5.8 million increase in the amount of upfront license revenue recognized in connection with new transactions. ESM license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $88.7 million, or 19.2%, over fiscal 2010, primarily due to a $77.9 million increase in the amount of upfront license revenue recognized in connection with new transactions and a $10.8 million increase in the recognition of previously deferred license revenue. The increase in upfront license revenue recognized was attributable to an increase in ESM license transaction bookings, due primarily to increased demand for our BSM solutions and increased sales productivity, and a higher percentage of license transaction bookings that were recognized as upfront revenue rather than ratably over the underlying contractual maintenance terms. 26 MSM license revenue was $334.5 million, or 38.1%, $313.6 million, or 36.3%, and $296.2 million, or 39.1%, of our total license revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. MSM license revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $20.9 million, or 6.7%, over fiscal 2011, due to a $23.1 million increase in the recognition of previously deferred license revenue, partially offset by a $2.2 million decrease in the amount of upfront license revenue recognized in connection with new transactions. MSM license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $17.4 million, or 5.9%, over fiscal 2010, primarily due to a $23.9 million increase in the amount of upfront license revenue recognized in connection with new transactions, partially offset by a $6.5 million decrease in the recognition of previously deferred license revenue. The increase in upfront license revenue recognized in fiscal 2011 was attributable to an increase in license bookings and a higher percentage of license bookings that were recognized as upfront revenue rather than ratably over the underlying contractual maintenance terms. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, our recognized license revenue was impacted by the changes in our deferred license revenue balance as follows: Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Deferrals of license revenue $ 410.4 $ 454.1 $ 398.9 Recognition from deferred license revenue (404.5 ) (394.8 ) (390.5 ) Impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes (1.3 ) 2.6 4.9 Net increase in deferred license revenue $ 4.6 $ 61.9 $ 13.3 Deferred license revenue balance at end of period $ 690.7 $ 686.1 $ 624.2 The primary reasons for license revenue deferrals include, but are not limited to, customer transactions that include products for which the maintenance pricing is based on a combination of undiscounted license list prices, net license fees or discounted license list prices, certain arrangements that include unlimited licensing rights, time based licenses that are recognized over the term of the arrangement, customer transactions that include products with differing maintenance periods and other transactions for which we do not have or are not able to determine vendor specific objective evidence of the fair value of the maintenance and or professional services. The contract terms and conditions that result in deferral of revenue recognition for a given transaction result from arms length negotiations between us and our customers. We anticipate our transactions will continue to include such contract terms that result in deferral of the related license revenue as we expand our offerings to meet customers product, pricing and licensing needs. Once it is determined that license revenue for a particular contract must be deferred, based on the contractual terms and application of revenue recognition policies to those terms, we recognize such license revenue either ratably over the term of the contract or when the revenue recognition criteria are met. Because of this, we generally know the timing of the subsequent recognition of license revenue at the time of deferral. Therefore, the amount of license revenue to be recognized from the deferred revenue balance in each future quarter is generally predictable. At March 31, 2012, the deferred license revenue balance was $690.7 million. Estimated future recognition from deferred license revenue at March 31, 2012 is (in millions): Fiscal 2013 $ 328.0 Fiscal 2014 185.4 Fiscal 2015 and thereafter 177.3 $ 690.7 Software Maintenance Revenue Maintenance revenue was $1,080.4 million, $1,024.2 million and $1,023.7 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012 included $9.7 million of revenue from our SaaS offerings, which is included in our ESM segment. Maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $56.2 million, or 5.5% over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable to maintenance revenue increases in both our ESM and MSM segments, as further discussed below. 27 Maintenance revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $0.5 million, essentially flat as compared to fiscal 2010 for both ESM and MSM, as further discussed below. ESM maintenance revenue was $585.0 million, or 54.1%, $551.5 million, or 53.8%, and $550.9 million, or 53.8%, of our total maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. ESM maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $33.5 million, or 6.1%, over fiscal 2011. This year over year increase was attributable primarily to the expansion of our installed ESM customer license base and a $9.2 million increase in SaaS subscription revenue. ESM maintenance revenue remained relatively flat in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. MSM maintenance revenue was $495.4 million, or 45.9%, $472.7 million, or 46.2%, and $472.8 million, or 46.2%, of our total maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. MSM maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $22.7 million, or 4.8%, over fiscal 2011, due to the expansion of our installed MSM customer license base and increasing capacities of the current installed base. MSM maintenance revenue remained relatively flat in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. At March 31, 2012, the deferred maintenance revenue balance was $1,267.2 million. Estimated future recognition from deferred maintenance revenue at March 31, 2012 is (in millions): Fiscal 2013 $ 699.1 Fiscal 2014 313.2 Fiscal 2015 and thereafter 254.9 $ 1,267.2 Domestic vs. International Revenue Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared to Compared to 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) License: Domestic $ 412.5 $ 420.4 $ 390.3 (1.9 )% 7.7 % International 465.3 444.1 368.1 4.8 % 20.6 % Total license revenue 877.8 864.5 758.4 1.5 % 14.0 % Maintenance: Domestic 581.7 556.8 561.4 4.5 % (0.8 )% International 498.7 467.4 462.3 6.7 % 1.1 % Total maintenance revenue 1,080.4 1,024.2 1,023.7 5.5 % 0.0 % Professional services: Domestic 103.6 85.9 59.8 20.6 % 43.6 % International 110.2 90.7 69.3 21.5 % 30.9 % Total professional services revenue 213.8 176.6 129.1 21.1 % 36.8 % Total domestic revenue 1,097.8 1,063.1 1,011.5 3.3 % 5.1 % Total international revenue 1,074.2 1,002.2 899.7 7.2 % 11.4 % Total revenue $ 2,172.0 $ 2,065.3 $ 1,911.2 5.2 % 8.1 % We estimate that the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our international revenue resulted in an approximate $11 million increase in total fiscal 2012 revenue as compared to fiscal 2011 and an approximate $4 million increase in total fiscal 2011 revenue as compared to fiscal 2010, on a constant currency basis. Domestic License Revenue Domestic license revenue was $412.5 million, or 47.0%, $420.4 million, or 48.6%, and $390.3 million, or 51.5%, of our total license revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Domestic license revenue in fiscal 2012 decreased by $7.9 million, or 1.9%, from fiscal 2011, due to a $9.2 million decrease in ESM license revenue, partially offset by a $1.3 million increase in MSM license revenue. 28 Domestic license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $30.1 million, or 7.7%, over fiscal 2010, due to a $35.6 million increase in ESM license revenue, partially offset by a $5.5 million decrease in MSM license revenue. International License Revenue International license revenue was $465.3 million, or 53.0%, $444.1 million, or 51.4%, and $368.1 million, or 48.5%, of our total license revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. International license revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $21.2 million, or 4.8%, over fiscal 2011, due to a $1.6 million increase in ESM license revenue and a $19.6 million increase in MSM license revenue. The ESM license revenue increase was attributable to increases of $7.7 million, $7.2 million and $5.5 million in our Latin America, Asia Pacific and Canada markets, respectively, partially offset by an $18.8 million decrease in our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) market. The MSM license revenue increase was attributable to increases of $12.7 million, $11.6 million and $2.4 million in our EMEA, Latin America and Asia Pacific markets, respectively, partially offset by a $7.1 million decrease in our Canada market. International license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $76.0 million, or 20.6%, over fiscal 2010, due to a $53.1 million increase in ESM license revenue and a $22.9 million increase in MSM license revenue. The ESM license revenue increase was attributable to increases of $33.0 million and $12.3 million in our EMEA and Asia Pacific markets, respectively, and a combined $7.8 million net increase in our other international markets. The MSM license revenue increase was attributable to increases of $13.1 million and $9.8 million in our Canada and EMEA markets, respectively. Domestic Maintenance Revenue Domestic maintenance revenue was $581.7 million, or 53.8%, $556.8 million, or 54.4%, and $561.4 million, or 54.8%, of our total maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Domestic maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $24.9 million, or 4.5%, over fiscal 2011, due to a $19.0 million increase in ESM maintenance revenue and a $5.9 million increase in MSM maintenance revenue. Domestic maintenance revenue in fiscal 2011 decreased by $4.6 million, or 0.8%, from fiscal 2010, due to a $5.2 million decrease in ESM maintenance revenue, partially offset by a $0.6 million increase in MSM maintenance revenue. International Maintenance Revenue International maintenance revenue was $498.7 million, or 46.2%, $467.4 million, or 45.6%, and $462.3 million, or 45.2%, of our total maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. International maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $31.3 million, or 6.7%, over fiscal 2011, due to a $14.4 million increase in ESM maintenance revenue and a $16.9 million increase in MSM maintenance revenue. The ESM maintenance revenue increase was attributable primarily to increases of $6.5 million, $5.9 million and $1.3 million in our Asia Pacific, EMEA and Canada markets, respectively. The MSM maintenance revenue increase was attributable primarily to increases of $8.7 million, $6.6 million and $2.0 million in our Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific markets, respectively. International maintenance revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $5.1 million, or 1.1%, over fiscal 2010, due to a $5.8 million increase in ESM maintenance revenue, partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in MSM maintenance revenue. The ESM maintenance revenue increase was attributable primarily to increases of $4.4 million and $1.7 million in our Asia Pacific and Canada markets, respectively. The MSM maintenance revenue decrease was attributable to decreases of $5.3 million and $1.4 million in our EMEA and Latin America markets, respectively, partially offset by increases of $4.2 million and $1.8 million in our Asia Pacific and Canada markets, respectively. Professional Services Revenue Professional services revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $37.2 million, or 21.1%, over fiscal 2011, which is reflective of a $17.7 million, or 20.6%, increase in domestic professional services revenue and a $19.5 million, or 21.5%, increase in international professional services revenue. These increases were attributable primarily to increases in implementation, consulting and education services revenue period over period, including increased demand for cloud implementations. Professional services revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $47.5 million, or 36.8%, over fiscal 2010, which is reflective of a $26.1 million, or 43.6%, increase in domestic professional services revenue and a $21.4 million, or 30.9%, increase in international professional services revenue. These increases were attributable primarily to increases in implementation, consulting and education services revenue period over period, principally due to the expansion of our ESM business. 29 Operating Expenses Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared Compared 2012 2011 2010 to 2011 to 2010 (In millions) Cost of license revenue $ 158.4 $ 129.8 $ 115.5 22.0 % 12.4 % Cost of maintenance revenue 198.5 169.4 158.3 17.2 % 7.0 % Cost of professional services revenue 212.0 186.0 137.7 14.0 % 35.1 % Selling and marketing expenses 634.0 611.4 558.0 3.7 % 9.6 % Research and development expenses 165.2 181.6 195.9 (9.0 )% (7.3 )% General and administrative expenses 217.9 220.7 207.0 (1.3 )% 6.6 % Amortization of intangible assets 42.1 33.6 32.7 25.3 % 2.8 % Total operating expenses $ 1,628.1 $ 1,532.5 $ 1,405.1 6.2 % 9.1 % We estimate that the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our international operating expenses resulted in an approximate $14 million increase in fiscal 2012 operating expenses as compared to fiscal 2011 and an approximate $2 million reduction in fiscal 2011 operating expenses as compared to fiscal 2010, on a constant currency basis. Cost of License Revenue Cost of license revenue consists primarily of the amortization of capitalized software costs for internally developed products, the amortization of acquired technology for products acquired through business combinations, license based royalties to third parties and production and distribution costs for initial product licenses. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, cost of license revenue was $158.4 million, or 7.3%, $129.8 million, or 6.3%, and $115.5 million, or 6.0%, of total revenue, respectively, and 18.0%, 15.0% and 15.2% of license revenue, respectively. Cost of license revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $28.6 million, or 22.0%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable primarily to an $18.6 million increase in the amortization of capitalized software development costs and a $10.0 million increase in the amortization of acquired technology. The increase in the amortization of capitalized software development costs is related to increases in the amount of costs capitalized in prior periods related to development activities, and represents an increased investment in software development due to the growth of our business. Cost of license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $14.3 million, or 12.4%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable primarily to an $11.9 million increase in the amortization of capitalized software development costs and a $1.7 million increase in the amortization of acquired technology. The increase in the amortization of capitalized software development costs is related to increases in the amount of costs capitalized in prior periods related to development activities, and represents an increased investment in software development due to the growth of our business. Cost of Maintenance Revenue Cost of maintenance revenue consists primarily of the costs associated with customer support and research and development personnel that provide maintenance, enhancement and support services to our customers, as well as internal and third party infrastructure hosting and support costs associated with our SaaS offerings. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, cost of maintenance revenue was $198.5 million, or 9.1%, $169.4 million, or 8.2%, and $158.3 million, or 8.3%, of total revenue, respectively, and 18.4%, 16.5% and 15.5% of maintenance revenue, respectively. Cost of maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $29.1 million, or 17.2%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable to a $7.3 million increase in third party maintenance outsourcing costs, a $5.5 million increase in personnel costs, including third party subcontracting fees, a $5.4 million increase in share based compensation expense, a $4.3 million increase related to the early exit of a long term service contract, a $3.5 million increase in third party SaaS hosting and support costs and a $3.1 million net increase in other expenses. Cost of maintenance revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $11.1 million, or 7.0%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to a $6.2 million increase in personnel costs, including third party subcontracting fees, a $1.9 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $3.0 million net increase in other expenses. 30 Cost of Professional Services Revenue Cost of professional services revenue consists primarily of salaries, related personnel costs and third party subcontracting fees associated with implementation, consulting and education services that we provide to our customers and the related infrastructure to support this business. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, cost of professional services revenue was $212.0 million, or 9.8%, $186.0 million, or 9.0%, and $137.7 million, or 7.2%, of total revenue, respectively, and 99.2%, 105.3% and 106.7% of professional services revenue, respectively. Cost of professional services revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $26.0 million, or 14.0%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable primarily to a $19.7 million increase in personnel and related costs and a $5.7 million increase in third party subcontracting fees, commensurate with increases in professional services revenue. Cost of professional services revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $48.3 million, or 35.1%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to a $31.3 million increase in third party subcontracting fees, a $13.9 million increase in personnel and related costs, a $1.2 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $1.9 million net increase in other expenses, commensurate with increases in professional services revenue. Selling and Marketing Expenses Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, related personnel costs, sales commissions and costs associated with advertising, marketing, industry trade shows and sales seminars. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, selling and marketing expenses were $634.0 million, or 29.2%, $611.4 million, or 29.6%, and $558.0 million, or 29.2%, of total revenue, respectively. Selling and marketing expenses in fiscal 2012 increased by $22.6 million, or 3.7%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable to a $14.2 million increase in sales personnel and related costs, principally due to an increase in variable compensation expense attributable to increased revenue as well as an increase in sales personnel headcount, a $9.1 million increase in marketing campaign expenditures, a $4.6 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $1.5 million net increase in other expenses, partially offset by a $4.1 million decrease in third party consulting fees and a $2.7 million decrease in legal costs relating to a fiscal 2011 matter. Selling and marketing expenses in fiscal 2011 increased by $53.4 million, or 9.6%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to a $50.4 million increase in sales personnel and related costs, principally due to an increase in variable compensation expense attributable to increased revenue as well as an increase in sales personnel headcount, a $3.5 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $2.7 million increase in legal costs relating to a fiscal 2011 matter, partially offset by a $3.2 million net decrease in other expenses. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, related personnel costs and third party subcontracting fees related to software developers and development support personnel, including product management, software programmers, testing and quality assurance personnel and writers of technical documentation, such as product manuals and installation guides. These expenses also include computer hardware and software costs, telecommunications costs and personnel costs associated with our development and production labs. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, research and development expenses were $165.2 million, or 7.6%, $181.6 million, or 8.8%, and $195.9 million, or 10.3%, of total revenue, respectively. Research and development expenses in fiscal 2012 decreased by $16.4 million, or 9.0%, from fiscal 2011. This decrease reflects a $19.8 million increase in capitalized research and development costs related to software development projects, due to the scope and timing of several key future product releases, a $1.8 million decrease in equipment expense, a $1.7 million decrease in facilities expenses and a $3.1 million net decrease in other expenses, partially offset by a $7.2 million increase in personnel and related costs and a $2.8 million increase in share based compensation expense. Research and development expenses in fiscal 2011 decreased by $14.3 million, or 7.3%, from fiscal 2010. This decrease was attributable primarily to a $35.7 million increase in capitalized research and development costs resulting from additional internal investments made in new products, including the expansion of our BSM solution offerings, partially offset by a $22.0 million increase in research and development personnel costs. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and related personnel costs of executive management, finance and accounting, facilities management, legal and human resources. Other costs included in general and administrative expenses include fees paid for outside accounting and legal services, consulting projects and insurance. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, general and administrative expenses were $217.9 million, or 10.0%, $220.7 million, or 10.7%, and $207.0 million, or 10.8%, of total revenue, respectively. 31 General and administrative expenses in fiscal 2012 decreased by $2.8 million, or 1.3%, from fiscal 2011. This decrease was attributable to an $8.2 million decrease in personnel costs, principally due to a decrease in variable compensation expense, and a $3.5 million decrease in facilities expenses, partially offset by a $6.4 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $2.5 million net increase in other expenses. General and administrative expenses in fiscal 2011 increased by $13.7 million, or 6.6%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to a $9.7 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $7.1 million increase in personnel costs, principally due to an increase in variable compensation expense, partially offset by a $3.1 million net decrease in other expenses. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets consists of the amortization of customer relationships and other intangible assets recorded in connection with our business combinations. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, amortization of intangible assets was $42.1 million, $33.6 million and $32.7 million, respectively. Amortization of intangible assets in fiscal 2012 increased by $8.5 million, or 25.3%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable primarily to amortization associated with intangible assets acquired in connection with our fiscal 2011 and 2012 acquisitions. Amortization of intangible assets in fiscal 2011 increased by $0.9 million, or 2.8%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable primarily to amortization associated with intangible assets acquired in connection with our fiscal 2010 and 2011 acquisitions, partially offset by a reduction in amortization associated with intangible assets acquired in connection with past acquisitions that became fully amortized. Other Income (Loss), Net Other income (loss), net, consists primarily of interest earned, realized gains and losses on investments and interest expense on our senior unsecured notes due 2018 and 2022 and capital leases. Other income (loss), net, for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 consisted of losses of $13.9 million, $1.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively. The change in other income (loss), net for fiscal 2012 was attributable to a $4.5 million reduction in net gains on investments primarily due to market declines on our trading securities, a $4.4 million reduction in interest and other income primarily due to a reduction in interest on our financed accounts receivable and a $3.5 million increase in interest expense primarily due to the issuance of our senior unsecured notes due 2022. Other income (loss), net, for fiscal 2011 remained relatively flat as compared to fiscal 2010. Provision for Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $129.0 million, $75.1 million and $98.1 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 24.3%, 14.1% and 19.5%, respectively. Our effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to favorable tax rates associated with earnings from lower tax rate jurisdictions throughout the world and our policy of indefinitely reinvesting earnings from certain jurisdictions (primarily in Europe), as well as due to additional accruals, changes in estimates, releases and settlements with taxing authorities related to our uncertain tax positions and benefits associated with income attributable to both domestic production activities and the extraterritorial income exclusion. The overall favorable effects of foreign tax rates on our effective tax rate were 7.7%, 10.3% and 5.9% of pre tax earnings for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We also recorded discrete net tax benefits of $6.2 million, $57.2 million and $30.0 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters which favorably impacted our effective tax rate by 1.2%, 10.8% and 6.0% of pre tax earnings, respectively. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate on an annual basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory rates. 32 Non GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding our results as determined by GAAP, we disclose various non GAAP financial measures in our quarterly earnings press releases and other public disclosures. The primary non GAAP financial measures we focus on are: (i) non GAAP operating income, (ii) non GAAP net earnings, and (iii) non GAAP diluted earnings per share. Each of these financial measures excludes the impact of certain items and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with GAAP. These non GAAP financial measures exclude share based compensation expense; the amortization of intangible assets; severance, exit costs and related charges; as well as the related tax impacts of these items; and certain discrete tax items. Each of the non GAAP adjustments is described in more detail below. A reconciliation of each of these non GAAP financial measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure is also included below. We believe that these non GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results because they exclude amounts that BMC management and the Board of Directors do not consider part of core operating results when assessing the performance of the organization. In addition, we have historically reported similar non GAAP financial measures, and we believe that inclusion of these non GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with past reports of financial results. Accordingly, we believe these non GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management. While we believe that these non GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, there are limitations associated with the use of these non GAAP financial measures. These non GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. Items such as share based compensation expense; the amortization of intangible assets; severance, exit costs and related charges; as well as the related tax impacts of these items; and certain discrete tax items that are excluded from our non GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on net earnings. As a result, these non GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, net earnings, cash flow from operations or other measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by using these non GAAP financial measures as supplements to GAAP financial measures and by reconciling the non GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliations of these non GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures below. 33 For a detailed explanation of the adjustments made to comparable GAAP financial measures, the reasons why management uses these measures and the usefulness of these measures, see items (1) (5) below. Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Operating income: GAAP operating income $ 543.9 $ 532.8 $ 506.1 Share based compensation expense (1) 127.2 106.5 88.9 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 97.7 79.1 76.5 Severance, exit costs and related charges (3) 10.8 14.3 3.0 Non GAAP operating income $ 779.6 $ 732.7 $ 674.5 Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Net earnings: GAAP net earnings $ 401.0 $ 456.2 $ 406.1 Share based compensation expense (1) 127.2 106.5 88.9 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 97.7 79.1 76.5 Severance, exit costs and related charges (3) 10.8 14.3 3.0 Provision for income taxes on above pre tax non GAAP adjustments (4) (68.4 ) (52.7 ) (48.5 ) Certain discrete tax items (5) (6.2 ) (57.2 ) (30.0 ) Non GAAP net earnings $ 562.1 $ 546.2 $ 496.0 Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 Diluted earnings per share*: GAAP diluted earnings per share $ 2.32 $ 2.50 $ 2.17 Share based compensation expense (1) 0.74 0.58 0.48 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 0.57 0.43 0.41 Severance, exit costs and related charges (3) 0.06 0.08 0.02 Provision for income taxes on above pre tax non GAAP adjustments (4) (0.40 ) (0.29 ) (0.26 ) Certain discrete tax items (5) (0.04 ) (0.31 ) (0.16 ) Non GAAP diluted earnings per share* $ 3.25 $ 2.99 $ 2.66 * Non GAAP diluted earnings per share is computed independently for each period presented. The sum of GAAP diluted earnings per share and non GAAP adjustments per share may not equal non GAAP diluted earnings per share due to rounding differences. (1) Share based compensation expense. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude the compensation expenses required to be recorded by GAAP for equity awards to employees and directors. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating corporate performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non GAAP financial measures, excluding expenses related to share based compensation, because these costs are generally fixed at the time an award is granted, are then expensed over several years and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management once granted. (2) Amortization of intangible assets. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude costs associated with the amortization of intangible assets, which are included in cost of license revenue and amortization of intangible assets in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating corporate performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non GAAP financial measures, excluding amortization of intangible assets, because these costs are fixed at the time of an acquisition, are then amortized over a period of several years after the acquisition and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the acquisition. 34 (3) Severance, exit costs and related charges. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude severance, exit costs and related charges, and any subsequent changes in estimates, as they relate to our corporate restructuring and exit activities. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating corporate performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non GAAP financial measures, excluding severance, exit costs and related charges, in order to provide comparability and consistency with historical operating results. (4) Provision for income taxes on above pre tax non GAAP adjustments. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude the tax impact of the above pre tax non GAAP adjustments. This amount is calculated using the tax rates of each country to which these pre tax non GAAP adjustments relate. Management excludes the non GAAP adjustments on a net of tax basis in evaluating our performance. Therefore, we exclude the tax impact of these charges when presenting non GAAP financial measures. (5) Certain discrete tax items. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude net tax benefits of $6.2 million, $57.2 million and $30.0 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters. Management excludes the impact of these items in evaluating our performance. Therefore, we exclude these items when presenting non GAAP financial measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2012, we had $1.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents and investments, approximately 60% of which was held by our international subsidiaries and was largely generated from our international operations. Our international operations have generated $615.8 million of earnings that we have determined will be invested indefinitely in those operations. If such earnings were to be repatriated, we would incur a United States federal income tax liability that is not currently accrued in our financial statements. We also had outstanding letters of credit, performance bonds and similar instruments at March 31, 2012 of approximately $44.6 million primarily in support of performance obligations to various customers, but also related to facilities and other obligations. At March 31, 2012 and 2011, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $29.3 million and $29.8 million, respectively, which were classified as available for sale. The total estimated fair value of our auction rate securities was $26.9 million and $27.2 million at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our auction rate securities consist entirely of bonds issued by public agencies that are backed by student loans with at least a 97% guarantee by the federal government under the United States Department of Educations Federal Family Education Loan Program. All of these bonds are currently rated investment grade by Moodys or Standard and Poors. Auctions for these securities began failing in early 2008 and have continued to fail, resulting in our continuing to hold such securities and the issuers paying interest at the maximum contractual rates. We do not believe that any of the underlying issuers of these auction rate securities are presently at risk of default or that the underlying credit quality of the assets backing the auction rate security investments has been impacted by the reduced liquidity of these investments. Due to the illiquidity in the auction rate securities market caused by failed auctions, we estimated the fair value of these securities and the put option discussed below using internally developed models of the expected cash flows of the securities on a discounted basis. These models incorporate assumptions about the expected cash flows of the underlying student loans discounted at an estimate of the rate of return required by investors, which includes an adjustment to reflect a lack of liquidity in the market for these securities. Periodically, the issuers of certain of our auction rate securities have redeemed portions of our holdings at par value plus accrued interest. During fiscal 2012 and 2011, issuers redeemed available for sale holdings of $0.5 million par value and $20.9 million par value, respectively, and trading holdings of $5.4 million par value during fiscal 2011. On July 1, 2010, we exercised our right under a put agreement with a bank from which we acquired certain auction rate securities to put the remaining securities subject to this agreement, with $11.2 million par value, to the bank. In February 2012, we issued $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes due 2022. Net proceeds to us after original issuance discount and issuance costs amounted to $493.3 million. These senior notes were issued at an original issuance discount of $2.7 million. These senior notes bear interest at a rate of 4.25% per annum, payable semi annually in February and August of each year. These senior notes are redeemable at our option at any time in whole or, from time to time, in part at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of these senior notes to be redeemed, or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted at the applicable United States Treasury rate plus 35 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest. These senior notes are subject to the provisions of an indenture which includes covenants limiting, among other things, the creation of liens securing indebtedness and sale leaseback transactions. In November 2010, we entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders providing for an unsecured revolving credit facility in an amount up to $400.0 million which is scheduled to expire on November 30, 2014 (the Credit Facility). Subject to certain conditions, at any time prior to maturity, we may invite existing and new lenders to increase the size of the Credit Facility up to a maximum of $600.0 million. The Credit Facility includes provisions for swing line loans of up to $25.0 million and standby letters of credit of up to $50.0 million. Revolving loans under the Credit Facility bear interest, at the Companys option, at a rate equal to either (i) the base rate (as defined) plus a margin based on the credit ratings of BMCs senior notes, or (ii) the LIBOR rate (as defined) plus a margin based on the credit ratings of BMCs senior notes, for interest periods of one, two, three or six months. As of March 31, 2012 and through May 10, 2012, we have not borrowed any funds under the Credit Facility. 35 In June 2008, we issued $300.0 million of senior unsecured notes due 2018. Net proceeds to us after original issuance discount and issuance costs amounted to $295.6 million. These senior notes were issued at an original issuance discount of $1.8 million. These senior notes bear interest at a rate of 7.25% per annum, payable semi annually in June and December of each year. These senior notes are redeemable at our option at any time in whole or, from time to time, in part at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of these senior notes to be redeemed, or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted at the applicable United States Treasury rate plus 50 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest. These senior notes are subject to the provisions of an indenture which includes covenants limiting, among other things, the creation of liens securing indebtedness and sale leaseback transactions. We believe that our existing cash and investment balances, funds generated from operating activities and available credit under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our working and other capital requirements for the foreseeable future. In the normal course of business, we evaluate the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with or investing in these businesses. We may elect to use available cash and investments to fund such activities in the future. In the event additional needs for cash arise, we might find it advantageous to utilize third party financing sources based on factors such as our then available cash and its source (i.e., cash held in the United States versus international locations), the cost of financing and our internal cost of capital. We may from time to time seek to repurchase or retire securities, including outstanding borrowings and equity securities, in open market repurchases, unsolicited or solicited privately negotiated transactions or in such other manner as will comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the rules and regulations thereunder. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements and contractual restrictions, if applicable. The amount of repurchases, which is subject to management discretion, may be material and may change from period to period. Our cash flows during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 were: Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 800.3 $ 765.2 $ 635.4 Net cash used in investing activities (665.9 ) (147.6 ) (159.3 ) Net cash used in financing activities (282.0 ) (340.9 ) (158.7 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (16.4 ) 15.6 27.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (164.0 ) $ 292.3 $ 345.3 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2012 increased by $35.1 million over fiscal 2011, attributable primarily to the net impact of working capital changes, partially offset by a decrease in net earnings before non cash expenses (principally depreciation, amortization, share based compensation expense and deferred income tax provision). Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2011 increased by $129.8 million over fiscal 2010, attributable primarily to an increase in net earnings before non cash expenses (principally depreciation, amortization, share based compensation expense and deferred income tax provision) as well as the net impact of working capital changes. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2012 increased by $518.3 million over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable primarily to an increase in cash expended for acquisitions, a decrease in proceeds from the maturities and sales of investments, an increase in investment purchases and an increase in capitalization of software development costs. Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2011 decreased by $11.7 million from fiscal 2010. This decrease was attributable primarily to a decrease in investment purchases and in cash expended for acquisitions, offset by a decrease in proceeds from the maturities of investments and an increase in capitalization of software development costs. 36 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2012 decreased by $58.9 million from fiscal 2011. This decrease was attributable primarily to an increase in proceeds from borrowings, partially offset by an increase in treasury stock acquired and a decrease in proceeds from stock option exercises. Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2011 increased by $182.2 million over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable primarily to an increase in treasury stock acquired and a decrease in proceeds from borrowings, offset by an increase in proceeds from stock option exercises. Trade Finance Receivables We provide financing on a portion of our sales transactions to customers that meet our standards of creditworthiness. We believe our practice of providing financing at reasonable market interest rates enhances our competitive position. We participate in established programs with third party financial institutions and sell a significant portion of our finance receivables to such institutions on a non recourse basis, enabling us to collect cash on a timely basis while fully transferring credit risk of customer default to third party financial institutions. We record transfers of finance receivables to third party financial institutions as sales of such finance receivables when we have surrendered control of such receivables (including determining that such assets have been isolated beyond our reach and the reach of our creditors) and when we do not have significant continuing involvement in the generation of cash flows due the financial institutions. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, we transferred $227.9 million, $172.3 million and $208.8 million, respectively, of such receivables through these programs. Treasury Stock Purchases Our Board of Directors has authorized a total of $5.0 billion to repurchase common stock. During fiscal 2012, we repurchased 19.2 million shares for $780.5 million. From the inception of the stock repurchase authorization through March 31, 2012, we have purchased 152.0 million shares for $4.1 billion. At March 31, 2012, there was $850.2 million remaining in the stock repurchase program, which does not have an expiration date. In addition, during fiscal 2012, we repurchased 0.9 million shares for $38.2 million to satisfy employee tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of share based awards. The repurchase of stock will continue to be funded primarily with cash generated from domestic operations, and therefore, affects our overall domestic versus international liquidity balances. See Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities above for a monthly detail of treasury stock purchases for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. Contractual Obligations The following is a summary of our contractual obligations at March 31, 2012: Less Than1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5Years Total (In millions) Senior unsecured notes (1) $ 43.0 $ 86.0 $ 86.0 $ 938.9 $ 1,153.9 Capital lease obligations (1) 8.9 10.9 19.8 Operating lease obligations 41.9 53.1 13.9 7.3 116.2 Purchase obligations (2) 8.6 8.7 17.3 Other long term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet (1) 14.4 15.6 30.0 Total contractual obligations (3)(4) $ 116.8 $ 174.3 $ 99.9 $ 946.2 $ 1,337.2 (1) Represents contractual amounts due, including interest. (2) Represents obligations under agreements with non cancelable terms to purchase goods or services. The agreements are enforceable and legally binding, and contain specific terms, including quantities to be purchased and the timing of the purchase. (3) Total does not include contractual obligations recorded on the balance sheet as current liabilities, other than capital lease obligations and other long term liabilities above. (4) We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when cash settlement with taxing authorities will occur for our unrecognized tax benefits due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. Therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $90.5 million, including interest and penalties, is not included in the table above. 37 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. On an on going basis, we make and evaluate estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, capitalized software development costs, share based compensation, goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of investments and accounting for income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances; the results of which form the basis for making judgments about amounts and timing of revenue and expenses, the carrying values of assets and the recorded amounts of liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such estimates may change if the underlying conditions or assumptions change. We have discussed the development and selection of the critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the related disclosures below. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue principally from software related arrangements consisting of software license, maintenance and professional services offerings and non software arrangements consisting of our SaaS offerings. We commence revenue recognition when all of the following core revenue recognition criteria are satisfied: i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; ii) delivery of the license or service has occurred or is occurring; iii) the arrangement fee is fixed or determinable; and iv) collection of the arrangement fee is probable. Software License, Maintenance and Professional Services Arrangements Software license revenue is recognized when the core revenue recognition criteria above are satisfied and vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of the fair value of undelivered elements exists. As substantially all of our software licenses are sold in multiple element arrangements that include either maintenance or both maintenance and professional services, we use the residual method to determine the amount of license revenue to be recognized. Under the residual method, consideration is allocated to undelivered elements based upon VSOE of the fair value of those elements, with the residual of the arrangement fee allocated to and recognized as license revenue. We have established VSOE of the fair value of maintenance through independent maintenance renewals. These demonstrate a consistent relationship of pricing maintenance as a percentage of either the net license fee or the discounted or undiscounted license list price. VSOE of the fair value of professional services is established based on daily rates when sold on a stand alone basis, as well as management approved pricing for certain new offerings. We are unable to establish VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements in certain arrangements that include multiple software products for which the associated maintenance pricing is based on a combination of undiscounted license list prices, net license fees or discounted license list prices. We are also unable to establish VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements in certain arrangements that include unlimited licensing rights and certain arrangements that contain rights to future unspecified software products as part of the maintenance offering. If VSOE of fair value of one or more undelivered elements does not exist, license revenue is deferred and recognized upon delivery of those elements or when VSOE of fair value exists for all remaining undelivered elements, or if the deferral is due to the factors described above, license revenue is recognized ratably over the longest expected delivery period of undelivered elements in the arrangement, which is typically the longest maintenance term. In our time based license agreements, we are unable to establish VSOE of fair value for undelivered maintenance elements because the contractual maintenance terms in these arrangements are the same duration as the license terms, and VSOE of fair value of maintenance cannot be established. Accordingly, license fees in time based license arrangements are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangements. Maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the contractual terms of the maintenance arrangements, which primarily range from one to three years and in some instances can extend up to five or more years. Professional services revenue, which principally relates to implementation, integration and education services associated with our products, is derived under both time and material and fixed fee arrangements and in most instances is recognized on a proportional performance basis based on days of effort. If no discernable customer deliverable exists until the completion of the professional services, we apply the completed performance method and defer the recognition of professional services revenue until completion of the services, which is typically evidenced by a signed completion letter from the customer. Services that are sold in connection with software license arrangements generally qualify for separate accounting from the license elements because they do not involve significant production, modification or customization of our products and are not otherwise considered to be essential to the functionality of such products. In arrangements where the professional services do not qualify for separate accounting from the license elements, the combined software license and professional services revenue are recognized based on contract accounting using either the percentage of completion or completed contract method. 38 SaaS Arrangements SaaS subscription fees are recognized ratably over the contractual terms of the subscription arrangements beginning on the date that the service is made available to customers. Additional professional services fees, principally related to optional services engagements that are not essential to the functionality of our core SaaS offerings and are considered to have standalone value, are generally recognized on a proportional performance basis based on days of effort. In our consolidated financial statements, SaaS subscription revenue and optional professional services revenue are included in maintenance and professional services revenue, respectively. To date, SaaS and related professional services revenues have not represented a significant percentage of our total revenue in any period since our SaaS offerings were first introduced to the market in late fiscal 2010. Other Revenue Recognition Considerations In arrangements containing both software and non software (e.g., SaaS) elements, which to date have been infrequent, we allocate the arrangement consideration first into software and non software units of accounting based on a relative selling price hierarchy and then apply the applicable software and non software revenue recognition criteria to each unit of accounting. To date, we have determined the relative selling price of software and non software units of accounting based on managements best estimate of selling price as other means of determining relative selling price (e.g., VSOE or other third party evidence) have not been available with respect to all of the components in bundled software and non software arrangements. We also execute arrangements through resellers, distributors and systems integrators (collectively, channel partners) in which the channel partners act as the principals in the transactions with the end users of our products and services. In license arrangements with channel partners, title and risk of loss pass to the channel partners upon execution of our arrangements with them and the delivery of our products to the channel partner or the end user. We recognize revenue from transactions with channel partners on a net basis (the amount actually received by us from the channel partners) when all other revenue recognition criteria are satisfied. We do not offer right of return, product rotation or price protection to any of our channel partners. Revenue from financed customer transactions are generally recognized in the same manner as those requiring current payment, as we have a history of offering installment contracts to customers and successfully enforcing original payment terms without making concessions. In arrangements where the fees are not considered to be fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue when payments become due under the arrangement. If we determine that a transaction is not probable of collection or a risk of concession exists, we do not recognize revenue in excess of the amount of cash received. We are required to charge certain taxes on our revenue transactions. These amounts are not included in revenue. Instead, we record a liability when the amounts are collected and relieve the liability when payments are made to the applicable government agency. In our consolidated statements of comprehensive income, revenue is categorized as license, maintenance or professional services revenue. We allocate revenue from arrangements containing multiple elements to each of these categories based on the VSOE of fair value for elements in each revenue arrangement and the application of the residual method for arrangements in which we have established VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements. In arrangements where we are not able to establish VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements, we first allocate revenue to any undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has been established, then allocate revenue to any undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has not been established based upon managements best estimate of fair value of those undelivered elements and apply a residual method to determine the license fee. Managements best estimate of fair value of undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has not been established is based upon the VSOE of similar offerings and other objective criteria. Capitalized Software Development Costs Costs of internally developed software are expensed until the technological feasibility of the software product has been established. Thereafter, software development costs are capitalized until the product is generally available to customers in accordance with relevant accounting standards. Judgment is involved in determining the point at which technological feasibility is reached. If different judgments were made, they could result in a different amount of costs that are capitalized. Capitalized software development costs are then amortized using the greater of an amount determined by the ratio of current revenues recognized to the total anticipated revenues for a product or straight line over the products estimated economic life beginning at the date of general availability of the product to our customers. We evaluate our capitalized software development costs at each balance sheet date to determine if the unamortized balance related to any given product exceeds the estimated net realizable value of that product. Any such excess is written off through accelerated amortization in the quarter in which it is identified. Determining net realizable value requires that we make estimates and use judgment in quantifying the appropriate amount to write off, if any. Actual amounts realized from the sales of software products could differ from our estimates. Also, any future changes to our product portfolio could result in significant increases to our cost of license revenue as a result of the impairment of capitalized software development costs or acquired technology. 39 Share Based Compensation Share based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as compensation expense on a straight line basis over the requisite service period of the award, which is generally the vesting period. We estimate the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase plan awards using the Black Scholes option pricing model. We use the fair value of the Companys common stock at the date of grant as an estimate of fair value for time based nonvested stock units, and we utilize Monte Carlo simulation models to estimate the fair value of certain market based nonvested stock units. The fair values of share based awards determined on the date of grant using a fair value model are impacted by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These assumptions include our expected stock price volatility, the risk free interest rate over the expected term of the awards and expected stock price volatilities of the NASDAQ 100 Index used in our Monte Carlo simulation models. We estimate the volatility of our stock price using a combination of both historical volatility and implied volatility derived from market traded options for our stock, as we believe that the combined volatility is more representative of future stock price volatility than either historical or implied volatility alone. We estimate the risk free interest rate based on zero coupon yields implied from United States Treasury issues with maturities similar to the expected term of the awards. We estimate the expected term of options granted using the simplified method allowed by relevant accounting standards, due to changes in vesting terms and contractual lives of our current options compared to our historical grants. We have never paid cash dividends and do not currently intend to pay cash dividends, and therefore we assume an expected dividend yield of zero in the valuation models. We estimate potential forfeitures of share based awards at the time of grant and record compensation expense for those awards expected to vest. The estimate of forfeitures is reassessed over the requisite service period and, to the extent that actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from such estimates, compensation expense is adjusted through a cumulative catch up adjustment in the period of change and the remaining unrecognized share based compensation expense is recorded over the remaining requisite service period. We use historical data to estimate prevesting forfeitures and record share based compensation expense for those awards that are expected to vest. If we use different assumptions for estimating share based compensation expense in future periods or if actual forfeitures differ materially from our estimated forfeitures, the amount of such expense recorded in future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. We record deferred tax assets for share based awards that we believe will result in deductions on our income tax returns, based on the amount of share based compensation expense recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which we will receive a tax deduction. Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on our income tax returns are recorded in additional paid in capital. If the tax deduction is less than the deferred tax asset, such shortfalls reduce our pool of excess tax benefits. If the pool of excess tax benefits is reduced to zero, then subsequent shortfalls would increase our income tax expense. Goodwill and Intangible Assets When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price is typically allocated to acquired technology and other identifiable intangible assets, such as customer relationships. The excess of our cost over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The amounts allocated to acquired technology and other intangible assets represent our estimates of their fair values at the acquisition date. The fair values are primarily estimated using the expected present value of future cash flows method of applying the income approach, which requires us to project the related future revenue and expenses and apply an appropriate discount rate. We amortize the acquired technology and other intangible assets with finite lives over their estimated useful lives. All goodwill is assessed for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value has been reduced below carrying value. When conducting our annual goodwill impairment assessment, we initially perform a qualitative evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired in order to determine the need to perform the two step impairment test. If we determine by a qualitative evaluation that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, we conduct a quantitative assessment of impairment which requires us to estimate future cash flows. The estimates used in valuing all intangible assets and assessing useful lives are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Accordingly, actual results may differ from the projected results used to determine fair value and to estimate useful lives. Incorrect estimates of fair value and or useful lives could result in future impairment charges and those charges could be material to our results of operations. 40 Valuation of Investments Our investments consist of debt and equity securities. We classify our investments in equity securities that have readily determinable fair values and all debt securities as held to maturity, available for sale or trading at acquisition and reevaluate such classification at each subsequent balance sheet date. We do not have any investments classified as held to maturity at March 31, 2012 or 2011. Our available for sale and trading securities are recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized gains or losses on available for sale securities are recorded, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), unless an impairment is considered to be other than temporary. Other than temporary unrealized losses on available for sale securities are generally recorded in gain (loss) on investments, net, in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income unless certain criteria are met. In addition, unrealized gains and losses on trading securities and all realized gains and losses are recorded in gain (loss) on investments, net, in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. We account for our investments in non marketable equity securities where we do not have significant influence and that do not have a readily determinable fair value under the cost method of accounting. We regularly analyze our portfolio of available for sale and cost method investments for other than temporary declines in fair value. This analysis requires significant judgment as well as the use of estimates and assumptions. The primary factors considered when determining if a charge must be recorded because a decline in the fair value of an investment is other than temporary include whether: (i) the fair value of the investment is significantly below our cost basis; (ii) the financial condition of the issuer of the security has deteriorated; (iii) if a debt security, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the security; (iv) the decline in fair value has existed for an extended period of time; (v) if a debt security, such security has been downgraded by a rating agency; and (vi) whether we have the intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. We have investment policies which are designed to ensure that our assets are invested in capital preserving securities. However, from time to time, issuer specific and market specific events could warrant a write down for an other than temporary decline in fair value. At March 31, 2012, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $29.3 million and an estimated fair value of $26.9 million. Our auction rate securities consist entirely of bonds issued by public agencies that are backed by student loans with at least a 97% guarantee by the federal government under the United States Department of Educations Federal Family Education Loan Program. All of these bonds are currently rated investment grade by Moodys or Standard and Poors. Auctions for these securities began failing in early 2008 and have continued to fail, resulting in our continuing to hold such securities and the issuers paying interest at the maximum contractual rates. We do not believe that any of the underlying issuers of these auction rate securities are presently at risk of default or that the underlying credit quality of the assets backing the auction rate security investments has been impacted by the reduced liquidity of these investments. Due to the illiquidity in the auction rate securities market caused by failed auctions, we estimated the fair value of these securities using internally developed models of the expected cash flows of the securities. These models incorporate assumptions about the cash flows of the underlying student loans and estimates of the rate of return required by investors, which includes an adjustment to reflect a lack of liquidity in the market for these securities. As the vast majority of our investments are investment grade securities, we anticipate that any future impairment charges related to these investments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Investments in debt and equity securities with a fair value below our cost at March 31, 2012 are discussed in greater detail in Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Accounting for Income Taxes Income tax expense or benefit is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current years results and for deferred tax assets and liabilities related to the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities and the process of identifying items of revenue and expense that qualify for preferential tax treatment. We are subject to corporate income tax audits in multiple jurisdictions and our income tax expense includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that may result from the examination of our tax returns that have been filed in these jurisdictions. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters could be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net earnings in the period in which such determination is made. Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no United States taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Remittances of foreign earnings to the United States are planned based on projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of foreign and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount that will be distributed to the United States and provide United States federal taxes on these amounts. Material changes in our estimates could impact our effective tax rate. 41 In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We consider future market growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In December 2010 and in September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued updated guidance relating to the annual goodwill impairment test. This new guidance incorporates additional qualitative assessments at two discrete points in the goodwill impairment evaluation. First, entities are now permitted to perform an initial qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired in order to determine the need to perform the previously required two step impairment test. This new guidance was early adopted by us for our fiscal 2012 annual goodwill impairment test. Additionally, as part of step one of the two step impairment test, entities are required to perform a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired in situations where reporting units have a carrying value that is zero or negative. If the qualitative evaluation determines that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, step two of the goodwill impairment test is required to be performed to determine the amount of impairment, if any. This guidance was effective for us beginning with our fiscal 2012 goodwill impairment test. Neither set of guidance had a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In May 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance for fair value measurements, primarily clarifying existing guidance and adding new disclosure requirements for Level 3 fair value measurements. This guidance requires entities to disclose quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in Level 3 measurements, and to provide additional qualitative information regarding the valuation process in place for Level 3 measurements and the sensitivity of recurring Level 3 fair value measurements to changes in unobservable inputs used. This new guidance was effective for us beginning with our fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and did not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In October 2009, the FASB issued new revenue recognition guidance for arrangements that include both software and non software related deliverables. This guidance requires entities to allocate the overall consideration to each deliverable by using a best estimate of the selling price of individual deliverables in the arrangement in the absence of vendor specific objective evidence or other third party evidence of the selling price. Additionally, the guidance modifies the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across the separately identified deliverables by no longer permitting the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration. The new guidance was effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and did not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In December 2011, the FASB issued guidance requiring new disclosures regarding balance sheet offsetting. This guidance requires entities to disclose the gross amounts of certain recognized financial assets and liabilities, to reconcile these amounts to the net positions recognized in the balance sheet and to provide qualitative disclosures about the rights of offset relating to these financial assets and liabilities. This new disclosure guidance is effective for us beginning with our first quarter of fiscal 2014. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We are exposed to a variety of risks, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the impact of changes in interest rates on our investments and long term borrowings and changes in market prices of our debt and equity securities. In the normal course of business, we employ established policies and procedures to manage these risks including the use of derivative instruments. The hypothetical changes noted in the sections immediately below are based on sensitivity analyses performed at March 31, 2012. Actual results could differ materially. 42 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk We use derivatives to hedge those current net assets and liabilities that, when re measured in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, impact our consolidated statement of operations. Foreign currency forward contracts are utilized in these hedging programs. All foreign currency forward contracts entered into by us are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing exposure, not for speculation or trading purposes. Gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts would generally be offset by corresponding gains and losses on the net foreign currency assets and liabilities that they hedge, with the goal of minimizing the net gains or losses overall on the hedged exposures. When hedging balance sheet exposures, all gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income (loss) in the same period as when the gains and losses on re measurement of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities occur. All settlements of gains and losses related to foreign currency forward contracts are included in cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. If we did not hedge against foreign currency exchange rate movement, a hypothetical increase or decrease of 10% in exchange rates would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in earnings before taxes of approximately $14.4 million. This amount represents the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on exposures at March 31, 2012 related to balance sheet re measurement only and assumes that all currencies move in the same direction at the same time relative to the United States dollar. We do not currently hedge currency risk related to anticipated revenue or expenses denominated in foreign currencies. The notional amounts at contract exchange rates of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding were: Notional Amount March 31, 2012 2011 (In millions) Foreign Currency Forward Contracts (receive United States dollar/pay foreign currency) Euro $ 214.2 $ 158.5 Australian dollar 29.9 13.9 British pound 19.2 5.0 Chinese yuan renminbi 11.7 7.6 Brazilian real 8.7 5.6 Swedish krona 8.2 2.4 Swiss franc 6.8 1.5 Danish krone 3.9 3.0 Singapore dollar 3.8 0.6 New Zealand dollar 3.4 2.9 Mexican peso 3.2 South Korean won 2.6 4.6 Canadian dollar 4.2 Other 6.4 3.2 Total $ 322.0 $ 213.0 Foreign Currency Forward Contracts (pay United States dollar/receive foreign currency) Israeli shekel $ 158.2 $ 151.6 Mexican peso 9.3 Indian rupee 15.0 9.1 Other 4.8 2.2 Total $ 178.0 $ 172.2 Interest Rate Risk We adhere to a conservative investment policy, whereby our principal concern is the preservation of liquid funds. Cash, cash equivalents and investments were approximately $1.6 billion at March 31, 2012, which consisted of $1.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents and the remaining balance consisted primarily of different types of investment grade debt securities. Although our portfolio is subject to fluctuations in interest rates and market conditions, we classify most of our investments as available for sale, which provides that no gain or loss on any security would actually be recognized in earnings unless the instrument was sold or any loss in value was deemed to be other than temporary. Due to the current interest rate environment and the liquidity of our overall portfolio, any hypothetical decrease in annual interest rates would have an immaterial impact on earnings before taxes. 43 Market Risk The carrying value and fair value at March 31, 2012 of our senior unsecured notes due 2018 were $298.9 million and $368.4 million, respectively. The fair value was based upon market prices of these senior notes. If market interest rates increased by 100 basis points and assuming all other variables were held constant, we estimate the fair value of our senior unsecured notes due 2018 would decrease by approximately $17.9 million. The carrying value and fair value at March 31, 2012 of our senior unsecured notes due 2022 were $497.4 million and $506.6 million, respectively. The fair value was based upon market prices of these senior notes. If market interest rates increased by 100 basis points and assuming all other variables were held constant, we estimate the fair value of our senior unsecured notes due 2022 would decrease by approximately $38.5 million. At March 31, 2012, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $29.3 million and an estimated fair value of $26.9 million. For further information, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. We may incur additional temporary unrealized losses or other than temporary impairments in the future if current market conditions were to persist and we no longer had the intent and ability to retain the auction rate securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any recovery in fair value. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations It is important that this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto which appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following discussion contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Unless indicated otherwise, results of operations data in this MD&A are presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Additionally, in an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding our results of operations, certain non GAAP financial measures including non GAAP operating income, non GAAP net earnings and non GAAP diluted earnings per share are provided in this MD&A. See Non GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations below for an explanation of our use of non GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to their corresponding measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Overview Our fiscal 2012 financial performance was solid across most of our core financial metrics. However, year over year ESM license bookings declined and were below our original expectations; refer to the additional discussion regarding ESM license bookings below. Select operating metrics for fiscal 2012 include: Total bookings, which represent the contract value of transactions closed and recorded, were $2,196.8 million, essentially flat as compared to fiscal 2011. During fiscal 2012, one large transaction generated total bookings of over $100 million, principally related to our MSM business. Total license bookings were $882.4 million, representing a decrease of $44.0 million, or 4.7%, from fiscal 2011. During fiscal 2012, we closed 158 transactions with license values over $1 million (with total license bookings of $480.0 million) compared with 162 transactions with license values over $1 million (with total license bookings of $498.1 million) in fiscal 2011. Within our ESM segment, where we evaluate performance on the basis of license bookings, total license bookings decreased by $64.7 million, or 11.3%, from fiscal 2011. We attribute this decrease principally to sales related factors, including a decline in productive sales capacity caused by sales force attrition as well as a decrease in productivity associated with a reduction in average sales force tenure and experience levels. ESM license bookings in the current year have also been adversely impacted by challenging economic and financial conditions in key geographic areas and market segments, particularly within certain European regions and the U.S. public sector. Within our MSM segment, where we evaluate performance based on total and annualized bookings, total bookings for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2012 increased by $51.9 million, or 6.2%, and on an annualized basis, after normalizing for contract length, decreased by $27.0 million, or 9.3%, as compared to the prior year period. Over the trailing 36 months ended March 31, 2012, total MSM bookings increased by $156.7 million, or 6.5%, and annualized bookings, after normalizing for contract length, were essentially flat as compared to the prior year period. Total revenue was $2,172.0 million, representing an increase of $106.7 million, or 5.2%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was reflective of license, maintenance and professional services revenue increases of $13.3 million, or 1.5%, $56.2 million, or 5.5%, and $37.2 million, or 21.1%, respectively. On a segment basis, total ESM revenue increased by $63.1 million, or 4.9%, and total MSM revenue increased by $43.6 million, or 5.5%, over fiscal 2011. Operating income was $543.9 million, representing an increase of $11.1 million, or 2.1%, over fiscal 2011. Non GAAP operating income was $779.6 million, representing an increase of $46.9 million, or 6.4%, over fiscal 2011. Net earnings were $401.0 million, representing a decrease of $55.2 million, or 12.1%, from fiscal 2011. Included in net earnings for fiscal 2012 and 2011 were net tax benefits of $6.2 million and $57.2 million, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters which were excluded from our non GAAP results. Non GAAP net earnings were $562.1 million, representing an increase of $15.9 million, or 2.9%, over fiscal 2011. Diluted earnings per share was $2.32, representing a decrease of $0.18, or 7.2%, from fiscal 2011. Included in diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2012 and 2011 were net tax benefits of $0.04 and $0.31 per share, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters which were excluded from our non GAAP results. Non GAAP diluted earnings per share was $3.25, representing an increase of $0.26, or 8.7%, over fiscal 2011. 23 Cash flows from operations were $800.3 million, representing an increase of $35.1 million, or 4.6%, over fiscal 2011. We closed out the year with a strong balance sheet at March 31, 2012, including $1.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents and investments and $2.0 billion in deferred revenue. We continue to invest in our technology leadership, including in the areas of cloud computing and SaaS. In addition to our ongoing product development efforts, we consummated multiple strategic acquisitions across both our ESM and MSM segments during fiscal 2012 for aggregate cash consideration of $474.0 million. In our ESM segment, we acquired Coradiant Inc., Aeroprise, Inc., StreamStep, Inc. and Numara Software Holdings, Inc., the latter of which we recently acquired in the fourth quarter and which expands our IT service management solution offerings to small and mid sized businesses. In our MSM segment, we completed the purchase of Neon Enterprise Software, LLCs IMS software portfolio and I/O Concepts Software Corporation. We also continue to enhance shareholder value by returning cash to shareholders through our stock repurchase program. During fiscal 2012, we repurchased approximately 19.2 million shares for a total value of $780.5 million. Our earnings are subject to volatility as a significant portion of our operating expenses is fixed in the short term and we plan a portion of our expense run rate based on our expectations of future revenue. In addition, a significant amount of our license transactions are completed during the final weeks and days of each quarter, and therefore, we generally do not know whether revenue has met our expectations until after the end of the quarter. If a shortfall in revenue were to occur in any given quarter, there would be an immediate, and possibly significant, impact to our overall earnings and, most likely, our stock price. Because our software solutions are designed for and marketed to companies looking to improve the management of their IT infrastructure and processes, demand for our products, and therefore our financial results, are dependent upon customers continuing to value such solutions and to invest in such technology. There are a number of trends that have historically influenced demand for IT management software, including, among others, business demands placed on IT, computing capacity within IT departments, complexity of IT systems and IT operational costs. Our financial results are also influenced by many economic and industry conditions, including, but not limited to, general economic and market conditions in the United States and other economies in which we market products, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, general levels of customer spending, IT budgets, the competitiveness of the IT management software and solutions industry, the adoption rate for Business Service Management and the stability of the mainframe market. Acquisitions We have consummated multiple acquisitions of businesses in recent years. Each of these acquisitions has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly, the financial results for these entities have been included in our consolidated financial results since the applicable acquisition dates. Fiscal 2012 Acquisitions During fiscal 2012, we completed the acquisitions of Numara Software Holdings, Inc., a provider of integrated IT service management solutions for mid sized and small companies, for total cash consideration of $305.9 million, and Coradiant Inc., a global provider of end to end performance management of web applications, for total cash consideration of $130.0 million. Additionally, we completed the acquisitions of Aeroprise, Inc., a provider of mobile IT service management solutions, Neon Enterprise Software, LLCs IMS software portfolio, StreamStep, Inc., a provider of application release process management solutions, and I/O Concepts Software Corporation, a provider of mainframe management and security solutions, for combined cash consideration of $38.1 million. Fiscal 2011 Acquisitions During fiscal 2011, we completed the acquisition of the software business of Neptuny S.r.l., a provider of continuous capacity optimization software, and the acquisition of GridApp Systems, Inc., a provider of comprehensive database provisioning, patching and administration software, for combined purchase consideration of $51.5 million. Fiscal 2010 Acquisitions During fiscal 2010, we completed the acquisitions of MQSoftware, Inc., a provider of middleware and enterprise application transaction management software, Tideway Systems Limited, a provider of IT discovery solutions, and Phurnace Software, Inc., a developer of software that automates the deployment and configuration of business critical Java EE applications, for combined purchase consideration of $94.3 million. 24 Historical Information Historical performance should not be viewed as indicative of future performance, as there can be no assurance that operating income or net earnings will be sustained at these levels. For a discussion of factors affecting operating results, see the Risk Factors section above. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the fiscal years indicated, the percentages that selected items in the accompanying consolidated statements of comprehensive income represent of total revenue. These financial results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Percentage of Total Revenuefor the Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 Revenue: License 40.4 % 41.8 % 39.6 % Maintenance 49.8 % 49.6 % 53.6 % Professional services 9.8 % 8.6 % 6.8 % Total revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses: Cost of license revenue 7.3 % 6.3 % 6.0 % Cost of maintenance revenue 9.1 % 8.2 % 8.3 % Cost of professional services revenue 9.8 % 9.0 % 7.2 % Selling and marketing expenses 29.2 % 29.6 % 29.2 % Research and development expenses 7.6 % 8.8 % 10.3 % General and administrative expenses 10.0 % 10.7 % 10.8 % Amortization of intangible assets 1.9 % 1.6 % 1.7 % Total operating expenses 75.0 % 74.2 % 73.5 % Operating income 25.0 % 25.8 % 26.5 % Other loss, net (0.6 )% (0.1 )% (0.1 )% Earnings before income taxes 24.4 % 25.7 % 26.4 % Provision for income taxes 5.9 % 3.6 % 5.1 % Net earnings 18.5 % 22.1 % 21.2 % 25 Revenue The following table provides information regarding software license and software maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared to Compared to Software License Revenue 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Enterprise Service Management $ 543.3 $ 550.9 $ 462.2 (1.4 )% 19.2 % Mainframe Service Management 334.5 313.6 296.2 6.7 % 5.9 % Total software license revenue $ 877.8 $ 864.5 $ 758.4 1.5 % 14.0 % Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared to Compared to Software Maintenance Revenue 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Enterprise Service Management $ 585.0 $ 551.5 $ 550.9 6.1 % 0.1 % Mainframe Service Management 495.4 472.7 472.8 4.8 % (0.0 )% Total software maintenance revenue $ 1,080.4 $ 1,024.2 $ 1,023.7 5.5 % 0.0 % Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared to Compared to Total Software Revenue 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Enterprise Service Management $ 1,128.3 $ 1,102.4 $ 1,013.1 2.3 % 8.8 % Mainframe Service Management 829.9 786.3 769.0 5.5 % 2.2 % Total software revenue $ 1,958.2 $ 1,888.7 $ 1,782.1 3.7 % 6.0 % Software License Revenue License revenue was $877.8 million, $864.5 million and $758.4 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. License revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $13.3 million, or 1.5%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable to a license revenue increase in our MSM segment, partially offset by a license revenue decrease in our ESM segment, as further discussed below. Recognition of license revenue in fiscal 2012 that was deferred in prior periods increased by $9.7 million over fiscal 2011. Of the license revenue transactions recorded, the percentage of license revenue recognized upfront increased to 54% for fiscal 2012 as compared to 51% in fiscal 2011. License revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $106.1 million, or 14.0%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to license revenue increases in both our ESM and MSM segments, as further discussed below. Recognition of license revenue in fiscal 2011 that was deferred in prior periods increased by $4.3 million over fiscal 2010. Of the license revenue transactions recorded, the percentage of license revenue recognized upfront increased to 51% for fiscal 2011 as compared to 48% in fiscal 2010. ESM license revenue was $543.3 million, or 61.9%, $550.9 million, or 63.7%, and $462.2 million, or 60.9%, of our total license revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. ESM license revenue in fiscal 2012 decreased by $7.6 million, or 1.4%, from fiscal 2011, due to a $13.4 million decrease in the recognition of previously deferred license revenue, partially offset by a $5.8 million increase in the amount of upfront license revenue recognized in connection with new transactions. ESM license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $88.7 million, or 19.2%, over fiscal 2010, primarily due to a $77.9 million increase in the amount of upfront license revenue recognized in connection with new transactions and a $10.8 million increase in the recognition of previously deferred license revenue. The increase in upfront license revenue recognized was attributable to an increase in ESM license transaction bookings, due primarily to increased demand for our BSM solutions and increased sales productivity, and a higher percentage of license transaction bookings that were recognized as upfront revenue rather than ratably over the underlying contractual maintenance terms. 26 MSM license revenue was $334.5 million, or 38.1%, $313.6 million, or 36.3%, and $296.2 million, or 39.1%, of our total license revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. MSM license revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $20.9 million, or 6.7%, over fiscal 2011, due to a $23.1 million increase in the recognition of previously deferred license revenue, partially offset by a $2.2 million decrease in the amount of upfront license revenue recognized in connection with new transactions. MSM license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $17.4 million, or 5.9%, over fiscal 2010, primarily due to a $23.9 million increase in the amount of upfront license revenue recognized in connection with new transactions, partially offset by a $6.5 million decrease in the recognition of previously deferred license revenue. The increase in upfront license revenue recognized in fiscal 2011 was attributable to an increase in license bookings and a higher percentage of license bookings that were recognized as upfront revenue rather than ratably over the underlying contractual maintenance terms. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, our recognized license revenue was impacted by the changes in our deferred license revenue balance as follows: Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Deferrals of license revenue $ 410.4 $ 454.1 $ 398.9 Recognition from deferred license revenue (404.5 ) (394.8 ) (390.5 ) Impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes (1.3 ) 2.6 4.9 Net increase in deferred license revenue $ 4.6 $ 61.9 $ 13.3 Deferred license revenue balance at end of period $ 690.7 $ 686.1 $ 624.2 The primary reasons for license revenue deferrals include, but are not limited to, customer transactions that include products for which the maintenance pricing is based on a combination of undiscounted license list prices, net license fees or discounted license list prices, certain arrangements that include unlimited licensing rights, time based licenses that are recognized over the term of the arrangement, customer transactions that include products with differing maintenance periods and other transactions for which we do not have or are not able to determine vendor specific objective evidence of the fair value of the maintenance and or professional services. The contract terms and conditions that result in deferral of revenue recognition for a given transaction result from arms length negotiations between us and our customers. We anticipate our transactions will continue to include such contract terms that result in deferral of the related license revenue as we expand our offerings to meet customers product, pricing and licensing needs. Once it is determined that license revenue for a particular contract must be deferred, based on the contractual terms and application of revenue recognition policies to those terms, we recognize such license revenue either ratably over the term of the contract or when the revenue recognition criteria are met. Because of this, we generally know the timing of the subsequent recognition of license revenue at the time of deferral. Therefore, the amount of license revenue to be recognized from the deferred revenue balance in each future quarter is generally predictable. At March 31, 2012, the deferred license revenue balance was $690.7 million. Estimated future recognition from deferred license revenue at March 31, 2012 is (in millions): Fiscal 2013 $ 328.0 Fiscal 2014 185.4 Fiscal 2015 and thereafter 177.3 $ 690.7 Software Maintenance Revenue Maintenance revenue was $1,080.4 million, $1,024.2 million and $1,023.7 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012 included $9.7 million of revenue from our SaaS offerings, which is included in our ESM segment. Maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $56.2 million, or 5.5% over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable to maintenance revenue increases in both our ESM and MSM segments, as further discussed below. 27 Maintenance revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $0.5 million, essentially flat as compared to fiscal 2010 for both ESM and MSM, as further discussed below. ESM maintenance revenue was $585.0 million, or 54.1%, $551.5 million, or 53.8%, and $550.9 million, or 53.8%, of our total maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. ESM maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $33.5 million, or 6.1%, over fiscal 2011. This year over year increase was attributable primarily to the expansion of our installed ESM customer license base and a $9.2 million increase in SaaS subscription revenue. ESM maintenance revenue remained relatively flat in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. MSM maintenance revenue was $495.4 million, or 45.9%, $472.7 million, or 46.2%, and $472.8 million, or 46.2%, of our total maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. MSM maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $22.7 million, or 4.8%, over fiscal 2011, due to the expansion of our installed MSM customer license base and increasing capacities of the current installed base. MSM maintenance revenue remained relatively flat in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. At March 31, 2012, the deferred maintenance revenue balance was $1,267.2 million. Estimated future recognition from deferred maintenance revenue at March 31, 2012 is (in millions): Fiscal 2013 $ 699.1 Fiscal 2014 313.2 Fiscal 2015 and thereafter 254.9 $ 1,267.2 Domestic vs. International Revenue Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared to Compared to 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) License: Domestic $ 412.5 $ 420.4 $ 390.3 (1.9 )% 7.7 % International 465.3 444.1 368.1 4.8 % 20.6 % Total license revenue 877.8 864.5 758.4 1.5 % 14.0 % Maintenance: Domestic 581.7 556.8 561.4 4.5 % (0.8 )% International 498.7 467.4 462.3 6.7 % 1.1 % Total maintenance revenue 1,080.4 1,024.2 1,023.7 5.5 % 0.0 % Professional services: Domestic 103.6 85.9 59.8 20.6 % 43.6 % International 110.2 90.7 69.3 21.5 % 30.9 % Total professional services revenue 213.8 176.6 129.1 21.1 % 36.8 % Total domestic revenue 1,097.8 1,063.1 1,011.5 3.3 % 5.1 % Total international revenue 1,074.2 1,002.2 899.7 7.2 % 11.4 % Total revenue $ 2,172.0 $ 2,065.3 $ 1,911.2 5.2 % 8.1 % We estimate that the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our international revenue resulted in an approximate $11 million increase in total fiscal 2012 revenue as compared to fiscal 2011 and an approximate $4 million increase in total fiscal 2011 revenue as compared to fiscal 2010, on a constant currency basis. Domestic License Revenue Domestic license revenue was $412.5 million, or 47.0%, $420.4 million, or 48.6%, and $390.3 million, or 51.5%, of our total license revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Domestic license revenue in fiscal 2012 decreased by $7.9 million, or 1.9%, from fiscal 2011, due to a $9.2 million decrease in ESM license revenue, partially offset by a $1.3 million increase in MSM license revenue. 28 Domestic license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $30.1 million, or 7.7%, over fiscal 2010, due to a $35.6 million increase in ESM license revenue, partially offset by a $5.5 million decrease in MSM license revenue. International License Revenue International license revenue was $465.3 million, or 53.0%, $444.1 million, or 51.4%, and $368.1 million, or 48.5%, of our total license revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. International license revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $21.2 million, or 4.8%, over fiscal 2011, due to a $1.6 million increase in ESM license revenue and a $19.6 million increase in MSM license revenue. The ESM license revenue increase was attributable to increases of $7.7 million, $7.2 million and $5.5 million in our Latin America, Asia Pacific and Canada markets, respectively, partially offset by an $18.8 million decrease in our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) market. The MSM license revenue increase was attributable to increases of $12.7 million, $11.6 million and $2.4 million in our EMEA, Latin America and Asia Pacific markets, respectively, partially offset by a $7.1 million decrease in our Canada market. International license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $76.0 million, or 20.6%, over fiscal 2010, due to a $53.1 million increase in ESM license revenue and a $22.9 million increase in MSM license revenue. The ESM license revenue increase was attributable to increases of $33.0 million and $12.3 million in our EMEA and Asia Pacific markets, respectively, and a combined $7.8 million net increase in our other international markets. The MSM license revenue increase was attributable to increases of $13.1 million and $9.8 million in our Canada and EMEA markets, respectively. Domestic Maintenance Revenue Domestic maintenance revenue was $581.7 million, or 53.8%, $556.8 million, or 54.4%, and $561.4 million, or 54.8%, of our total maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Domestic maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $24.9 million, or 4.5%, over fiscal 2011, due to a $19.0 million increase in ESM maintenance revenue and a $5.9 million increase in MSM maintenance revenue. Domestic maintenance revenue in fiscal 2011 decreased by $4.6 million, or 0.8%, from fiscal 2010, due to a $5.2 million decrease in ESM maintenance revenue, partially offset by a $0.6 million increase in MSM maintenance revenue. International Maintenance Revenue International maintenance revenue was $498.7 million, or 46.2%, $467.4 million, or 45.6%, and $462.3 million, or 45.2%, of our total maintenance revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. International maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $31.3 million, or 6.7%, over fiscal 2011, due to a $14.4 million increase in ESM maintenance revenue and a $16.9 million increase in MSM maintenance revenue. The ESM maintenance revenue increase was attributable primarily to increases of $6.5 million, $5.9 million and $1.3 million in our Asia Pacific, EMEA and Canada markets, respectively. The MSM maintenance revenue increase was attributable primarily to increases of $8.7 million, $6.6 million and $2.0 million in our Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific markets, respectively. International maintenance revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $5.1 million, or 1.1%, over fiscal 2010, due to a $5.8 million increase in ESM maintenance revenue, partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in MSM maintenance revenue. The ESM maintenance revenue increase was attributable primarily to increases of $4.4 million and $1.7 million in our Asia Pacific and Canada markets, respectively. The MSM maintenance revenue decrease was attributable to decreases of $5.3 million and $1.4 million in our EMEA and Latin America markets, respectively, partially offset by increases of $4.2 million and $1.8 million in our Asia Pacific and Canada markets, respectively. Professional Services Revenue Professional services revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $37.2 million, or 21.1%, over fiscal 2011, which is reflective of a $17.7 million, or 20.6%, increase in domestic professional services revenue and a $19.5 million, or 21.5%, increase in international professional services revenue. These increases were attributable primarily to increases in implementation, consulting and education services revenue period over period, including increased demand for cloud implementations. Professional services revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $47.5 million, or 36.8%, over fiscal 2010, which is reflective of a $26.1 million, or 43.6%, increase in domestic professional services revenue and a $21.4 million, or 30.9%, increase in international professional services revenue. These increases were attributable primarily to increases in implementation, consulting and education services revenue period over period, principally due to the expansion of our ESM business. 29 Operating Expenses Percentage Change 2012 2011 Year Ended March 31, Compared Compared 2012 2011 2010 to 2011 to 2010 (In millions) Cost of license revenue $ 158.4 $ 129.8 $ 115.5 22.0 % 12.4 % Cost of maintenance revenue 198.5 169.4 158.3 17.2 % 7.0 % Cost of professional services revenue 212.0 186.0 137.7 14.0 % 35.1 % Selling and marketing expenses 634.0 611.4 558.0 3.7 % 9.6 % Research and development expenses 165.2 181.6 195.9 (9.0 )% (7.3 )% General and administrative expenses 217.9 220.7 207.0 (1.3 )% 6.6 % Amortization of intangible assets 42.1 33.6 32.7 25.3 % 2.8 % Total operating expenses $ 1,628.1 $ 1,532.5 $ 1,405.1 6.2 % 9.1 % We estimate that the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our international operating expenses resulted in an approximate $14 million increase in fiscal 2012 operating expenses as compared to fiscal 2011 and an approximate $2 million reduction in fiscal 2011 operating expenses as compared to fiscal 2010, on a constant currency basis. Cost of License Revenue Cost of license revenue consists primarily of the amortization of capitalized software costs for internally developed products, the amortization of acquired technology for products acquired through business combinations, license based royalties to third parties and production and distribution costs for initial product licenses. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, cost of license revenue was $158.4 million, or 7.3%, $129.8 million, or 6.3%, and $115.5 million, or 6.0%, of total revenue, respectively, and 18.0%, 15.0% and 15.2% of license revenue, respectively. Cost of license revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $28.6 million, or 22.0%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable primarily to an $18.6 million increase in the amortization of capitalized software development costs and a $10.0 million increase in the amortization of acquired technology. The increase in the amortization of capitalized software development costs is related to increases in the amount of costs capitalized in prior periods related to development activities, and represents an increased investment in software development due to the growth of our business. Cost of license revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $14.3 million, or 12.4%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable primarily to an $11.9 million increase in the amortization of capitalized software development costs and a $1.7 million increase in the amortization of acquired technology. The increase in the amortization of capitalized software development costs is related to increases in the amount of costs capitalized in prior periods related to development activities, and represents an increased investment in software development due to the growth of our business. Cost of Maintenance Revenue Cost of maintenance revenue consists primarily of the costs associated with customer support and research and development personnel that provide maintenance, enhancement and support services to our customers, as well as internal and third party infrastructure hosting and support costs associated with our SaaS offerings. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, cost of maintenance revenue was $198.5 million, or 9.1%, $169.4 million, or 8.2%, and $158.3 million, or 8.3%, of total revenue, respectively, and 18.4%, 16.5% and 15.5% of maintenance revenue, respectively. Cost of maintenance revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $29.1 million, or 17.2%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable to a $7.3 million increase in third party maintenance outsourcing costs, a $5.5 million increase in personnel costs, including third party subcontracting fees, a $5.4 million increase in share based compensation expense, a $4.3 million increase related to the early exit of a long term service contract, a $3.5 million increase in third party SaaS hosting and support costs and a $3.1 million net increase in other expenses. Cost of maintenance revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $11.1 million, or 7.0%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to a $6.2 million increase in personnel costs, including third party subcontracting fees, a $1.9 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $3.0 million net increase in other expenses. 30 Cost of Professional Services Revenue Cost of professional services revenue consists primarily of salaries, related personnel costs and third party subcontracting fees associated with implementation, consulting and education services that we provide to our customers and the related infrastructure to support this business. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, cost of professional services revenue was $212.0 million, or 9.8%, $186.0 million, or 9.0%, and $137.7 million, or 7.2%, of total revenue, respectively, and 99.2%, 105.3% and 106.7% of professional services revenue, respectively. Cost of professional services revenue in fiscal 2012 increased by $26.0 million, or 14.0%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable primarily to a $19.7 million increase in personnel and related costs and a $5.7 million increase in third party subcontracting fees, commensurate with increases in professional services revenue. Cost of professional services revenue in fiscal 2011 increased by $48.3 million, or 35.1%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to a $31.3 million increase in third party subcontracting fees, a $13.9 million increase in personnel and related costs, a $1.2 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $1.9 million net increase in other expenses, commensurate with increases in professional services revenue. Selling and Marketing Expenses Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, related personnel costs, sales commissions and costs associated with advertising, marketing, industry trade shows and sales seminars. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, selling and marketing expenses were $634.0 million, or 29.2%, $611.4 million, or 29.6%, and $558.0 million, or 29.2%, of total revenue, respectively. Selling and marketing expenses in fiscal 2012 increased by $22.6 million, or 3.7%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable to a $14.2 million increase in sales personnel and related costs, principally due to an increase in variable compensation expense attributable to increased revenue as well as an increase in sales personnel headcount, a $9.1 million increase in marketing campaign expenditures, a $4.6 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $1.5 million net increase in other expenses, partially offset by a $4.1 million decrease in third party consulting fees and a $2.7 million decrease in legal costs relating to a fiscal 2011 matter. Selling and marketing expenses in fiscal 2011 increased by $53.4 million, or 9.6%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to a $50.4 million increase in sales personnel and related costs, principally due to an increase in variable compensation expense attributable to increased revenue as well as an increase in sales personnel headcount, a $3.5 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $2.7 million increase in legal costs relating to a fiscal 2011 matter, partially offset by a $3.2 million net decrease in other expenses. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, related personnel costs and third party subcontracting fees related to software developers and development support personnel, including product management, software programmers, testing and quality assurance personnel and writers of technical documentation, such as product manuals and installation guides. These expenses also include computer hardware and software costs, telecommunications costs and personnel costs associated with our development and production labs. For fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, research and development expenses were $165.2 million, or 7.6%, $181.6 million, or 8.8%, and $195.9 million, or 10.3%, of total revenue, respectively. Research and development expenses in fiscal 2012 decreased by $16.4 million, or 9.0%, from fiscal 2011. This decrease reflects a $19.8 million increase in capitalized research and development costs related to software development projects, due to the scope and timing of several key future product releases, a $1.8 million decrease in equipment expense, a $1.7 million decrease in facilities expenses and a $3.1 million net decrease in other expenses, partially offset by a $7.2 million increase in personnel and related costs and a $2.8 million increase in share based compensation expense. Research and development expenses in fiscal 2011 decreased by $14.3 million, or 7.3%, from fiscal 2010. This decrease was attributable primarily to a $35.7 million increase in capitalized research and development costs resulting from additional internal investments made in new products, including the expansion of our BSM solution offerings, partially offset by a $22.0 million increase in research and development personnel costs. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and related personnel costs of executive management, finance and accounting, facilities management, legal and human resources. Other costs included in general and administrative expenses include fees paid for outside accounting and legal services, consulting projects and insurance. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, general and administrative expenses were $217.9 million, or 10.0%, $220.7 million, or 10.7%, and $207.0 million, or 10.8%, of total revenue, respectively. 31 General and administrative expenses in fiscal 2012 decreased by $2.8 million, or 1.3%, from fiscal 2011. This decrease was attributable to an $8.2 million decrease in personnel costs, principally due to a decrease in variable compensation expense, and a $3.5 million decrease in facilities expenses, partially offset by a $6.4 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $2.5 million net increase in other expenses. General and administrative expenses in fiscal 2011 increased by $13.7 million, or 6.6%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable to a $9.7 million increase in share based compensation expense and a $7.1 million increase in personnel costs, principally due to an increase in variable compensation expense, partially offset by a $3.1 million net decrease in other expenses. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets consists of the amortization of customer relationships and other intangible assets recorded in connection with our business combinations. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, amortization of intangible assets was $42.1 million, $33.6 million and $32.7 million, respectively. Amortization of intangible assets in fiscal 2012 increased by $8.5 million, or 25.3%, over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable primarily to amortization associated with intangible assets acquired in connection with our fiscal 2011 and 2012 acquisitions. Amortization of intangible assets in fiscal 2011 increased by $0.9 million, or 2.8%, over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable primarily to amortization associated with intangible assets acquired in connection with our fiscal 2010 and 2011 acquisitions, partially offset by a reduction in amortization associated with intangible assets acquired in connection with past acquisitions that became fully amortized. Other Income (Loss), Net Other income (loss), net, consists primarily of interest earned, realized gains and losses on investments and interest expense on our senior unsecured notes due 2018 and 2022 and capital leases. Other income (loss), net, for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 consisted of losses of $13.9 million, $1.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively. The change in other income (loss), net for fiscal 2012 was attributable to a $4.5 million reduction in net gains on investments primarily due to market declines on our trading securities, a $4.4 million reduction in interest and other income primarily due to a reduction in interest on our financed accounts receivable and a $3.5 million increase in interest expense primarily due to the issuance of our senior unsecured notes due 2022. Other income (loss), net, for fiscal 2011 remained relatively flat as compared to fiscal 2010. Provision for Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $129.0 million, $75.1 million and $98.1 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 24.3%, 14.1% and 19.5%, respectively. Our effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to favorable tax rates associated with earnings from lower tax rate jurisdictions throughout the world and our policy of indefinitely reinvesting earnings from certain jurisdictions (primarily in Europe), as well as due to additional accruals, changes in estimates, releases and settlements with taxing authorities related to our uncertain tax positions and benefits associated with income attributable to both domestic production activities and the extraterritorial income exclusion. The overall favorable effects of foreign tax rates on our effective tax rate were 7.7%, 10.3% and 5.9% of pre tax earnings for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We also recorded discrete net tax benefits of $6.2 million, $57.2 million and $30.0 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters which favorably impacted our effective tax rate by 1.2%, 10.8% and 6.0% of pre tax earnings, respectively. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate on an annual basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory rates. 32 Non GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding our results as determined by GAAP, we disclose various non GAAP financial measures in our quarterly earnings press releases and other public disclosures. The primary non GAAP financial measures we focus on are: (i) non GAAP operating income, (ii) non GAAP net earnings, and (iii) non GAAP diluted earnings per share. Each of these financial measures excludes the impact of certain items and therefore has not been calculated in accordance with GAAP. These non GAAP financial measures exclude share based compensation expense; the amortization of intangible assets; severance, exit costs and related charges; as well as the related tax impacts of these items; and certain discrete tax items. Each of the non GAAP adjustments is described in more detail below. A reconciliation of each of these non GAAP financial measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure is also included below. We believe that these non GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results because they exclude amounts that BMC management and the Board of Directors do not consider part of core operating results when assessing the performance of the organization. In addition, we have historically reported similar non GAAP financial measures, and we believe that inclusion of these non GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with past reports of financial results. Accordingly, we believe these non GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management. While we believe that these non GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, there are limitations associated with the use of these non GAAP financial measures. These non GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. Items such as share based compensation expense; the amortization of intangible assets; severance, exit costs and related charges; as well as the related tax impacts of these items; and certain discrete tax items that are excluded from our non GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on net earnings. As a result, these non GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, net earnings, cash flow from operations or other measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by using these non GAAP financial measures as supplements to GAAP financial measures and by reconciling the non GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliations of these non GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures below. 33 For a detailed explanation of the adjustments made to comparable GAAP financial measures, the reasons why management uses these measures and the usefulness of these measures, see items (1) (5) below. Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Operating income: GAAP operating income $ 543.9 $ 532.8 $ 506.1 Share based compensation expense (1) 127.2 106.5 88.9 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 97.7 79.1 76.5 Severance, exit costs and related charges (3) 10.8 14.3 3.0 Non GAAP operating income $ 779.6 $ 732.7 $ 674.5 Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Net earnings: GAAP net earnings $ 401.0 $ 456.2 $ 406.1 Share based compensation expense (1) 127.2 106.5 88.9 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 97.7 79.1 76.5 Severance, exit costs and related charges (3) 10.8 14.3 3.0 Provision for income taxes on above pre tax non GAAP adjustments (4) (68.4 ) (52.7 ) (48.5 ) Certain discrete tax items (5) (6.2 ) (57.2 ) (30.0 ) Non GAAP net earnings $ 562.1 $ 546.2 $ 496.0 Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 Diluted earnings per share*: GAAP diluted earnings per share $ 2.32 $ 2.50 $ 2.17 Share based compensation expense (1) 0.74 0.58 0.48 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 0.57 0.43 0.41 Severance, exit costs and related charges (3) 0.06 0.08 0.02 Provision for income taxes on above pre tax non GAAP adjustments (4) (0.40 ) (0.29 ) (0.26 ) Certain discrete tax items (5) (0.04 ) (0.31 ) (0.16 ) Non GAAP diluted earnings per share* $ 3.25 $ 2.99 $ 2.66 * Non GAAP diluted earnings per share is computed independently for each period presented. The sum of GAAP diluted earnings per share and non GAAP adjustments per share may not equal non GAAP diluted earnings per share due to rounding differences. (1) Share based compensation expense. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude the compensation expenses required to be recorded by GAAP for equity awards to employees and directors. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating corporate performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non GAAP financial measures, excluding expenses related to share based compensation, because these costs are generally fixed at the time an award is granted, are then expensed over several years and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management once granted. (2) Amortization of intangible assets. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude costs associated with the amortization of intangible assets, which are included in cost of license revenue and amortization of intangible assets in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating corporate performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non GAAP financial measures, excluding amortization of intangible assets, because these costs are fixed at the time of an acquisition, are then amortized over a period of several years after the acquisition and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the acquisition. 34 (3) Severance, exit costs and related charges. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude severance, exit costs and related charges, and any subsequent changes in estimates, as they relate to our corporate restructuring and exit activities. Management and the Board of Directors believe it is useful in evaluating corporate performance during a particular time period to review the supplemental non GAAP financial measures, excluding severance, exit costs and related charges, in order to provide comparability and consistency with historical operating results. (4) Provision for income taxes on above pre tax non GAAP adjustments. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude the tax impact of the above pre tax non GAAP adjustments. This amount is calculated using the tax rates of each country to which these pre tax non GAAP adjustments relate. Management excludes the non GAAP adjustments on a net of tax basis in evaluating our performance. Therefore, we exclude the tax impact of these charges when presenting non GAAP financial measures. (5) Certain discrete tax items. Our non GAAP financial measures exclude net tax benefits of $6.2 million, $57.2 million and $30.0 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with tax authority settlements related to prior years tax matters. Management excludes the impact of these items in evaluating our performance. Therefore, we exclude these items when presenting non GAAP financial measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2012, we had $1.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents and investments, approximately 60% of which was held by our international subsidiaries and was largely generated from our international operations. Our international operations have generated $615.8 million of earnings that we have determined will be invested indefinitely in those operations. If such earnings were to be repatriated, we would incur a United States federal income tax liability that is not currently accrued in our financial statements. We also had outstanding letters of credit, performance bonds and similar instruments at March 31, 2012 of approximately $44.6 million primarily in support of performance obligations to various customers, but also related to facilities and other obligations. At March 31, 2012 and 2011, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $29.3 million and $29.8 million, respectively, which were classified as available for sale. The total estimated fair value of our auction rate securities was $26.9 million and $27.2 million at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our auction rate securities consist entirely of bonds issued by public agencies that are backed by student loans with at least a 97% guarantee by the federal government under the United States Department of Educations Federal Family Education Loan Program. All of these bonds are currently rated investment grade by Moodys or Standard and Poors. Auctions for these securities began failing in early 2008 and have continued to fail, resulting in our continuing to hold such securities and the issuers paying interest at the maximum contractual rates. We do not believe that any of the underlying issuers of these auction rate securities are presently at risk of default or that the underlying credit quality of the assets backing the auction rate security investments has been impacted by the reduced liquidity of these investments. Due to the illiquidity in the auction rate securities market caused by failed auctions, we estimated the fair value of these securities and the put option discussed below using internally developed models of the expected cash flows of the securities on a discounted basis. These models incorporate assumptions about the expected cash flows of the underlying student loans discounted at an estimate of the rate of return required by investors, which includes an adjustment to reflect a lack of liquidity in the market for these securities. Periodically, the issuers of certain of our auction rate securities have redeemed portions of our holdings at par value plus accrued interest. During fiscal 2012 and 2011, issuers redeemed available for sale holdings of $0.5 million par value and $20.9 million par value, respectively, and trading holdings of $5.4 million par value during fiscal 2011. On July 1, 2010, we exercised our right under a put agreement with a bank from which we acquired certain auction rate securities to put the remaining securities subject to this agreement, with $11.2 million par value, to the bank. In February 2012, we issued $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes due 2022. Net proceeds to us after original issuance discount and issuance costs amounted to $493.3 million. These senior notes were issued at an original issuance discount of $2.7 million. These senior notes bear interest at a rate of 4.25% per annum, payable semi annually in February and August of each year. These senior notes are redeemable at our option at any time in whole or, from time to time, in part at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of these senior notes to be redeemed, or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted at the applicable United States Treasury rate plus 35 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest. These senior notes are subject to the provisions of an indenture which includes covenants limiting, among other things, the creation of liens securing indebtedness and sale leaseback transactions. In November 2010, we entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders providing for an unsecured revolving credit facility in an amount up to $400.0 million which is scheduled to expire on November 30, 2014 (the Credit Facility). Subject to certain conditions, at any time prior to maturity, we may invite existing and new lenders to increase the size of the Credit Facility up to a maximum of $600.0 million. The Credit Facility includes provisions for swing line loans of up to $25.0 million and standby letters of credit of up to $50.0 million. Revolving loans under the Credit Facility bear interest, at the Companys option, at a rate equal to either (i) the base rate (as defined) plus a margin based on the credit ratings of BMCs senior notes, or (ii) the LIBOR rate (as defined) plus a margin based on the credit ratings of BMCs senior notes, for interest periods of one, two, three or six months. As of March 31, 2012 and through May 10, 2012, we have not borrowed any funds under the Credit Facility. 35 In June 2008, we issued $300.0 million of senior unsecured notes due 2018. Net proceeds to us after original issuance discount and issuance costs amounted to $295.6 million. These senior notes were issued at an original issuance discount of $1.8 million. These senior notes bear interest at a rate of 7.25% per annum, payable semi annually in June and December of each year. These senior notes are redeemable at our option at any time in whole or, from time to time, in part at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of these senior notes to be redeemed, or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted at the applicable United States Treasury rate plus 50 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest. These senior notes are subject to the provisions of an indenture which includes covenants limiting, among other things, the creation of liens securing indebtedness and sale leaseback transactions. We believe that our existing cash and investment balances, funds generated from operating activities and available credit under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our working and other capital requirements for the foreseeable future. In the normal course of business, we evaluate the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with or investing in these businesses. We may elect to use available cash and investments to fund such activities in the future. In the event additional needs for cash arise, we might find it advantageous to utilize third party financing sources based on factors such as our then available cash and its source (i.e., cash held in the United States versus international locations), the cost of financing and our internal cost of capital. We may from time to time seek to repurchase or retire securities, including outstanding borrowings and equity securities, in open market repurchases, unsolicited or solicited privately negotiated transactions or in such other manner as will comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the rules and regulations thereunder. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements and contractual restrictions, if applicable. The amount of repurchases, which is subject to management discretion, may be material and may change from period to period. Our cash flows during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 were: Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 800.3 $ 765.2 $ 635.4 Net cash used in investing activities (665.9 ) (147.6 ) (159.3 ) Net cash used in financing activities (282.0 ) (340.9 ) (158.7 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (16.4 ) 15.6 27.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (164.0 ) $ 292.3 $ 345.3 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2012 increased by $35.1 million over fiscal 2011, attributable primarily to the net impact of working capital changes, partially offset by a decrease in net earnings before non cash expenses (principally depreciation, amortization, share based compensation expense and deferred income tax provision). Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2011 increased by $129.8 million over fiscal 2010, attributable primarily to an increase in net earnings before non cash expenses (principally depreciation, amortization, share based compensation expense and deferred income tax provision) as well as the net impact of working capital changes. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2012 increased by $518.3 million over fiscal 2011. This increase was attributable primarily to an increase in cash expended for acquisitions, a decrease in proceeds from the maturities and sales of investments, an increase in investment purchases and an increase in capitalization of software development costs. Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2011 decreased by $11.7 million from fiscal 2010. This decrease was attributable primarily to a decrease in investment purchases and in cash expended for acquisitions, offset by a decrease in proceeds from the maturities of investments and an increase in capitalization of software development costs. 36 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2012 decreased by $58.9 million from fiscal 2011. This decrease was attributable primarily to an increase in proceeds from borrowings, partially offset by an increase in treasury stock acquired and a decrease in proceeds from stock option exercises. Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2011 increased by $182.2 million over fiscal 2010. This increase was attributable primarily to an increase in treasury stock acquired and a decrease in proceeds from borrowings, offset by an increase in proceeds from stock option exercises. Trade Finance Receivables We provide financing on a portion of our sales transactions to customers that meet our standards of creditworthiness. We believe our practice of providing financing at reasonable market interest rates enhances our competitive position. We participate in established programs with third party financial institutions and sell a significant portion of our finance receivables to such institutions on a non recourse basis, enabling us to collect cash on a timely basis while fully transferring credit risk of customer default to third party financial institutions. We record transfers of finance receivables to third party financial institutions as sales of such finance receivables when we have surrendered control of such receivables (including determining that such assets have been isolated beyond our reach and the reach of our creditors) and when we do not have significant continuing involvement in the generation of cash flows due the financial institutions. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, we transferred $227.9 million, $172.3 million and $208.8 million, respectively, of such receivables through these programs. Treasury Stock Purchases Our Board of Directors has authorized a total of $5.0 billion to repurchase common stock. During fiscal 2012, we repurchased 19.2 million shares for $780.5 million. From the inception of the stock repurchase authorization through March 31, 2012, we have purchased 152.0 million shares for $4.1 billion. At March 31, 2012, there was $850.2 million remaining in the stock repurchase program, which does not have an expiration date. In addition, during fiscal 2012, we repurchased 0.9 million shares for $38.2 million to satisfy employee tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of share based awards. The repurchase of stock will continue to be funded primarily with cash generated from domestic operations, and therefore, affects our overall domestic versus international liquidity balances. See Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities above for a monthly detail of treasury stock purchases for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. Contractual Obligations The following is a summary of our contractual obligations at March 31, 2012: Less Than1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5Years Total (In millions) Senior unsecured notes (1) $ 43.0 $ 86.0 $ 86.0 $ 938.9 $ 1,153.9 Capital lease obligations (1) 8.9 10.9 19.8 Operating lease obligations 41.9 53.1 13.9 7.3 116.2 Purchase obligations (2) 8.6 8.7 17.3 Other long term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet (1) 14.4 15.6 30.0 Total contractual obligations (3)(4) $ 116.8 $ 174.3 $ 99.9 $ 946.2 $ 1,337.2 (1) Represents contractual amounts due, including interest. (2) Represents obligations under agreements with non cancelable terms to purchase goods or services. The agreements are enforceable and legally binding, and contain specific terms, including quantities to be purchased and the timing of the purchase. (3) Total does not include contractual obligations recorded on the balance sheet as current liabilities, other than capital lease obligations and other long term liabilities above. (4) We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when cash settlement with taxing authorities will occur for our unrecognized tax benefits due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. Therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $90.5 million, including interest and penalties, is not included in the table above. 37 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. On an on going basis, we make and evaluate estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, capitalized software development costs, share based compensation, goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of investments and accounting for income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances; the results of which form the basis for making judgments about amounts and timing of revenue and expenses, the carrying values of assets and the recorded amounts of liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such estimates may change if the underlying conditions or assumptions change. We have discussed the development and selection of the critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the related disclosures below. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue principally from software related arrangements consisting of software license, maintenance and professional services offerings and non software arrangements consisting of our SaaS offerings. We commence revenue recognition when all of the following core revenue recognition criteria are satisfied: i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; ii) delivery of the license or service has occurred or is occurring; iii) the arrangement fee is fixed or determinable; and iv) collection of the arrangement fee is probable. Software License, Maintenance and Professional Services Arrangements Software license revenue is recognized when the core revenue recognition criteria above are satisfied and vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of the fair value of undelivered elements exists. As substantially all of our software licenses are sold in multiple element arrangements that include either maintenance or both maintenance and professional services, we use the residual method to determine the amount of license revenue to be recognized. Under the residual method, consideration is allocated to undelivered elements based upon VSOE of the fair value of those elements, with the residual of the arrangement fee allocated to and recognized as license revenue. We have established VSOE of the fair value of maintenance through independent maintenance renewals. These demonstrate a consistent relationship of pricing maintenance as a percentage of either the net license fee or the discounted or undiscounted license list price. VSOE of the fair value of professional services is established based on daily rates when sold on a stand alone basis, as well as management approved pricing for certain new offerings. We are unable to establish VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements in certain arrangements that include multiple software products for which the associated maintenance pricing is based on a combination of undiscounted license list prices, net license fees or discounted license list prices. We are also unable to establish VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements in certain arrangements that include unlimited licensing rights and certain arrangements that contain rights to future unspecified software products as part of the maintenance offering. If VSOE of fair value of one or more undelivered elements does not exist, license revenue is deferred and recognized upon delivery of those elements or when VSOE of fair value exists for all remaining undelivered elements, or if the deferral is due to the factors described above, license revenue is recognized ratably over the longest expected delivery period of undelivered elements in the arrangement, which is typically the longest maintenance term. In our time based license agreements, we are unable to establish VSOE of fair value for undelivered maintenance elements because the contractual maintenance terms in these arrangements are the same duration as the license terms, and VSOE of fair value of maintenance cannot be established. Accordingly, license fees in time based license arrangements are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangements. Maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the contractual terms of the maintenance arrangements, which primarily range from one to three years and in some instances can extend up to five or more years. Professional services revenue, which principally relates to implementation, integration and education services associated with our products, is derived under both time and material and fixed fee arrangements and in most instances is recognized on a proportional performance basis based on days of effort. If no discernable customer deliverable exists until the completion of the professional services, we apply the completed performance method and defer the recognition of professional services revenue until completion of the services, which is typically evidenced by a signed completion letter from the customer. Services that are sold in connection with software license arrangements generally qualify for separate accounting from the license elements because they do not involve significant production, modification or customization of our products and are not otherwise considered to be essential to the functionality of such products. In arrangements where the professional services do not qualify for separate accounting from the license elements, the combined software license and professional services revenue are recognized based on contract accounting using either the percentage of completion or completed contract method. 38 SaaS Arrangements SaaS subscription fees are recognized ratably over the contractual terms of the subscription arrangements beginning on the date that the service is made available to customers. Additional professional services fees, principally related to optional services engagements that are not essential to the functionality of our core SaaS offerings and are considered to have standalone value, are generally recognized on a proportional performance basis based on days of effort. In our consolidated financial statements, SaaS subscription revenue and optional professional services revenue are included in maintenance and professional services revenue, respectively. To date, SaaS and related professional services revenues have not represented a significant percentage of our total revenue in any period since our SaaS offerings were first introduced to the market in late fiscal 2010. Other Revenue Recognition Considerations In arrangements containing both software and non software (e.g., SaaS) elements, which to date have been infrequent, we allocate the arrangement consideration first into software and non software units of accounting based on a relative selling price hierarchy and then apply the applicable software and non software revenue recognition criteria to each unit of accounting. To date, we have determined the relative selling price of software and non software units of accounting based on managements best estimate of selling price as other means of determining relative selling price (e.g., VSOE or other third party evidence) have not been available with respect to all of the components in bundled software and non software arrangements. We also execute arrangements through resellers, distributors and systems integrators (collectively, channel partners) in which the channel partners act as the principals in the transactions with the end users of our products and services. In license arrangements with channel partners, title and risk of loss pass to the channel partners upon execution of our arrangements with them and the delivery of our products to the channel partner or the end user. We recognize revenue from transactions with channel partners on a net basis (the amount actually received by us from the channel partners) when all other revenue recognition criteria are satisfied. We do not offer right of return, product rotation or price protection to any of our channel partners. Revenue from financed customer transactions are generally recognized in the same manner as those requiring current payment, as we have a history of offering installment contracts to customers and successfully enforcing original payment terms without making concessions. In arrangements where the fees are not considered to be fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue when payments become due under the arrangement. If we determine that a transaction is not probable of collection or a risk of concession exists, we do not recognize revenue in excess of the amount of cash received. We are required to charge certain taxes on our revenue transactions. These amounts are not included in revenue. Instead, we record a liability when the amounts are collected and relieve the liability when payments are made to the applicable government agency. In our consolidated statements of comprehensive income, revenue is categorized as license, maintenance or professional services revenue. We allocate revenue from arrangements containing multiple elements to each of these categories based on the VSOE of fair value for elements in each revenue arrangement and the application of the residual method for arrangements in which we have established VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements. In arrangements where we are not able to establish VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements, we first allocate revenue to any undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has been established, then allocate revenue to any undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has not been established based upon managements best estimate of fair value of those undelivered elements and apply a residual method to determine the license fee. Managements best estimate of fair value of undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has not been established is based upon the VSOE of similar offerings and other objective criteria. Capitalized Software Development Costs Costs of internally developed software are expensed until the technological feasibility of the software product has been established. Thereafter, software development costs are capitalized until the product is generally available to customers in accordance with relevant accounting standards. Judgment is involved in determining the point at which technological feasibility is reached. If different judgments were made, they could result in a different amount of costs that are capitalized. Capitalized software development costs are then amortized using the greater of an amount determined by the ratio of current revenues recognized to the total anticipated revenues for a product or straight line over the products estimated economic life beginning at the date of general availability of the product to our customers. We evaluate our capitalized software development costs at each balance sheet date to determine if the unamortized balance related to any given product exceeds the estimated net realizable value of that product. Any such excess is written off through accelerated amortization in the quarter in which it is identified. Determining net realizable value requires that we make estimates and use judgment in quantifying the appropriate amount to write off, if any. Actual amounts realized from the sales of software products could differ from our estimates. Also, any future changes to our product portfolio could result in significant increases to our cost of license revenue as a result of the impairment of capitalized software development costs or acquired technology. 39 Share Based Compensation Share based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as compensation expense on a straight line basis over the requisite service period of the award, which is generally the vesting period. We estimate the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase plan awards using the Black Scholes option pricing model. We use the fair value of the Companys common stock at the date of grant as an estimate of fair value for time based nonvested stock units, and we utilize Monte Carlo simulation models to estimate the fair value of certain market based nonvested stock units. The fair values of share based awards determined on the date of grant using a fair value model are impacted by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These assumptions include our expected stock price volatility, the risk free interest rate over the expected term of the awards and expected stock price volatilities of the NASDAQ 100 Index used in our Monte Carlo simulation models. We estimate the volatility of our stock price using a combination of both historical volatility and implied volatility derived from market traded options for our stock, as we believe that the combined volatility is more representative of future stock price volatility than either historical or implied volatility alone. We estimate the risk free interest rate based on zero coupon yields implied from United States Treasury issues with maturities similar to the expected term of the awards. We estimate the expected term of options granted using the simplified method allowed by relevant accounting standards, due to changes in vesting terms and contractual lives of our current options compared to our historical grants. We have never paid cash dividends and do not currently intend to pay cash dividends, and therefore we assume an expected dividend yield of zero in the valuation models. We estimate potential forfeitures of share based awards at the time of grant and record compensation expense for those awards expected to vest. The estimate of forfeitures is reassessed over the requisite service period and, to the extent that actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from such estimates, compensation expense is adjusted through a cumulative catch up adjustment in the period of change and the remaining unrecognized share based compensation expense is recorded over the remaining requisite service period. We use historical data to estimate prevesting forfeitures and record share based compensation expense for those awards that are expected to vest. If we use different assumptions for estimating share based compensation expense in future periods or if actual forfeitures differ materially from our estimated forfeitures, the amount of such expense recorded in future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. We record deferred tax assets for share based awards that we believe will result in deductions on our income tax returns, based on the amount of share based compensation expense recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which we will receive a tax deduction. Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on our income tax returns are recorded in additional paid in capital. If the tax deduction is less than the deferred tax asset, such shortfalls reduce our pool of excess tax benefits. If the pool of excess tax benefits is reduced to zero, then subsequent shortfalls would increase our income tax expense. Goodwill and Intangible Assets When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price is typically allocated to acquired technology and other identifiable intangible assets, such as customer relationships. The excess of our cost over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The amounts allocated to acquired technology and other intangible assets represent our estimates of their fair values at the acquisition date. The fair values are primarily estimated using the expected present value of future cash flows method of applying the income approach, which requires us to project the related future revenue and expenses and apply an appropriate discount rate. We amortize the acquired technology and other intangible assets with finite lives over their estimated useful lives. All goodwill is assessed for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value has been reduced below carrying value. When conducting our annual goodwill impairment assessment, we initially perform a qualitative evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired in order to determine the need to perform the two step impairment test. If we determine by a qualitative evaluation that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, we conduct a quantitative assessment of impairment which requires us to estimate future cash flows. The estimates used in valuing all intangible assets and assessing useful lives are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Accordingly, actual results may differ from the projected results used to determine fair value and to estimate useful lives. Incorrect estimates of fair value and or useful lives could result in future impairment charges and those charges could be material to our results of operations. 40 Valuation of Investments Our investments consist of debt and equity securities. We classify our investments in equity securities that have readily determinable fair values and all debt securities as held to maturity, available for sale or trading at acquisition and reevaluate such classification at each subsequent balance sheet date. We do not have any investments classified as held to maturity at March 31, 2012 or 2011. Our available for sale and trading securities are recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized gains or losses on available for sale securities are recorded, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), unless an impairment is considered to be other than temporary. Other than temporary unrealized losses on available for sale securities are generally recorded in gain (loss) on investments, net, in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income unless certain criteria are met. In addition, unrealized gains and losses on trading securities and all realized gains and losses are recorded in gain (loss) on investments, net, in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. We account for our investments in non marketable equity securities where we do not have significant influence and that do not have a readily determinable fair value under the cost method of accounting. We regularly analyze our portfolio of available for sale and cost method investments for other than temporary declines in fair value. This analysis requires significant judgment as well as the use of estimates and assumptions. The primary factors considered when determining if a charge must be recorded because a decline in the fair value of an investment is other than temporary include whether: (i) the fair value of the investment is significantly below our cost basis; (ii) the financial condition of the issuer of the security has deteriorated; (iii) if a debt security, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the security; (iv) the decline in fair value has existed for an extended period of time; (v) if a debt security, such security has been downgraded by a rating agency; and (vi) whether we have the intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. We have investment policies which are designed to ensure that our assets are invested in capital preserving securities. However, from time to time, issuer specific and market specific events could warrant a write down for an other than temporary decline in fair value. At March 31, 2012, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $29.3 million and an estimated fair value of $26.9 million. Our auction rate securities consist entirely of bonds issued by public agencies that are backed by student loans with at least a 97% guarantee by the federal government under the United States Department of Educations Federal Family Education Loan Program. All of these bonds are currently rated investment grade by Moodys or Standard and Poors. Auctions for these securities began failing in early 2008 and have continued to fail, resulting in our continuing to hold such securities and the issuers paying interest at the maximum contractual rates. We do not believe that any of the underlying issuers of these auction rate securities are presently at risk of default or that the underlying credit quality of the assets backing the auction rate security investments has been impacted by the reduced liquidity of these investments. Due to the illiquidity in the auction rate securities market caused by failed auctions, we estimated the fair value of these securities using internally developed models of the expected cash flows of the securities. These models incorporate assumptions about the cash flows of the underlying student loans and estimates of the rate of return required by investors, which includes an adjustment to reflect a lack of liquidity in the market for these securities. As the vast majority of our investments are investment grade securities, we anticipate that any future impairment charges related to these investments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Investments in debt and equity securities with a fair value below our cost at March 31, 2012 are discussed in greater detail in Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Accounting for Income Taxes Income tax expense or benefit is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current years results and for deferred tax assets and liabilities related to the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities and the process of identifying items of revenue and expense that qualify for preferential tax treatment. We are subject to corporate income tax audits in multiple jurisdictions and our income tax expense includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that may result from the examination of our tax returns that have been filed in these jurisdictions. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters could be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net earnings in the period in which such determination is made. Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no United States taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Remittances of foreign earnings to the United States are planned based on projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of foreign and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount that will be distributed to the United States and provide United States federal taxes on these amounts. Material changes in our estimates could impact our effective tax rate. 41 In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We consider future market growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In December 2010 and in September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued updated guidance relating to the annual goodwill impairment test. This new guidance incorporates additional qualitative assessments at two discrete points in the goodwill impairment evaluation. First, entities are now permitted to perform an initial qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired in order to determine the need to perform the previously required two step impairment test. This new guidance was early adopted by us for our fiscal 2012 annual goodwill impairment test. Additionally, as part of step one of the two step impairment test, entities are required to perform a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired in situations where reporting units have a carrying value that is zero or negative. If the qualitative evaluation determines that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, step two of the goodwill impairment test is required to be performed to determine the amount of impairment, if any. This guidance was effective for us beginning with our fiscal 2012 goodwill impairment test. Neither set of guidance had a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In May 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance for fair value measurements, primarily clarifying existing guidance and adding new disclosure requirements for Level 3 fair value measurements. This guidance requires entities to disclose quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in Level 3 measurements, and to provide additional qualitative information regarding the valuation process in place for Level 3 measurements and the sensitivity of recurring Level 3 fair value measurements to changes in unobservable inputs used. This new guidance was effective for us beginning with our fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and did not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In October 2009, the FASB issued new revenue recognition guidance for arrangements that include both software and non software related deliverables. This guidance requires entities to allocate the overall consideration to each deliverable by using a best estimate of the selling price of individual deliverables in the arrangement in the absence of vendor specific objective evidence or other third party evidence of the selling price. Additionally, the guidance modifies the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across the separately identified deliverables by no longer permitting the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration. The new guidance was effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and did not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In December 2011, the FASB issued guidance requiring new disclosures regarding balance sheet offsetting. This guidance requires entities to disclose the gross amounts of certain recognized financial assets and liabilities, to reconcile these amounts to the net positions recognized in the balance sheet and to provide qualitative disclosures about the rights of offset relating to these financial assets and liabilities. This new disclosure guidance is effective for us beginning with our first quarter of fiscal 2014. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We are exposed to a variety of risks, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the impact of changes in interest rates on our investments and long term borrowings and changes in market prices of our debt and equity securities. In the normal course of business, we employ established policies and procedures to manage these risks including the use of derivative instruments. The hypothetical changes noted in the sections immediately below are based on sensitivity analyses performed at March 31, 2012. Actual results could differ materially. 42 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk We use derivatives to hedge those current net assets and liabilities that, when re measured in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, impact our consolidated statement of operations. Foreign currency forward contracts are utilized in these hedging programs. All foreign currency forward contracts entered into by us are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing exposure, not for speculation or trading purposes. Gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts would generally be offset by corresponding gains and losses on the net foreign currency assets and liabilities that they hedge, with the goal of minimizing the net gains or losses overall on the hedged exposures. When hedging balance sheet exposures, all gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income (loss) in the same period as when the gains and losses on re measurement of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities occur. All settlements of gains and losses related to foreign currency forward contracts are included in cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. If we did not hedge against foreign currency exchange rate movement, a hypothetical increase or decrease of 10% in exchange rates would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in earnings before taxes of approximately $14.4 million. This amount represents the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on exposures at March 31, 2012 related to balance sheet re measurement only and assumes that all currencies move in the same direction at the same time relative to the United States dollar. We do not currently hedge currency risk related to anticipated revenue or expenses denominated in foreign currencies. The notional amounts at contract exchange rates of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding were: Notional Amount March 31, 2012 2011 (In millions) Foreign Currency Forward Contracts (receive United States dollar/pay foreign currency) Euro $ 214.2 $ 158.5 Australian dollar 29.9 13.9 British pound 19.2 5.0 Chinese yuan renminbi 11.7 7.6 Brazilian real 8.7 5.6 Swedish krona 8.2 2.4 Swiss franc 6.8 1.5 Danish krone 3.9 3.0 Singapore dollar 3.8 0.6 New Zealand dollar 3.4 2.9 Mexican peso 3.2 South Korean won 2.6 4.6 Canadian dollar 4.2 Other 6.4 3.2 Total $ 322.0 $ 213.0 Foreign Currency Forward Contracts (pay United States dollar/receive foreign currency) Israeli shekel $ 158.2 $ 151.6 Mexican peso 9.3 Indian rupee 15.0 9.1 Other 4.8 2.2 Total $ 178.0 $ 172.2 Interest Rate Risk We adhere to a conservative investment policy, whereby our principal concern is the preservation of liquid funds. Cash, cash equivalents and investments were approximately $1.6 billion at March 31, 2012, which consisted of $1.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents and the remaining balance consisted primarily of different types of investment grade debt securities. Although our portfolio is subject to fluctuations in interest rates and market conditions, we classify most of our investments as available for sale, which provides that no gain or loss on any security would actually be recognized in earnings unless the instrument was sold or any loss in value was deemed to be other than temporary. Due to the current interest rate environment and the liquidity of our overall portfolio, any hypothetical decrease in annual interest rates would have an immaterial impact on earnings before taxes. 43 Market Risk The carrying value and fair value at March 31, 2012 of our senior unsecured notes due 2018 were $298.9 million and $368.4 million, respectively. The fair value was based upon market prices of these senior notes. If market interest rates increased by 100 basis points and assuming all other variables were held constant, we estimate the fair value of our senior unsecured notes due 2018 would decrease by approximately $17.9 million. The carrying value and fair value at March 31, 2012 of our senior unsecured notes due 2022 were $497.4 million and $506.6 million, respectively. The fair value was based upon market prices of these senior notes. If market interest rates increased by 100 basis points and assuming all other variables were held constant, we estimate the fair value of our senior unsecured notes due 2022 would decrease by approximately $38.5 million. At March 31, 2012, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $29.3 million and an estimated fair value of $26.9 million. For further information, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. We may incur additional temporary unrealized losses or other than temporary impairments in the future if current market conditions were to persist and we no longer had the intent and ability to retain the auction rate securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any recovery in fair value. 
 
