FILE:LM/LM-8K-20051207172146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
In connection with the completion of the transaction contemplated by the previously reported Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 23, 2005, between Legg Mason, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the ""), and Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation ("") (as amended, the ""), pursuant to which the Company agreed to acquire subsidiaries of Citigroup that constitute substantially all of Citigroup's worldwide asset management business ("") in exchange for Company subsidiaries that constitute its private client brokerage and capital markets businesses and other consideration, the Company entered into certain agreements with Citigroup, as described below.
Company
Citigroup
Transaction Agreement
CAM
 
Amendment Agreement
 
The Company entered into an Amendment Agreement with Citigroup, dated as of November 30, 2005, which amends certain provisions of the Transaction Agreement, which is described in the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on June 29, 2005.
SEC
 
The foregoing description of the Amendment Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment Agreement, which is filed hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Investor Rights Agreement
 
In connection with the issuance and delivery to Citigroup of 5,393,545 shares of common stock (the "") of the Company and 13.346632 shares of non-voting convertible preferred stock of the Company convertible, upon transfer, into 13,346,632 shares of common stock (as converted, together with the Common Stock, the "") as further described in Item 2.01 hereof, the Company entered into a Registration and Investor Rights Agreement dated as of December 1, 2005 with Citigroup (the ""). Under the Investor Rights Agreement, the Company will promptly file and use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be declared effective by the SEC no later than March 1, 2006 a shelf registration statement providing for the resale from time to time of such number of Shares as Citigroup requests, such number not to exceed two-thirds of the Shares. Citigroup is entitled to effect four fully marketed underwritten takedowns under the shelf registration statement. Citigroup may also on two occasions demand that the Company file registration statements with the SEC providing for "one-off" offerings of all or a portion of the Shares. Subject to certain exceptions, Citigroup is also entitled to piggyback registration rights upon any registration for sale of any of the Company's common equity securities pursuant to a registration statement under the Securities Act. Subject to customary exceptions, Citigroup may not transfer Shares that constitute more than 1% of the outstanding Common Stock to any one person, and may only transfer any of the Shares to a person whose beneficial ownership of outstanding Common Stock, including the Shares to be transferred to such person, does not exceed 4.9% of the outstanding Common Stock. These restrictions on transfer will not apply to: any transfer to an affiliate of Citigroup or to the Company, any transfer pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or offerings made under a shelf registration statement, demand registrations or piggyback registrations.
Common Stock
Shares
Investor Rights Agreement
 
Citigroup may not sell more than two-thirds of the Shares within the first 12 months following the Closing Date and may not publicly sell any of the Shares before March 1, 2006. Until the later to occur of the tenth anniversary of the Closing Date and the date on which Citigroup and its affiliates beneficially own 3% or less of the outstanding Common Stock, without the prior consent of the Company, Citigroup may not acquire or agree to acquire, directly or indirectly, more than 3% of the outstanding voting securities of the Company or more than 14.9% of the outstanding capital stock of the Company.
 
The foregoing description of the Investor Rights Agreement is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Investor Rights Agreement, which is filed hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Transition Services Agreements
 
Citigroup and the Company entered into three Transition Services Agreements, each dated as of December 1, 2005, relating to the worldwide asset management business purchased by the Company from Citigroup, and the private client brokerage and capital markets businesses purchased by Citigroup from the Company, respectively. Under each agreement, the respective seller agreed to provide, or cause to be provided, to the purchaser of the respective business all services (other than investment advisory services) provided to the business in the ordinary course prior to the date of the agreement as set forth in the agreement. In addition, the respective purchaser agreed to provide, or cause to be provided, to the seller of the respective business all services (other than investment advisory services) provided to the seller by the transferred business in the ordinary course prior to the date of the agreement as set forth in the agreement. Under each agreement, the respective services are to be provided for up to two years, during which the recipient of each service pays the costs incurred by the party providing the service in connection with providing the service, for as long as the service is provided. The service recipient may terminate the services on an individual basis, as the applicable transition progresses. Each Transition Services Agreement also provides for the confidentiality of information disclosed under the agreement, and for a variety of indemnities.
 
The foregoing description of the Transition Services Agreements is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Transition Services Agreements, which are filed hereto as Exhibits 10.4, 10.5 and 10.6 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
$130 Million Revolving Credit Agreement
 
On December 1, 2005, CAM North America, LLC, which became a subsidiary of the Company in the Transaction (""), as Borrower, and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Lender (the ""), entered into an unsecured 364-day Revolving Credit Agreement (the "") pursuant to which the Lender will make available to CAM NA a revolving credit facility in an amount of $130 million. CAM NA will use this revolving credit facility to fund working capital needs and for general corporate purposes. The revolving credit facility will be available from the Closing Date under the Credit Agreement until the date that is 364 days after the Closing Date under the Credit Agreement and will be payable in full at maturity 364 days from the Closing Date under the Credit Agreement. In the Credit
CAM NA
Lender
Credit Agreement
 
Agreement, CAM NA has agreed to standard covenants. The Lender is a subsidiary of Citigroup.
 
$62 Million Term Note
 
On December 1, 2005, CAM NA unconditionally promised to pay the Lender the principal amount of $62 million on the date that is 364 days from December 1, 2005, together with interest on the unpaid principal amount from December 1, 2005 until the principal amount has been paid in full, all pursuant to a promissory note executed by CAM NA in favor of the Lender (the ""). The Term Note memorializes existing intercompany payables to or borrowings from Citigroup (or an affiliate thereof). In the Term Note, CAM NA has agreed to standard covenants.
Term Note
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
On December 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of CAM from Citigroup in exchange for (i) all outstanding stock of Company subsidiaries that constitute its private client brokerage and capital markets businesses; (ii) 5,393,545 shares of Common Stock and 13.346632 shares of non-voting convertible preferred stock of the Company convertible, upon transfer, into 13,346,632 shares of Common Stock and (iii) $512 million in cash (the ""), pursuant to the Transaction Agreement. Under the Transaction Agreement, the parties agreed to a post-closing purchase price adjustment that may increase the price to be paid by the Company by up to $300 million based on the retention of certain assets under management nine months after the closing of the Transaction, which the Company expects would be paid by borrowing under the $300 million 5-Year Credit Agreement entered into by the Company with Citicorp North America, Inc. on November 23, 2005. As a result of the Transaction, the Company expects that it will recognize an approximately $1.1 billion gain, net of approximately $95 million in costs related to the sale, including approximately $82 million for acceleration of vesting of employee stock compensation awards, from the sale of its private client brokerage and capital markets businesses (approximately $640 million after tax) in the quarter ended December 31, 2005.
Transaction
 
The cash consideration paid by the Company was obtained from borrowings under the $700 million term loan described in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 20, 2005 for which Citibank, N.A., is Administrative Agent and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., is Lead Arranger and Book Manager (the ""). Citibank, N.A. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. are subsidiaries of Citigroup.
Syndicated Loan Agreement
 
The foregoing summary is qualified by reference to the full text of the Transaction Agreement, which is an exhibit hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
Pursuant to the Credit Agreement described above in Item 1.01, which disclosure is incorporated herein by reference, CAM NA may borrow from time to time amounts from the Lender under a revolving credit facility that do not exceed $130 million outstanding at any time to fund working capital requirements or for general corporate purposes. Amounts may be borrowed under the Credit Agreement during the 364-day period commencing on the Closing Date under the Credit Agreement. All outstanding amounts under the revolving credit facility will be payable in full at maturity 364 days from the Closing Date under the Credit Agreement, and amounts outstanding thereunder may be prepaid from time to time by CAM NA. Events of default under the Credit Agreement, the occurrence of which may trigger an acceleration of amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility, include (i) a cross-default under the Syndicated Loan Agreement and (ii) standard events of default, including (A) aggregate payment defaults by the Company and its significant subsidiaries (which include CAM NA) on at least $50 million in other indebtedness, and (B) failures by the Company and its significant subsidiaries (which include CAM NA) to pay unstayed judgments or court orders in an aggregate amount in excess of $50 million.
 
Pursuant to the Term Note described above in Item 1.01, which disclosure is incorporated herein by reference, the Term Note memorializes existing intercompany payables to or borrowings from Citigroup (or an affiliate thereof). The principal amount of the Term Note, and interest on the unpaid principal amount of the Term Note from and including the date thereof until the principal amount thereof is paid in full, will be payable in full at maturity 364 days from the date of the Term Note, and amounts outstanding thereunder may be prepaid from time to time by CAM NA. Events of default under the Term Note, the occurrence of which may trigger an acceleration of amounts outstanding under the Term Note, include (i) a cross-default under the Syndicated Loan Agreement and (ii) standard events of default, including (A) aggregate payment defaults by the Company and its significant subsidiaries (which include CAM NA) on at least $50 million in other indebtedness, and (B) failures by the Company and its significant subsidiaries (which include CAM NA) to pay unstayed judgments or court orders in an aggregate amount in excess of $50 million.
 
On December 1, 2005, the Company provided the Lender with a guarantee of the obligations of CAM NA under the Credit Agreement and the Term Note.
 
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
 
On December 1, 2005, the Company's management adopted a plan of termination (the "") under which the employment of certain CAM employees will be terminated. The Plan was adopted in connection with the acquisition of CAM. Under the Plan, the Company expects to pay one-time termination benefits to the affected employees in an aggregate amount currently estimated to be approximately $30 million. All of the expected termination benefits under the Plan will be paid in cash, and approximately half of these benefits will be recorded as additional purchase consideration. The Company has begun to implement the Plan and expects to complete it within one year.
Plan
 
Section 3  Securities and Trading Markets
 
Item 3.02 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities.
 
Pursuant to the Transaction Agreement, on December 1, 2005, the Company issued to Citigroup as part of the consideration in the Transaction 5,393,545 shares of Common Stock and 13.346632 shares of non-voting convertible preferred stock of the Company. The preferred stock will automatically convert into an aggregate of 13,346,632 shares of Common Stock upon transfer to an entity that is not an affiliate of Citigroup. This issuance of these securities was made pursuant to an exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
In connection with the Transaction, the Company filed articles supplementary creating the Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company with the Secretary of State of the State of Maryland on November 29, 2005, which were approved by the Board of Directors of the Company. Pursuant to the articles supplementary, the shares of the Company's Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock will automatically convert into shares of its Common Stock (at a rate of one million shares of Common Stock per share of preferred stock) upon the transfer by the initial holder or any affiliate thereof of such shares of Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock to a person, other than to the initial holder or any affiliate thereof. The articles supplementary further describe the preferences, conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications and terms and conditions for redemption of the Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
The foregoing description of the articles supplementary is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the articles supplementary, which are filed hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The financial statements required by Item 9.01(a) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment no later than 71 calendar days after the date this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
 
 
The pro forma financial statements required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K reflecting the acquisition of CAM will be filed by amendment no later than 71 calendar days after the date this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
LEGG MASON, INC. (the ""), a Maryland corporation having its principal office at 100 Light Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202, hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Corporation
 
FIRST: Pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors of the Corporation by the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation (as amended and supplemented, the ""), the Board of Directors has duly classified 13.621021 shares of the 4,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $10.00 per share, of the Corporation authorized (being shares of Preferred Stock authorized but unissued as of the date hereof) in Article Fifth of the Articles of Incorporation as a series designated "Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock."
Articles of Incorporation
 
SECOND: The preferences, conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, and terms and conditions for redemption, as established by the Board of Directors of the Corporation for such Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are as set forth herein.
 
As used herein, the following terms have the following meanings (with terms defined in the singular having comparable meanings when used in the plural and vice versa), unless the context otherwise requires:
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such first Person. The term "control" (including its correlative meanings "controlled by" and "under common control with") means possession, directly or indirectly, of power to direct or cause the direction of management or policies (whether through ownership of securities or partnership or other ownership interests, by contract or otherwise).
Affiliate
 
"" means the board of directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of such board.
Board of Directors
 
"" means any day, except a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
 
"" means any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of the Corporation.
Capital Stock
 
"" means U.S. legal tender currency.
Cash
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 1.
Common Stock
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 8(a).
Conversion Event
"" means the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of one share of Series A Preferred Stock. The Conversion Rate as of the Original Issue Date shall be one million and shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Section 8.
Conversion Rate
 
" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the SEC.
Exchange Act
 
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Federal Reserve
 
"" means the Persons that hold shares of the Series A Preferred Stock.
Holders
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 5.
Initial Holder
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 4.
Junior Stock
 
"" means any statute, law, ordinance, regulation, rule, code, executive order, injunction, judgment, decree or other order issued or promulgated by any national, supranational, state, federal, provincial, local or municipal government or any administrative or regulatory body, including the Federal Reserve.
Law
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 7.
Liquidation
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 7.
Liquidation Preference
 
"" means the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary or the Treasurer of the Corporation.
Officer
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 8(c).
Original Issue Date
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 4.
Parity Stock
 
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company or partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government (including any agency or political subdivision thereof).
Person
 
"" means all issued and outstanding Preferred Stock of the Corporation, regardless of series.
Preferred Stock
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 4.
Senior Stock
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 1.
Series A Preferred Stock
 
Section 1. . Twenty (20) shares of the Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall constitute a series of Preferred Stock designated as Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (hereinafter referred to as the ""). Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; , that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for
Designation and Number of Shares
Series A Preferred Stock
provided
 
issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock. The Corporation may issue fractional shares of Series A Preferred Stock, such fractions to be carried out to seven (7) decimal places. In the event that the Conversion Rate is adjusted pursuant to Section 8(c) as a result of a subdivision of the outstanding Common Stock of the Corporation, par value $0.10 (the ""), or a dividend in shares of Common Stock, such number of decimal places shall be increased in the same proportion.
Common Stock
 
Section 2. In case the Corporation shall at any time or from time to time declare, order, pay or make a dividend or other distribution (including, without limitation, any distribution of securities, cash, property or rights, warrants or options to subscribe for securities or assets of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries by way of a dividend, distribution or spin-off (whether or not paid out of capital, surplus or earnings) or pursuant to a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation) on, or in respect of, all or substantially all of the Common Stock, except to the extent that a dividend or distribution is payable in Common Stock and results in a change in the Conversion Rate (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 8(c), Holders shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation, with respect to each share of Series A Preferred Stock held, a dividend or distribution in an amount equal to and in the same form that would be received by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such share of Series A Preferred Stock is convertible on the record date for such dividend or distribution with fractional shares of Common Stock deemed to be entitled to the corresponding fraction of any dividend or distribution that would be received by a whole share; , , that if any such dividend or distribution is payable to holders of Common Stock in rights, options, warrants or other securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, shares of Common Stock, such dividend or distribution shall be payable to Holders in rights, options, warrants or other securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, the appropriate number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Any such dividend or distribution shall be declared, ordered, paid or made at the same time such dividend or distribution is declared, ordered, paid or made on the Common Stock. No dividend or distribution shall be declared, ordered, paid or made on any share of Common Stock, unless a dividend or distribution, as the case may be, payable in an amount determined as set forth above, is simultaneously declared, ordered, paid or made, as the case may be, on each share of Series A Preferred Stock nor shall any dividend or distribution be declared, ordered, paid or made on any share of Series A Preferred Stock unless a dividend or distribution, as the case may be, payable in an amount determined as set forth above, is simultaneously declared, ordered, paid or made, as the case may be, on each share of Common Stock, in each case without preference or priority of any kind.
Dividends and Distributions.
provided
however
 
Section 3. . Holders shall be entitled to vote as a class upon a proposed amendment of these Articles Supplementary or the Articles of Incorporation if such amendment would increase or decrease the par value of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock or alter or change (by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise) the powers, preferences, or special rights of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely. Except as provided in this Section 3 and except as required by applicable law, Holders shall have no voting rights in respect of the Series A Preferred Stock and their consent shall not be required for taking any corporate action.
Voting Rights
 
Section 4. . All Series A Preferred Stock, as to payment of distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall rank (1) senior to all of the Corporation's now or hereafter issued shares of Common Stock or any other class or series of Capital Stock that may hereafter be created and issued, the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series ranks senior to or on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Corporation (collectively, together with any warrants, rights, calls or options exercisable for or convertible into such Capital Stock, the ), (2) on a parity with any other class or series of Capital Stock, the terms of which expressly provide that such class or series ranks on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Corporation, that may hereafter be created (collectively, together with any warrants, rights, calls or options exercisable for or convertible into such Capital Stock, the ) and (3) junior to any other class or series of Capital Stock that may hereafter be created and issued, the terms of which expressly provide that such class or series ranks senior to the Series A Preferred Stock as to rights upon liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Corporation (collectively, together with any warrants, rights, calls or options exercisable for or convertible into such Capital Stock, the ). The Series A Preferred Stock shall, with respect to dividend rights, rank on a parity (as provided in Section 2) with all of the Corporation's now or hereafter issued shares of Common Stock and any other class or series of Capital Stock that may hereafter be created and issued, the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series ranks senior to or junior to the Series A Preferred Stock as to dividend rights.
Ranking
"Junior Stock"
"Parity Stock"
"Senior Stock"
 
Section 5. . The Series A Preferred Stock shall not be transferable by the initial Holder thereof (the "") or its Affiliates other than:
Certain Restrictions on Transfer
Initial Holder
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nothing in this Section 5, however, affect any automatic conversion pursuant to Section 8(a).
 
Section 6. . Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever, shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become
Reacquired Shares
 
authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Articles of Incorporation, in any other articles supplementary creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
 
Section 7. .
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding-Up
 
(a) Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation (each a ), no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares of Junior Stock unless prior thereto, the Holders shall have received a liquidation preference (the "") equal to the greater of (1) $0.10 per share of Series A Preferred Stock (but not more than $1,000 in the aggregate for all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock) and (2) the amount to which such Holders are entitled pursuant to Section 2 in connection with such distribution; shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not entitle a Holder to any further payment unless holders of the Common Stock receive a further payment.
"Liquidation"
Liquidation Preference
 
(b) If, upon any Liquidation, the Corporation's assets, or proceeds thereof, distributable among the Holders are insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid and liquidating payments on any Parity Stock, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the Holders and any holders of shares of other Parity Stock ratably in accordance with the respective amounts that would be payable on such shares of Series A Preferred Stock and any such shares of other Parity Stock if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full. No funds are required to be set aside to protect the Liquidation Preference of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock.
 
(c) Neither the voluntary sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer, for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration, of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property or assets nor the consolidation, merger or amalgamation of the Corporation with or into any entity or the consolidation, merger or amalgamation of any entity with or into the Corporation shall be deemed to be a Liquidation.
 
Section 8. . Holders shall have the following rights with respect to the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock:
Conversion Rights
 
. Upon a transfer by the Initial Holder or any Affiliate of the Initial Holder of any shares of Series A Preferred Stock other than to the Initial Holder or an Affiliate of the Initial Holder (except a broker-dealer affiliate in connection with a capital markets transaction) or at any time any such Affiliate ceases to be an Affiliate of the Initial Holder (a ""), each such share of Series A Preferred Stock shall automatically be converted into shares of Common Stock at the then current Conversion Rate. Any such shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be converted without any further action by the Holder of such shares and whether or not the certificates representing such shares are surrendered to the Corporation or its transfer agent. Effective immediately upon the occurrence of the conversion, certificates theretofore evidencing shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be deemed to evidence that number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of such shares of Series A Preferred Stock. The Initial Holder shall give prompt notice to the Corporation of (i)
(a) Automatic Conversion
Conversion Event
 
any transfer of any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, and shall indicate in such notice if the transferee is an Affiliate of the Initial Holder and (ii) any event or transaction pursuant to which any such transferee Affiliate then holding Series A Preferred Stock ceases to be an Affiliate of the Initial Holder.
 
. At any time upon or following a Conversion Event, each Person holding certificates designated "Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock" who desires to exchange the same for certificates designated "Common Stock" pursuant to this Section 8(b) shall surrender the certificate or certificates therefor to the Corporation at the office of the Corporation or any transfer agent for the Series A Preferred Stock or at such other location acceptable to the Corporation. The Corporation shall promptly issue and deliver to such Person a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such Person is entitled. Such Person shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of such shares of Common Stock on the date of such Conversion Event, notwithstanding the failure to so surrender certificates for exchange. Such Person shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar transfer tax which is due because the shares are issued in a name other than such Person's name. The Corporation may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the Common Stock being issued in a name other than such Person's name until it receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which shall be due and owing by the Corporation because the shares are to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name or receives assurance that any such tax will be promptly paid when due.
(b) Issuance of Certificates upon Conversion
 
If at any time or from time to time after the date the first share of Series A Preferred Stock is issued (the "") the Corporation effects a subdivision of the outstanding Common Stock or declares or pays a dividend or distribution on all or substantially all of the outstanding Common Stock in shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the effective date for such subdivision or the record date for such dividend or distribution shall be proportionately increased by the multiplication of such Conversion Rate by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding prior to such effective date or record date. Conversely, if at any time or from time to time after the Original Issue Date the Corporation combines the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the combination becomes effective shall be proportionately decreased based on the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding before and after such event. Any adjustment under this Section 8(c) shall become effective simultaneously with the effectiveness of such subdivision or combination or, in the case of a dividend, the close of business on the record date for such dividend.
(c) Adjustment for Stock Splits and Combinations.
Original Issue Date
 
If at any time or from time to time on or after the Original Issue Date, there occurs:
(d) Adjustment for Reclassification, Exchange, Substitution, Reorganization, Merger or Consolidation, Etc.
 
(i) any reclassification or change of the outstanding Common Stock (other than a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value, or as a result of a subdivision or combination);
 
(ii) any merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or combination of the Corporation with another Person as a result of which holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive stock, securities or other property or assets (including cash) with respect to or in exchange for such Common Stock; or
 
(iii) any sale or conveyance of the properties and assets of the Corporation as, or substantially as, an entirety to any other Person as a result of which holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive stock, securities or other property or assets (including cash) with respect to or in exchange for such Common Stock;
 
then, in each such case, the shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be convertible into (and as a condition to such transaction, the Corporation or the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, shall execute an assumption agreement or other instrument reasonably satisfactory to each Holder providing that the Holders shall be entitled to convert the shares of Series A Preferred Stock into) the kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities or property or assets (including cash) that such holder would have been entitled to receive upon such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance had such Series A Preferred Stock been converted into Common Stock immediately prior to such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance; that if the holders of Common Stock may elect from choices the kind or amount of securities, cash or other property receivable upon such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, sale or conveyance, then for the purposes of this Section 8(d), the kind and amount of securities, cash or other property receivable upon such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, sale or conveyance shall be deemed to be the choice specified by each Holder, which specification shall be made by such Holder not later than the latest time at which holders of Common Stock are permitted to make their specification known to the Corporation. If such Holder fails to make any specification, such Holder's choice shall be deemed to be whatever choice is made by a plurality of holders of Common Stock not affiliated with the Corporation or any other Person that is a party to such merger, consolidation, sale or conveyance or, if no such holders exist, as specified by the Board of Directors of the Corporation in good faith. Such assumption agreement or other instrument shall provide for adjustments that shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Section 8. If, in the case of any such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance, the stock or other securities or property receivable thereupon by a holder of Common Stock includes shares of stock or other securities or property of a Person other than the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, in such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance, then such assumption agreement or other instrument shall also be executed by such other Person. The above provisions of this Section 8(d) shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications, changes, mergers, consolidations, statutory share exchanges, combinations, sales and conveyances. The Corporation shall not enter into a transaction of the type described in this Section 8(d) unless the terms of this Section 8(d) are complied with in full. In any such case, appropriate adjustment shall be made in the application of the provisions of this Section 8 with respect to the rights of the Holders after such recapitalization, reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, sale or conveyance to the end that the provisions of this Section 8 (including adjustment of the Conversion Rate then in effect) shall be applicable after that event and be as nearly equivalent as practicable.
provided
 
The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for the purpose of effecting the conversion of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be sufficient to effect the conversion of all then outstanding share of Series A Preferred Stock. All adjustments to the Conversion Rate shall be carried out to seven (7) decimal places.
(e) Reservation of Shares, Etc.
 
Section 9. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in these Articles Supplementary in Sections 3 and 5, the rights conferred by these Articles Supplementary on the Initial Holder and its Affiliates shall be subject to all further conditions, restrictions and other requirements that are imposed by the Federal Reserve, and any transfer or other direct or indirect action by the Initial Holder or its Affiliates, including any acquisition of other or additional interests in the Corporation, that affects the Corporation's, the Initial Holder's or such Affiliates' compliance with such requirements, shall be deemed to limit such rights for so long as and to the extent that the exercise or possession of such rights results in or contributes to a violation of such requirements.
Federal Reserve Requirements
 
Section 10. . Shares of Series A Preferred Stock are not subject to redemption at the option of the Corporation or subject to any sinking fund or other mandatory right of redemption accruing to the Holders thereof.
Redemption
 
Section 11. . No fractional shares or scrip representing fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued upon the conversion of any shares of Series A Preferred Stock. If the conversion of any share or shares of Series A Preferred Stock results in a fraction, an amount equal to such fraction multiplied by (i) the last reported sales price on the New York Stock Exchange of a share of Common Stock on the date of conversion, or (ii) if no such price exists, the fair market value of a share of Common Stock as determined in good faith by the board of directors of the Corporation, shall be paid to the Holder in Cash by the Corporation.
No Fractional Shares of Common Stock
 
Section 12. . Any Holder may, at any time, surrender a certificate or certificates evidencing shares of Series A Preferred Stock for split up or combination into one or more certificates evidencing shares of Series A Preferred Stock, each such certificate individually representing such number of shares (including fractions carried out to up to seven (7) decimal places (or the greater number provided for in Section 1 hereof)) as requested by such holder, but in the aggregate representing the aggregate number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock represented by the certificate or certificates so surrendered.
Exchange of Certificates for Series A Preferred Stock
 
Section 13. . The Corporation shall be entitled to deduct and withhold in respect of the Series A Preferred Stock such amounts as the Corporation is required to withhold and deduct under applicable federal, state, local or foreign tax Laws. Amounts that are so withheld and deducted shall be treated hereunder as having been paid to the Holder in respect of which the withholding and deduction was made.
Tax
 
Section 14. . The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be issued in the form of one or more permanent certificated shares substantially in the form attached hereto as . The certificates evidencing the Series A Preferred Stock also may have notations, legends or
Form
Exhibit A
 
endorsements required by Law. An Officer shall sign the certificate representing the Series A Preferred Stock, in accordance with the Corporation's bylaws and applicable law, by manual or facsimile signature. If an Officer whose signature is on a certificate no longer holds that office, the certificate representing the Series A Preferred Stock shall be valid nevertheless.
 
Section 15. . The Corporation may appoint one or more registrars, paying agents, transfer agents and/or conversion agents in respect of its obligations hereunder.
Registrar; Transfer Agent
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Legg Mason, Inc. has caused these presents to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its President and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and attested to by its Secretary this 29 day of November, 2005.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, President of Legg Mason, Inc., who executed on behalf of said Corporation the foregoing Articles Supplementary to its Articles of Incorporation, of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges, in the name and on behalf of said Corporation, the foregoing Articles Supplementary to the Articles of Incorporation to be the corporate act of said Corporation, and further certifies that, to the best of his knowledge, information and belief, the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 
 
Dated: November 29, 2005
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS SECURITY AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NONE OF THIS SECURITY, THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS.
 
THIS SECURITY AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES NOT TO OFFER, SELL, TRANSFER OR OTHERWISE ENCUMBER SUCH SECURITY, OR THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY, EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER SET FORTH IN THE ARTICLES SUPPLEMENTARY PURSUANT TO WHICH THIS SECURITY IS ISSUED.
 
Legg Mason, Inc., a Maryland corporation (and any successor pursuant to the applicable section hereof, the ), hereby certifies that is the registered owner of fully paid and non-assessable shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated the Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $10.00 per share (the ).
"Corporation"
                        
            
"Series A Preferred Stock"
 
The shares of Series A Preferred Stock are transferable on the books and records of the Corporation, in person or by a duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this certificate duly endorsed and in proper form for transfer. The designation, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and provisions of the Series A Preferred Stock represented hereby shall in all respects be subject to the provisions of the Articles Supplementary of the Corporation dated November 29, 2005, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms (the ).
"Articles Supplementary"
 
Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the respective meanings given them in the the Articles Supplementary. The Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional, or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
 
Reference is hereby made to select provisions of the Series A Preferred Stock set forth on the reverse hereof, and to the Articles Supplementary, which select provisions and the Articles Supplementary shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Upon receipt of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Articles Supplementary and is entitled to the benefits thereunder.
 
Unless this certificate has been properly executed, the shares of Series A Preferred Stock evidenced hereby shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Articles Supplementary or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Legg Mason, Inc. has executed this certificate as of the date set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Holder shall be entitled to receive, on an as-converted basis, dividends and other distributions declared, paid or payable with respect to shares of the Corporation's Common Stock as provided in the Articles Supplementary; , , that a Holder shall not be entitled to receive any portion of such dividend or other distribution that consists of Common Stock but instead shall be entitled to receive such dividend or distribution in the form of Series A Preferred Stock as provided in the Articles Supplementary.
provided
however
 
Holders shall be entitled to vote as a class upon a proposed amendment of the Articles Supplementary or the Articles of Incorporation if such amendment would increase or decrease the par value of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock or alter or change (by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise) the powers, preferences, or special rights of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely. Except as otherwise provided in the Articles Supplementary and except as required by applicable law, Holders shall have no voting rights in respect of the Series A Preferred Stock and their consent shall not be required for taking any corporate action.
 
The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be convertible into the Corporation's Common Stock in the manner and according to the terms set forth in the Articles Supplementary.
 
In the event of any Liquidation of the Corporation, Holders shall be entitled to receive, before any payment or distribution to the holders of Junior Stock, the greater of (a) $0.10 per share of Series A Preferred Stock (but not more than $1,000 in the aggregate for all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock) and (b) the amount which would have been paid in such Liquidation based upon the number of shares of Common Stock into which such Holders' shares of Series A Preferred Stock could have been, immediately prior to such Liquidation, converted pursuant to the provisions of the Articles Supplementary.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
AMENDMENT No. 1 (this ""), dated as of November 30, 2005, to the Transaction Agreement (the ""), dated as of June 23, 2005, by and between Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and Legg Mason, Inc., a Maryland corporation ("", and together with Citigroup, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Original Agreement.
Amendment
Original Agreement
Citigroup
Legg Mason
Parties
 
 
WHEREAS, the Parties have entered into the Original Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with Section 11.7 of the Original Agreement, the parties wish to amend the Original Agreement as set forth in this Amendment.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants set forth herein and in the Original Agreement and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
 
 
Section 1.1 . Whenever used in the Original Agreement or this Amendment, the term "Agreement" shall hereinafter refer to the Original Agreement, as amended by this Amendment.
Agreement
 
Section 1.2 . (a) Section 1.2(b) and (c) of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Purchase Price
 
(b) the PC/CM Transferred Shares; and
 
(c) an amount as determined in accordance with this Section 1.2(c) (the "") equal to (i) (A)(I) $2,050,000,000 (II) $12,000,000 payable pursuant to Exhibit H in respect of the CAM London Leased Real Property (B) (I) $82.71 times (II) (x) the number of shares of Legg Mason Common Stock (y) the number of shares of Legg Mason Common Stock underlying the Legg Mason Preferred Stock, (ii) the PC/CM Balance Sheet Adjustment (as defined in Section 1.3(a)(i)), if any, (iii) the CAM Adjustment Amount (as defined in Section 1.3(b)(i)), if any, (iv) the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount unless Legg Mason shall have contributed an amount equal to the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount to the capital of the PC/CM Transferred Subsidiaries in accordance with Section 6.15(l) (the amount equal to the sum of the amounts referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iv), less the amount referred to in clause (iii), the "").
Note Principal Amount
plus
minus
plus
plus
minus
plus
Net Amount
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the payment of the consideration by Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates pursuant to Section 2.4(c) in respect of the CAM Businesses in the foreign jurisdictions identified in Exhibit J shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Exhibit J.
 
(b) Section 1.2(d) of the Agreement is deleted in its entirety.
 
Section 1.3 . Subsection 1.3(a)(iii) of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Capital Ratio
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that the capital ratio (that is, net regulatory capital (as calculated in accordance with SEC Rule 15c3-1 in a manner consistent with the FOCUS reports of the PC/CM Business) divided by aggregate debit balances (as calculated in accordance with SEC Rule 15c3-3 in a manner consistent with the FOCUS reports of the PC/CM Business), and on a pro forma basis without giving effect to any capital contributions made by Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates to the PC/CM Business to fund the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount) of the PC/CM Business is less than 15% as of immediately prior to the Closing, Legg Mason shall, or shall cause its Affiliates to, take (or omit from taking) such actions as may be necessary so that such capital ratio is at least equal to 15% at the Closing.
 
Section 1.4 . The definition of "CAM Tangible Book Value Target" set forth in Section 1.3(b)(ii) of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
CAM Tangible Book Value Target
 
"" means the sum of $48,000,000 and the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount.
CAM Tangible Book Value Target
 
Section 1.5 . (a) Section 2.1 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Closing
 
Section 2.1 . The closing of the transactions provided for in this Agreement (the "") shall take place (a) at the offices of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, Four Times Square, New York New York, 10036-6522 at 12:01 a.m., New York City time, on the first day immediately following the first calendar month-end following the date on which the last of the conditions required to be satisfied or waived pursuant to Article VII is either satisfied or waived (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, but subject to satisfaction or waiver thereof), or (b) at such other place, time or date as the Parties shall agree upon in writing. The last day of the month ending immediately prior to the date on which the Closing is to occur is referred to herein as the ""
Closing
Closing
Closing Date.
 
(b) Any document or notice required by the Original Agreement to be delivered a specified number of days or Business Days prior to the Closing shall be, for purposes of the Agreement, required to be delivered such specified number of days or Business Days prior to the Closing Date.
 
Section 1.6 . Section 2.2 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Preliminary Information
 
Section 2.2 .
Preliminary Information, etc
 
(a) (i) Citigroup shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and deliver, or cause to be delivered, to Legg Mason (A) at least five Business Days prior to the Closing Date, the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet prepared in accordance with Section 2.2(a)(ii) and calculations in reasonable detail based upon such CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet setting forth the estimated amounts of CAM Tangible Book Value, together with a certificate duly executed by an appropriate officer of a Citigroup Seller certifying that the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and such calculations were prepared in accordance with Section 2.2(a)(ii) and (B) at least two Business Days prior to the Closing Date, an updated Revenue Run-Rate Schedule prepared as of the Closing Revenue Run-Rate Date (with such schedule to be further updated and delivered as of the Closing to reflect Consents that have been obtained, and oral or written notices of termination that been received from CAM Advisory Clients, in each case that have not been withdrawn or rescinded, from and after the date on which such schedule was initially delivered to Legg Mason through the Closing).
 
(ii) Citigroup shall, in good faith and at Citigroup's expense, prepare, or cause to be prepared, the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet using the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods set forth in the footnotes to such CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet (a true and complete copy of which is attached hereto as Annex 2.2(a)(ii)) and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods used in preparing the CAM Base Balance Sheet (including the types of adjustments used in preparing such CAM Base Balance Sheet as set forth in the notes thereto). Citigroup shall give, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its advisers to give, Legg Mason and its respective advisers reasonable access to such books, records and personnel of Citigroup (including the work papers of Citigroup and its accountants relating to the preparation of the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and such calculations based thereon) as may be necessary to enable Legg Mason and its advisers to review the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and such calculations based thereon prior to the Closing. For the avoidance of doubt, in the event of any disagreement between Citigroup and Legg Mason as to the preparation of the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet (or any amount thereon) or the calculation of CAM Tangible Book Value, the amounts set forth in such CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet or such calculations shall control (without regard to any adjustment requested by Legg Mason that is not agreed to by Citigroup) for all purposes of this Agreement at the Closing, subject to the rights of Legg Mason as set forth in Section 3.1.
 
(b) (i) Legg Mason shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and deliver, or cause to be delivered, to Citigroup (A) at least five Business Days prior to the Closing Date, the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet prepared in accordance with Section 2.2(b)(ii) and calculations in reasonable detail based upon such PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheets setting forth the estimated amounts of PC/CM Tangible Book Value and the capital ratio, together with a certificate duly executed by an appropriate officer of a Legg Mason Seller certifying that the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and such calculations were prepared in accordance with Section 2.2(b)(ii) and (B) at least two Business Days prior to the Closing Date, a certificate signed by the Chief Financial Officer of Legg Mason certifying as to the number of shares of Legg Mason Common Stock issued and outstanding as of the date of such certificate for purposes of the calculations to be made pursuant to Section 1.2(a).
 
(ii) Legg Mason shall, in good faith and at Legg Mason's expense, prepare, or cause to be prepared, the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet using the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods set forth in the footnotes to such PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet (a true and complete copy of which is attached hereto as Annex 2.2(b)(ii)) and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods used in preparing the PC/CM Base Balance Sheet (including the types of adjustments used in preparing such PC/CM Base Balance Sheet as set forth in the notes thereto). Legg Mason shall give, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its advisers to give, Citigroup and its respective advisers reasonable access to such books, records and personnel of Legg Mason (including the work papers of Legg Mason and its accountants relating to the preparation of the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and such calculations based thereon) as may be necessary to enable Citigroup and its advisers to review the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and such calculations based thereon prior to the Closing. For the avoidance of doubt, in the event of any disagreement between Citigroup and Legg Mason as to the preparation of the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet (or any amount thereon) or the calculation of PC/CM Tangible Book Value or the capital ratio, the amounts set forth in such PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet or such calculations shall control (without regard to any adjustment requested by Citigroup that is not agreed to by Legg Mason) for all purposes of this Agreement at the Closing, subject to the rights of Citigroup as set forth in Section 3.2.
 
(c) Citigroup shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Legg Mason, not later than five Business Days prior to the Closing Date, a notice specifying (i) the name(s) of one or more Citigroup Sellers or Affiliates thereof to whom the Legg Mason Shares shall be issued and in whose name(s) the issuance of the Legg Mason Shares shall be registered on Legg Mason's transfer books by Legg Mason's transfer agent, (ii) the amount(s) and form of shares comprising the Legg Mason Shares to be issued to each such Citigroup Seller or wholly-owned Subsidiary thereof and (iii) the name(s) of one or more Citigroup Sellers or wholly-owned Subsidiaries thereof to whom the Legg Mason Note, if applicable,
 
shall be issued; , , that, to the extent reasonably practicable, Citigroup shall cause the Legg Mason Shares to be held by one or more Citigroup Affiliates so as to facilitate compliance by the Parties hereto and their respective Affiliates with ERISA.
provided
however
 
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the Citigroup Disclosure Letter or Legg Mason Disclosure Letter to the contrary, (i) Legg Mason agrees that it shall pay (or cause to be paid) to Citigroup (or one of its Affiliates) by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated by Citigroup at least two Business Days prior to the payment date $37,000,000, such amount being the excess of the amount reflected on the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet as a liability under "Intercompany" (footnote (d)) over the amount reflected on the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet as an asset under "Intercompany" (footnote(d)) and (ii) Citigroup agrees that it shall pay (or cause to be paid) to Legg Mason (or one of its Affiliates) by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated by Legg Mason at least two Business Days prior to the payment date $86,286,563, such amount being reflected on the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet as a break-out labeled "Intercompany payable generated by day-to-day operations" to the line item "Payable to LM Incorporated", in each case, within 21 days following the Closing; that neither such payment shall result in any duplicate payment or recovery for any party under this Agreement; that the Parties agree that any amounts referred to in this Section 2.2(d) shall be subject to review in accordance with Sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3.
provided
provided
further
 
Section 1.7 . (a) Section 2.3(b) of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Citigroup Deliveries at Closing
 
(b) the License Agreements, duly executed;
 
(b) Subsection 2.3(j) of the Original Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and Subsection 2.3(k) of the Original Agreement shall be redesignated as Subsection 2.3(j).
 
Section 1.8 . Sections 2.4(c) and 2.4(d) of the Original Agreement are amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
Legg Mason Deliveries at Closing
 
(c) an amount equal to the Note Principal Amount by wire transfer in immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated at least three Business Days (or earlier if reasonably appropriate in order to permit Legg Mason to register such funds with the appropriate Governmental Authority if any account is not located in the United States) prior to the Closing Date by Citigroup in a written notice to Legg Mason; , , if Legg Mason is unable to borrow the Note Principal Amount on the Closing Date pursuant to the Term Loan Facility, then Legg Mason shall deliver to Citigroup the Legg Mason Note, duly executed, in lieu of the Note Principal Amount and the principal amount under the Legg Mason Note shall be the Note Principal Amount;
provided
however
 
(d) the License Agreements, duly executed;
 
Section 1.9 . (a) Section 2.7(a) of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Delayed Closing
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, in the event that the Parties have determined that the conditions set forth in Article VII have been satisfied (other than conditions which by their terms are intended to be satisfied as of the Closing Date, with respect to which, upon the request of a Party, the Parties shall certify as to the satisfaction of such conditions to each other Party in connection with such determination), except that the transfer of any of the CAM Transferred Shares in respect of any CAM Transferred Subsidiary that is created or organized outside the United States and is immaterial to the CAM Business or any of the PC/CM Transferred Shares in respect of any PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary that is created or organized outside the United States and is immaterial to the PC/CM Business requires any material approval or permit of any Governmental Authority that has not then been received or obtained or the expiration of any applicable waiting period that has not expired (such transferred shares and the assets relating to the CAM Business or the PC/CM Business, as the case may be, conducted by such Subsidiary, collectively, the "Delayed Closing Assets"), either party shall have the right to require the Closing other than with respect to such Delayed Closing Assets, which Closing shall be effected as contemplated hereby, subject to subsections (b) and (f) below.
 
(b) Section 2.7 of the Original Agreement shall be amended to add at the end thereof the following Section 2.7(h):
 
(h) At the applicable Delayed Closing, Citigroup shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause new stock certificates representing the shares of each of the CAM Polish Transferred Subsidiaries to be issued in the name of Legg Mason (or its designee), in lieu of the transfer of currently issued and outstanding certificates.
 
Section 1.10 . Section 3.1 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet
 
Section 3.1 .
CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet
 
(a) (i) Not later than 90 days after the Closing Date or such other time as is mutually agreed by the Parties, Citigroup shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and deliver, or cause to be delivered, to Legg Mason a balance sheet of the CAM Business (the ""), as of the end of the day on the Closing Date and calculations in reasonable detail based upon such CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet setting forth the amounts of CAM Tangible Book Value, together with a certificate duly executed by an appropriate officer of a Citigroup Seller certifying that the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and such calculation were prepared in accordance with the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods set forth in the footnotes to such CAM
CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet
 
Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods used in preparing the CAM Base Balance Sheet (including the types of adjustments used by Citigroup in preparing the CAM Base Balance Sheet as set forth in the notes thereto).
 
(ii) From and after the Closing, in connection with the preparation and delivery of the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and calculation of the CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth therein and during the period of any dispute contemplated by this Section 3.1, Legg Mason shall, and shall cause the Legg Mason Sellers and CAM Subsidiaries to, and Citigroup shall, and shall cause the Citigroup Sellers and the PC/CM Subsidiaries to, (A) provide the other Party and the other Party's authorized representatives with reasonable access to the relevant books and records, facilities and employees and (B) cooperate in good faith with the other Party and its authorized representatives, including by providing on a timely basis all information reasonably necessary in or reasonably related to the preparation of the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and calculations of CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth therein and the determination of the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount.
 
(b) Within 45 days following its receipt of the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet, Legg Mason shall deliver to Citigroup either (i) its agreement as to the calculation of CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth therein and the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount determined in accordance with Section 6.14(l) prior to the Closing or (ii) a written dispute notice, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of its dispute of the calculation of CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth therein or the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount; that Legg Mason may dispute the calculation of (x) CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet only on the basis that such calculation was not made in accordance with the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods set forth in the footnotes to such CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods used in preparing the CAM Base Balance Sheet (including the types of adjustments used by Citigroup in preparing the CAM Base Balance Sheet as set forth in the notes thereto) or (y) the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount determined in accordance with Section 6.14(l) prior to the Closing on the basis that such determination is not prepared in accordance with the principles set forth in Section 6.14 (l) or in either case on the basis of arithmetic error. During the 30 days after the delivery of a dispute notice to Citigroup, Legg Mason and Citigroup shall attempt in good faith to resolve any such dispute and finally determine the amounts, as applicable, of CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet or the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount. If at the end of such 30-day period, Legg Mason and Citigroup have failed to reach agreement with respect to such dispute, the matter shall be submitted to a nationally recognized accounting firm that is not the principal independent auditor for either Citigroup or Legg Mason and is
provided
 
otherwise neutral and impartial; , , that if Citigroup and Legg Mason are unable to select such other accounting firm within 45 days after delivery of a dispute notice to Citigroup, either party may request the American Arbitration Association to appoint, within 20 Business Days from the date of such request, an independent accounting firm meeting the requirements set forth above or a neutral and impartial certified public accountant with significant relevant experience. The accounting firm or accountant so selected shall be referred to herein as the "." The Accountant shall resolve the disputed portions of the calculation of (x) CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and/or (y) the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount, in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Section 3.1. In making such determination, the Accountant may only consider those items and amounts as to which Legg Mason and Citigroup have disagreed within the time periods and on the terms specified above and must resolve the matter in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement; that the determination of the Accountant will neither be more favorable to the Citigroup Sellers than reflected in the CAM Closing Date Balance Sheet, in the case of CAM Tangible Book Value, or the amount determined by Citigroup pursuant to Section 6.14(l) prior to the Closing, in the case of the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount, nor more favorable to Legg Mason than reflected in Legg Mason's dispute notice in either case. The Accountant shall deliver to Citigroup and Legg Mason, as promptly as practicable after its appointment, a written report setting forth the resolution of each disputed matter and its determination of (x) the amount of CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and/or (y) the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount, in each case as determined in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.1. Such report shall be final and binding upon the Parties to the fullest extent permitted under Requirements of Law and may be enforced in any court having jurisdiction. Each of Legg Mason and Citigroup shall bear all the fees and costs incurred by it in connection with this arbitration, except that all fees and expenses relating to the foregoing work by the Accountant shall be borne by Legg Mason and Citigroup in inverse proportion as they may prevail on the matters resolved by the Accountant, which proportionate allocation will also be determined by the Accountant and be included in the Accountant's written report.
provided
however
Accountant
provided
 
(c) Each Party shall make available to the other Party its (and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its accountants') work papers, schedules and other supporting data as may reasonably be requested by such Party to enable such Party to verify the calculations of (i) CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and (ii) the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount, in each case subject to customary confidentiality and indemnity agreements.
 
Section 1.11 . Section 3.2 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet
 
Section 3.2 .
PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet
 
(a)(i) Not later than 90 days after the Closing Date or such other time as is mutually agreed by the Parties, Legg Mason shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and deliver, or cause to be delivered, to Citigroup a balance sheet of the PC/CM Business (the "") as of the end of the day on the Closing Date, and calculations in reasonable detail based upon such PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet setting forth the amount of PC/CM Tangible Book Value and the capital ratio, together with a certificate duly executed by an appropriate officer of a Legg Mason Seller certifying that the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and such calculations were prepared in accordance with the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods set forth in the footnotes to such PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods used in preparing the PC/CM Base Balance Sheet (including the types of adjustments used by Legg Mason in preparing the PC/CM Base Balance Sheet set forth in the notes thereto).
PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet
 
(ii) From and after the Closing, in connection with the preparation and delivery of the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and calculations of PC/CM Tangible Book Value and the capital ratio as set forth therein and during the period of any dispute contemplated by this Section 3.2, Citigroup shall, and shall cause the Citigroup Sellers and the PC/CM Subsidiaries to, and Legg Mason shall, and shall cause the Legg Mason Sellers and the CAM Subsidiaries to, (A) provide the other Party and the other Party's authorized representatives with reasonable access to the relevant books and records, facilities and employees and (B) cooperate in good faith with the other Party and its authorized representatives, including by providing on a timely basis all information reasonably necessary in or reasonably related to the preparation of the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and calculations of PC/CM Tangible Book Value and the capital ratio as set forth therein and the determination of the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount.
 
(b) Within 45 days following its receipt of the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet, Citigroup shall deliver to Legg Mason either (i) its agreement as to the calculations of PC/CM Tangible Book Value and the capital ratio as set forth therein and the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount determined in accordance with Section 6.15 (l) prior to the Closing or (ii) a written dispute notice, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of its dispute of the calculations of PC/CM Tangible Book Value and the capital ratio as set forth therein or the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount; that Citigroup may dispute the calculation of (x) PC/CM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet only on the basis that such calculation was not made in accordance with the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods set forth in the footnotes to such PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods used in
provided
 
preparing the PC/CM Base Balance Sheet (including the types of adjustments used by Legg Mason in preparing the PC/CM Base Balance Sheet set forth in the notes thereto) or (y) the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount on the basis that such determination is not prepared in accordance with the principles set forth in Section 6.15 (l), or in either case on the basis of arithmetic error. During the 30 days after the delivery of a dispute notice to Legg Mason, Citigroup and Legg Mason shall attempt in good faith to resolve any such dispute and finally determine the amount of PC/CM Tangible Book Value and the capital ratio set forth in the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet or the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount. If at the end of such 30-day period, Citigroup and Legg Mason have failed to reach agreement with respect to such dispute, the matter shall be submitted to the Accountant (as selected pursuant to Section 3.1(b)), which shall act as arbitrator. The Accountant shall resolve the disputed portions of the calculation of (x) PC/CM Tangible Book Value and the capital ratio set forth in the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and/or (y) the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount, in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Section 3.2. In making such determination, the Accountant may only consider those items and amounts as to which Citigroup and Legg Mason have disagreed within the time periods and on the terms specified above and must resolve the matter in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement; that the determination of the Accountant will neither be more favorable to Legg Mason Sellers than reflected in the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet, in the case of PC/CM Tangible Book Value or the capital ratio, or the amount determined by Legg Mason pursuant to Section 6.15(l) prior to the Closing, in the case of the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount, nor more favorable to Citigroup than reflected in Citigroup's dispute notice in either case. The Accountant shall deliver to Legg Mason and Citigroup, as promptly as practicable after its appointment, a written report setting forth the resolution of each disputed matter and its determination of (x) the amount of PC/CM Tangible Book Value and the capital ratio set forth in the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and/or (y) the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount, in each case as determined in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.2. Such report shall be final and binding upon the Parties to the fullest extent permitted under Requirements of Law and may be enforced in any court having jurisdiction. Each of Citigroup and Legg Mason shall bear all the fees and costs incurred by it in connection with this arbitration, except that all fees and expenses relating to the foregoing work by the Accountant shall be borne by Citigroup and Legg Mason in inverse proportion as they may prevail on the matters resolved by the Accountant, which proportionate allocation will also be determined by the Accountant and be included in the Accountant's written report.
provided
 
(c) Each Party shall make available to the other Party its (and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its accountants') work papers, schedules and other supporting data as may be reasonably requested by such Party to enable such Party to verify the calculations of (i) PC/CM Tangible Book Value and the capital ratio set forth in the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and (ii) the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount, in each case subject to customary confidentiality and indemnity agreements.
 
Section 1.12 . Section 3.3 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Post-Closing Balance Sheet Adjustment Payment
 
Section 3.3 On the second Business Day after the later of (x) the date Legg Mason and Citigroup agree to the calculations of CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and PC/CM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet and (y) if Legg Mason and Citigroup are unable to agree on such calculations of CAM Tangible Book Value and PC/CM Tangible Book Value, the date that Legg Mason and Citigroup receive notice from the Accountant of the final determination of the amount(s) being so disputed,
Post-Closing Balance Sheet Adjustment Payment.
 
(a) (i) in the event that the CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet is greater than the CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet, Legg Mason shall deliver to Citigroup an amount equal to such excess by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated by Citigroup at least two Business Days prior to such payment date; , , if Legg Mason has a Funding Inability with respect to previously undrawn amounts on or before the 90
provided
however
th
day following the Closing Date, then Legg Mason shall deliver to Citigroup the Legg Mason Note duly executed reflecting a principal amount equal to such excess (effective as of the Closing) or, if the Legg Mason Note has been previously delivered to Citigroup pursuant to Section 2.4(c), the principal amount thereof shall be increased by an amount equal to such excess (effective as of the Closing); or
 
(ii) in the event that the CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet is greater than the CAM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet, Citigroup shall deliver to Legg Mason an amount equal to such excess by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated by Legg Mason at least two Business Days prior to such payment date; , , if the Legg Mason Note has been previously delivered to Citigroup pursuant to Section 2.4(c), the principal amount thereof shall be decreased by an amount equal to such difference (effective as of the Closing); and
provided
however
 
(b) (i) in the event that the PC/CM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet is greater than the PC/CM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet, Citigroup shall deliver to Legg Mason an amount equal to such excess by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated by Legg Mason at least two Business Days prior to such payment date; , , if the Legg Mason Note has been previously delivered to Citigroup pursuant to Section 2.4(c), the principal amount thereof shall be decreased by an amount equal to such difference (effective as of the Closing); or
provided
however
 
(ii) in the event that the PC/CM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet is greater than the PC/CM Tangible Book Value as set forth in the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet, Legg Mason shall deliver to Citigroup an amount equal to such excess by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated by Citigroup at least two Business Days prior to such payment date; , , if Legg Mason has a Funding Inability with respect to previously undrawn amounts on or before the 90
provided
however
th
day following the Closing Date, then Legg Mason shall deliver to Citigroup the Legg Mason Note duly executed reflecting a principal amount equal to such excess (effective as of the Closing) or, if the Legg Mason Note has been previously delivered to Citigroup pursuant to Section 2.4(c), the principal amount thereof shall be increased by an amount equal to such excess (effective as of the Closing); and
 
(c) (i) in the event that the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount determined in accordance with Section 6.14(l) prior to the Closing is greater than the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount finally determined in accordance with Section 3.1, Legg Mason shall deliver to Citigroup an amount equal to such excess by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated by Citigroup at least two Business Days prior to such payment date; or
 
(ii) in the event that the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount finally determined in accordance with Section 3.1 is greater than the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount determined in accordance with Section 6.14(l) prior to the Closing, Citigroup shall deliver to Legg Mason an amount equal to such excess by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated by Legg Mason at least two Business Days prior to such payment date; , , if the Legg Mason Note has been previously delivered to Citigroup pursuant to Section 2.4(c), the principal amount thereof shall be decreased by an amount equal to such difference (effective as of the Closing); and
provided
however
 
(d) (i) in the event that the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount determined in accordance with Section 6.15(l) prior to the Closing is greater than the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount finally determined in accordance with Section 3.2, Legg Mason shall deliver to Citigroup an amount equal to such excess by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated by Citigroup at least two Business Days prior to such payment date; , , if Legg Mason has a Funding Inability with respect to previously undrawn amounts on or before the 90
provided
however
th
day following the Closing Date, then Legg Mason shall deliver to Citigroup the Legg Mason Note duly executed reflecting a principal amount equal to such excess (effective as of the Closing) or, if the Legg Mason Note has been previously delivered to Citigroup pursuant to Section 2.4(c), the principal amount thereof shall be increased by an amount equal to such excess (effective as of the Closing); or
 
(ii) in the event that the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount finally determined in accordance with Section 3.2 is greater than the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount determined in accordance with Section 6.15(l) prior to the Closing, Citigroup shall deliver to Legg Mason an amount equal to such excess by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated by Legg Mason at least two Business Days prior to such payment date; , , if the Legg Mason Note has been previously delivered to Citigroup pursuant to Section 2.4(c), the principal amount thereof shall be decreased by an amount equal to such difference (effective as of the Closing);
provided
however
 
that the parties agree that any cash payments due to the parties or adjustment to the principal amount of the Legg Mason Note pursuant to this Section 3.3(a), (b), (c) and (d) shall be aggregated or netted, as the case may be, so that a single payment is made from one party to the other party or a single adjustment is made to the principal amount of the Legg Mason Note and any such cash payment shall bear interest from the Closing through the date of the payment at the same interest rate as set forth in the promissory notes contemplated under Section 6.23(a) and Section 6.23(d), as applicable.
provided
 
(e) In the event that the capital ratio of the PC/CM Business is less than 15% as calculated using the PC/CM Final Closing Balance Sheet and in accordance with Section 1.3(a)(iii), Legg Mason shall make a payment in cash to the Affiliate of Citigroup as designated by Citigroup in an amount equal to the amount that would have been required to be contributed to the PC/CM Business at the Closing to have the capital ratio equal to 15%, without giving effect to any capital contributions made by Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates to the PC/CM Business to fund the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount.
 
Section 1.13 . Section 3.4 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Post-Closing True-Up
 
Section 3.4 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that:
Post-Closing True-Up
 
(a) any CAM Advisory Client has not, on or prior to the Closing Date, (i) provided its written Consent to the assignment or deemed assignment of its CAM Advisory Contract(s) (each such Person, a "") to the extent required under Section 6.6(a) or (ii) terminated or informed any CAM Subsidiary in writing or orally of its intention to terminate its CAM Advisory Contract(s) and, in either case, has not, on or prior to the first Business Day that is six months after the Closing Date, terminated or informed any CAM Subsidiary in writing or orally of its intention to terminate its CAM Advisory Contract(s); or
True-Up CAM Advisory Client
 
(b) the applicable CAM Advisory Client has, on or prior to the first Business Day that is six months after the Closing Date, terminated or informed any CAM Subsidiary in writing or orally of its intention to terminate a CAM Advisory Contract identified on Annex G;
 
then the Note Principal Amount shall be increased or decreased (effective as of the Closing), as the case may be, by an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the Net Amount calculated using an amount equal to (A) the Aggregate Closing Revenue Run-Rate (B) the increase in such Aggregate Closing Revenue Run-Rate that would have resulted if all of the CAM Advisory Clients referred to in Section 3.4(a) had provided their written Consent in respect of the applicable CAM Advisory Contracts on or prior to the Closing (C) the decrease in such Aggregate Closing Revenue Run-Rate that would have resulted if the applicable CAM Advisory Clients had not been deemed to have provided their Consent in respect of the CAM Advisory Contracts referred to in Section 3.4(b) on or prior to the Closing over (ii) the Net Amount as calculated pursuant to Section 1.2(c) at the Closing; that in no event shall the increase in the Note Principal Amount pursuant to this Section 3.4 exceed the CAM Revenue Adjustment. In the event that the Note Principal Amount is required to be increased pursuant to this Section 3.4, Legg Mason shall deliver to Citigroup an amount equal to such increase by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated at least two Business Days prior to such payment date; , , if Legg Mason had a Funding Inability with respect to previously undrawn amounts on or before the 90
plus
minus
provided
provided
however
th
day following the Closing Date, then Legg Mason shall deliver to Citigroup the Legg Mason Note duly executed reflecting a principal amount equal to such increase (effective as of the Closing) or if the Legg Mason Note has been previously delivered to Citigroup pursuant to Section 2.4(c) or Section 3.3(a), the principal amount of the Legg Mason Note shall be increased by an amount equal to the increase provided for by this Section 3.4 (effective as of the Closing) in lieu of any cash payment. In the event that the Note Principal Amount is required to be decreased pursuant to this Section 3.4, Citigroup shall deliver to Legg Mason an amount equal to such decrease by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated at least two Business Days prior to such payment date; , , if the Legg Mason Note has been previously delivered to Citigroup pursuant to Section 2.4(c) or Section 3.3(a), the principal amount of the Legg Mason Note shall be decreased by an amount equal to the decrease provided for by this Section 3.4 (effective as of the Closing) in lieu of any cash payment. Any cash payment made pursuant to this Section 3.4 shall bear interest from the Closing through the date of the payment at the same interest rate as set forth in the promissory notes contemplated under Section 6.23(a) and Section 6.23(d), as applicable.
provided
however
 
Section 1.14 . Section 3.5(a) of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Allocation of Purchase Price
 
(a) Legg Mason and Citigroup shall endeavor in good faith to agree, within 120 days after the Closing Date, on the allocation of the total consideration paid to the Citigroup Sellers by Legg Mason and its Affiliates pursuant to this Agreement for the CAM Transferred Shares and any assets and/or liabilities used in, or relating to, the CAM Business that are acquired or assumed directly by Legg Mason or an Affiliate of Legg Mason at the Closing (the "") and the allocation of the total consideration paid to the Legg Mason Sellers by Citigroup and its Affiliates pursuant to this Agreement for the PC/CM Transferred Shares (the ""); , , that $44,550,000 of the transaction consideration being given by Legg Mason to Citigroup in the form of PC/CM Transferred Shares shall be allocated to the portion of CAM Transferred Shares constituting the shares of Towarzystwo Funduszy Inwestycyjnych Banku Handlowego S.A. and Handlowy Zarzadzanie Aktywami S.A. that Citigroup will cause Bank Handlowy w Warszawie S.A., one of its Affiliates, to transfer directly to Legg Mason in Poland. Each of the CAM Allocation and the PC/CM Allocation shall be made in accordance with Section 1060 of the Code and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Any amount allocated to any CAM Transferred Shares or any PC/CM Transferred Shares that, in each case, are shares of an entity that is disregarded as separate and apart from its owner for United States federal income tax purposes (a ""), shall be allocated among the assets of such Disregarded Entity in accordance with Section 1060 of the Code and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
CAM Allocation
PC/CM Allocation
provided
however
Disregarded Entity
 
Section 1.15 . References to "Annex B-3" and "Excluded Advisors Contracts" in Section 4.21 of the Original Agreement shall be deemed references to "Annex B-2" and "Excluded Advisory Contracts", respectively.
Revenue-Run Rate Annex
 
Section 1.16 . Section 5.8(a) of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Margin Loans
 
(a) The value of the collateral securing each loan to each PC/CM Customer (collectively, the "") as of the close of business on the Closing Date, (i) is not less than the amount reflected on the books of the PC/CM Business as the value of such collateral as of such date as (A) provided by third party pricing vendors identified in Section 5.8(a) of the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter, (B) provided by other sources as will be disclosed three Business Days prior to the Closing Date, which are engaged by the PC/CM Business to value such collateral in the ordinary course of business consistent with customary industry practice and reasonably acceptable to Citigroup (provided, however, that if any such pricing source is not reasonably acceptable to Citigroup, a third party independent source will be used and provided, further, however, that if no third party independent source is available, the relevant price will be mutually agreed upon by Citigroup and Legg Mason), or (C) in the case of any security for which there is no closing sale price as of such date, reasonably estimated by the Parties, and (ii) satisfies the requirements set forth in Regulation T of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and NYSE Rule 431.
Margin Loans
 
Section 1.17 . (a) Clauses (xii) and (xiii) of Section 6.1(b) of the Original Agreement are amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
Conduct of CAM Business
 
(xii) enter into any Contract, other than (A) Contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business consistent in nature and amount with past practice, (B) Contracts terminable on notice of 60 days or less without the payment of any premium, penalty or fee and (C) Contracts pursuant to which any CAM Subsidiary will receive, or is reasonably expected to receive, payments, or will make, or is reasonably expected to make, payments of less than $5,000,000 in the aggregate per annum and $25,000,000 over the life of such Contract;
 
(xiii) other than in the ordinary course of the CAM Business, enter into, become subject to, amend, terminate or modify in any material respect any Contract of the type described in Section 4.18(a)(i) or (ii);
 
(b) The amendment of clauses (xii) and (xiii) of Section 6.1(b) of the Agreement shall be effective as of June 23, 2005, and any breach of clauses (xii) or (xiii) of Section 6.1(b) of the Original Agreement prior to the date of this Amendment that would not be deemed a breach of such clauses (xii) or (xiii) as hereby amended shall be deemed waived.
 
Section 1.18 . (a) Clauses (xiii) and (xiv) of Section 6.2(b) of the Original Agreement are amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
Conduct of PC/CM Business
 
(xiii) enter into any Contract, other than (A) Contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business consistent in nature and amount with past practice, (B) Contracts terminable on notice of 60 days or less without the payment of any premium, penalty or fee and (C) Contracts pursuant to which any PC/CM Subsidiary will receive, or is reasonably expected to receive, payments, or will make, or is reasonably expected to make, payments of less than $2,500,000 in the aggregate per annum and $12,500,000 over the life of such Contract;
 
(xiv) other than in the ordinary course of the PC/CM Business, enter into, become subject to, amend, terminate or modify in any material respect any Contract of the type described in Section 5.16(a)(i) or (ii);
 
(b) The amendment of clauses (xii) and (xiii) of Section 6.2(b) of the Agreement shall be effective as of June 23, 2005, and any breach of clauses (xii) or (xiii) of Section 6.2(b) of the Original Agreement prior to the date of this Amendment that would not be deemed a breach of such clauses (xii) or (xiii) as hereby amended shall be deemed waived.
 
Section 1.19 . (a) Sections 6.6(a) and 6.6(b)(i) of the Original Agreement are amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
Client and Customer Consents
 
(a) With respect to each CAM Advisory Contract (other than (x) any SMA Contract and (y) any CAM Advisory Contract as set forth in ) for which the Consent of the applicable CAM Advisory Client (other than a CAM Registered Investment Company or a CAM Non-Registered Fund) to the assignment or deemed assignment of such CAM Advisory Contract as a result of
Annex G
 
the Transactions is required pursuant to the Requirements of Law and/or by the terms of such CAM Advisory Contract, as promptly as practicable following the date hereof, Citigroup shall, or shall cause the Citigroup Sellers or one of their respective Affiliates to, send a written notice (a "") informing each such CAM Advisory Client of the Transactions and requesting consent to the assignment or deemed assignment of the applicable CAM Advisory Contract(s). The Parties agree that Consent for any such CAM Advisory Contract and any SMA Contract shall be deemed given for all purposes of this Agreement as follows: (i) for such CAM Advisory Contracts set forth on , upon receipt of written Consent prior to the Closing, (ii) for all other such CAM Advisory Contracts other than SMA Contracts, (A) if written Consent is required pursuant to the Requirements of Law or the applicable CAM Advisory Contract, upon receipt of written Consent prior to the Closing or (B) if Consent other than written Consent is sufficient under Requirements of Law and the applicable CAM Advisory Contract, (x) upon receipt of a written Consent prior to the Closing or (y) if no such written Consent is received, if 45 days shall have passed since the sending of a CAM Negative Consent Notice (which notice must be sent at least 30 days after the initial CAM Notice was sent) and (iii) for those CAM Advisory Contracts that are SMA Contracts, if 45 days shall have passed since the sending of a CAM Negative Consent Notice; , , that, any CAM Advisory Client who has informed any CAM Subsidiary whether orally or in writing of its intention to terminate its CAM Advisory Contract prior to the Closing shall be deemed not to have provided its Consent for any purpose under this Agreement unless, as of the Closing, such notice shall have been rescinded or withdrawn. In the event that a CAM Advisory Contract has been destroyed or otherwise lost, such contract shall be deemed to require Consent other than written Consent for purposes of this Section 6.6(a). All CAM Notices and CAM Negative Consent Notices and related materials distributed to such CAM Advisory Clients shall be in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Legg Mason, and Legg Mason shall be provided the opportunity to review and comment on all such CAM Notices and CAM Negative Consent Notices within a reasonable period of time prior to distribution. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, prior to the Closing, neither Legg Mason or any of its Affiliates nor any of their respective officers, employees and representatives may, directly or indirectly, contact, in writing or otherwise, any CAM Advisory Client or any other Person who acts as an adviser to or consultant for any CAM Advisory Client with respect to this Agreement or the Transactions without the prior approval of Citigroup.
CAM Notice
Annex F
provided
however
 
(b) (i) For each CAM Registered Investment Company, Citigroup shall, and shall cause the Citigroup Sellers or their respective Affiliates to, use reasonable best efforts to obtain in accordance with Section 15 of the Investment Company Act, as promptly as practicable following the date hereof, the approval by the board of directors or trustees of such CAM Registered Investment Company ("") of a new CAM Advisory Contract with such CAM Subsidiary (effective as of the Closing) on terms, taken as a whole, that are no less favorable to the applicable CAM Subsidiary than the terms of such existing
RIC Board Approval
 
CAM Advisory Contract with such CAM Registered Investment Company. To the extent RIC Board Approval has been obtained with respect to a new CAM Advisory Contract in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence, except in the case of any CAM Registered Investment Company for which no shareholder approval is required pursuant to the Requirements of Law, Citigroup shall cause the Citigroup Sellers to use their reasonable best efforts to obtain in accordance with Section 15 of the Investment Company Act, as promptly as practicable following the date hereof, the approval by the shareholders of such CAM Registered Investment Company (except to the extent such shareholder approval is not required by Requirements of Law for the effectiveness of such new CAM Advisory Contract) of such new CAM Advisory Contract described in the immediately preceding sentence. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentences in this subsection (b)(i), in the event that the approval by the shareholders of a CAM Registered Investment Company (to the extent such shareholder approval is required by Requirements of Law for the effectiveness of such new CAM Advisory Contract) of the applicable new CAM Advisory Contract described in the foregoing sentences is not obtained prior to the Closing, Citigroup shall cause the Citigroup Sellers to use their reasonable best efforts to cause the board of directors or trustees of each such CAM Registered Investment Company to approve, in conformity with Rule 15a-4 under the Investment Company Act, an interim CAM Advisory Contract (with respect to each applicable CAM Registered Investment Company, an ""), to be effective at the Closing, for each such CAM Registered Investment Company with the applicable CAM Subsidiary containing the same terms and conditions as the existing applicable CAM Advisory Contract (except as permitted under Rule 15a-4 under the Investment Company Act) with each such CAM Registered Investment Company. For each CAM Registered Investment Company that has entered into an Interim Advisory Contract pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, Legg Mason shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, use commercially reasonable efforts to (x) request the applicable board of directors or trustees of such CAM Registered Investment Company to take such action as may be necessary to re-convene a special meeting of the shareholders of each such CAM Registered Investment Company to be held as promptly as possible after the Closing for the purpose of obtaining the approval by the shareholders of such CAM Registered Investment Company of a new CAM Advisory Contract (with respect to each applicable CAM Registered Investment Company, a "") described in the immediately preceding sentence and (y) take such other actions as may be reasonably necessary to obtain such shareholder approval of a new CAM Advisory Contract; that Citigroup shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, use commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate with any reasonable request of Legg Mason in connection with the efforts taken by Legg Mason pursuant to (x) and (y) above. Any and all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by Legg Mason in connection with the foregoing sentence in this subsection (b)(i) shall be shared equally between Citigroup and Legg Mason. Citigroup and Legg Mason and their respective Affiliates shall, as promptly as practicable following the Closing Date, reasonably cooperate with
Interim Advisory Contract
New Advisory Contract
provided
 
each other's efforts to obtain the approvals expressed in this subsection (b)(i). All proxy and related materials distributed in connection with the approvals described in this paragraph shall be in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Legg Mason, and Legg Mason shall be provided a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on all such materials within a reasonable period of time prior to distribution and filing with any Governmental Authority. The Parties agree that Consent for any CAM Advisory Contract with a CAM Registered Investment Company shall be deemed given for all purposes of this Agreement if the applicable CAM Subsidiary shall have entered into a new CAM Advisory Contract with such CAM Registered Investment Company in accordance with the provisions of this subsection (b) and such CAM Advisory Contract has been approved by shareholders in accordance with Section 15 of the Investment Company Act; , , that any CAM Registered Investment Company that has informed any CAM Subsidiary whether orally or in writing of its intention to terminate its CAM Advisory Contract prior to the Closing shall be deemed not to have provided its Consent for any purpose under this Agreement unless, as of the Closing Date, such notice shall have been rescinded or withdrawn. Legg Mason hereby acknowledges and agrees that it shall not, and shall not permit any of its Affiliates to, directly or indirectly, request or propose to any board of directors or trustees of any CAM Registered Investment Company to take any action in furtherance of the merger (whether effected by way of a merger or reorganization) of any CAM Registered Investment Company with or into any other Person (including any Registered Investment Company sponsored by Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates) on or prior to the Closing without the prior written consent of Citigroup.
provided
however
 
(b) Section 6.6(b)(vi) of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
(vi) The Parties agree that, with respect to (x) any CAM Advisory Contract for which no Consent of the applicable CAM Advisory Client to the assignment or deemed assignment of such CAM Advisory Contract as a result of the Transactions is required pursuant to the Requirements of Law, the terms of such CAM Advisory Contract or, if applicable, the constituent documents of such CAM Advisory Client and (y) any CAM Advisory Contract identified on , (A) Citigroup shall, or shall cause the Citigroup Sellers or one of their respective Affiliates to, send a letter in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Legg Mason and Citigroup Seller informing each such CAM Advisory Client of the Transactions and (B) Consent to the assignment or deemed assignment of such CAM Advisory Contract as a result of the Transactions shall (subject to Section 3.4(b)) be deemed given for all purposes under the Agreement (unless such CAM Advisory Client has informed any CAM Subsidiary in writing of its intention to terminate such CAM Advisory Contract prior to the Closing).
Annex G
 
Section 1.20 . Section 6.8 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Further Assurances
 
Section 6.8 Further Assurances.
 
(a) After the Closing Date, each of Citigroup and Legg Mason shall, and shall cause its Affiliates (including, in the case of Citigroup, the PC/CM Transferred Subsidiaries and, in the case of Legg Mason, the CAM Transferred Subsidiaries) to, execute and deliver at the reasonable request of the other Party such additional documents and instruments (including a bill of sale and assumption agreement or similar agreement substantially in the form of the bill of sale and assumption agreement or similar agreement entered into by Citigroup or its Affiliates or Legg Mason or its Affiliates, as applicable, at the Closing) as may be reasonably required to give effect to this Agreement (including Exhibits H and I) and the Transactions and provide whatever documents or other evidence of ownership as may be reasonably requested by the other to (i) confirm ownership of (A) the CAM Transferred Shares and the assets transferred to it and/or CAM Assets and CAM Liabilities transferred (or intended to be transferred by Exhibit H) to Legg Mason and its Affiliates (including the CAM Transferred Subsidiaries after the Closing) and (B) the Retained CAM Assets and Retained CAM Liabilities transferred (or intended to be transferred by Exhibit H) to Citigroup and its Affiliates, in each case pursuant to Section 6.13 or (ii) confirm ownership of the (A) PC/CM Transferred Shares to Citigroup and its Affiliates and (B) the Legg Mason AM Assets, Legg Mason Mixed Use Assets and Retained PC/CM Liabilities transferred (or intended to be transferred by Exhibit I) to Legg Mason and its Affiliates, in each case pursuant to Section 6.13. The Parties agree that the terms of this Section 6.8 shall apply irrespective of whether an asset, liability or obligation was identified on a bill of sale and assumption agreement or similar agreement entered into pursuant to Exhibit H or Exhibit I if it is mutually agreed by the Parties, or otherwise finally determined, that such asset, liability or obligation should not have been transferred pursuant thereto. The Parties further agree that the terms of this Section 6.8 shall apply irrespective of whether an asset, liability or obligation was identified, or not identified, on a bill of sale and assumption agreement or similar agreement entered into pursuant to Exhibit H or Exhibit I if it is mutually agreed by the Parties, or otherwise finally determined, that such asset, liability or obligation should have been transferred pursuant thereto. The Parties agree that each of them shall cause each of their respective Affiliates to comply with such Affiliate's obligations under this Agreement and the exhibits hereto (including Exhibits H and I) and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
 
(b) The Parties acknowledge the risk that certain CAM Advisory Contracts may be terminated as a result of the Transactions and agree to an adjustment to the consideration payable by Legg Mason for the CAM Transferred Shares which could following the nine-month anniversary of the Closing result in the Note Principal Amount being increased by up to $300,000,000, depending on certain specified CAM Advisory Contracts not being terminated, all as more fully set forth in Section 6.8(b) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter. The Parties agree that Section 6.8(b) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter is incorporated herein by reference and shall be binding as if set forth herein, and the Parties agree to take the actions set forth in Section 6.8(b) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter.
 
(c) From and after the date hereof, Legg Mason shall not, and shall not permit any of its Affiliates to, breach or otherwise violate (or cause Legg Mason Limited to breach or otherwise violate) any of the provisions of any Consultancy Services Agreement to which Legg Mason Limited is a party.
 
(d) (i) In the event the terms of any CAM Lease requires the consent of any third-party landlord to the consummation of the Transactions and, after using commercially reasonable efforts, CAM is unable to obtain the consent of such third-party landlord prior to Closing, the Parties shall cooperate in good faith to develop an appropriate arrangement designed to convey to Legg Mason, to the extent permitted by applicable Requirements of Law, the economic benefits, other rights and associated Liabilities arising from the leasehold interest that would otherwise have been provided to Legg Mason had such consent been obtained. Legg Mason shall reasonably cooperate with Citigroup's efforts to obtain any such consents.
 
(ii) In the event the terms of any PC/CM Lease requires the consent of any third-party landlord to the consummation of the Transactions and, after using commercially reasonable, Legg Mason is unable to obtain the consent of such third-party landlord prior to Closing, the Parties shall cooperate in good faith to develop an appropriate arrangement designed to convey to Citigroup, to the extent permitted by applicable Requirements of Law, the economic benefits, other rights and associated Liabilities arising from the leasehold interest that would otherwise have been provided to Citigroup had such consent been obtained. Citigroup shall reasonably cooperate with Legg Mason's efforts to obtain any such consents.
 
(iii) Citigroup will use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain, prior to Closing, landlord estoppel certificates from third-party landlords under no more than ten (10) CAM Leases (as such CAM Leases shall be designated by Legg Mason). Such estoppel certificates shall be dated not earlier than 90 days prior to Closing and shall be in such form as Legg Mason shall reasonably request, provided that the form of such landlord estoppel certificates shall be subject to the terms of the applicable CAM Lease. In no event shall the failure of a third-party landlord to deliver a landlord estoppel certificate in accordance with the terms of this clause constitute a failure of any condition to Legg Mason's obligation to close in accordance with the terms of Section 7.2.
 
(iv) Legg Mason will use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain, prior to Closing, landlord estoppel certificates from third-party landlords under no more than ten (10) PC/CM Leases (as such PC/CM Leases shall be designated by Citigroup). Such estoppel certificates shall be dated not earlier than 90 days prior to Closing and shall be in such form as Citigroup shall reasonably request, provided that the form of such landlord estoppel certificates shall be subject to the terms of the applicable PC/CM Lease. In no event shall the failure of a third-
 
party landlord to deliver a landlord estoppel certificate in accordance with the terms of this clause constitute a failure of any condition to Citigroup's obligation to close in accordance with the terms of Section 7.3.
 
(v) If after Closing, the tenant under any CAM Lease receives any refund from the applicable landlord or is required to pay to the applicable landlord any amount under such CAM Lease, which such refund or obligation to make such payment, as applicable, accrued prior to Closing, then, in such case, such refund shall be paid to CAM or CAM shall reimburse PC/CM for the applicable payment (as applicable).
 
(vi) If after Closing, the tenant under any PC/CM Lease receives any refund from the applicable landlord or is required to pay to the applicable landlord any amount under such PC/CM Lease, which such refund or obligation to make such payment, as applicable, accrued prior to Closing, then, in such case, such refund shall be paid to Legg Mason or Legg Mason shall reimburse Citigroup for the applicable payment (as applicable).
 
(e) The Parties agree that Citigroup shall be responsible for (and promptly reimburse Legg Mason for) 100% of the reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by Legg Mason or its Affiliates in connection with the lawsuit and arbitration filed against Morgan Keegan, and Citigroup shall be entitled to, and Legg Mason shall promptly pay (or cause to be paid to) Citigroup, 100% of any recovery received by or payable to Legg Mason as a result of such lawsuit and arbitration, net of any such costs and expenses that have not previously been reimbursed to Legg Mason. At Citigroup's request, Legg Mason or its Affiliates shall agree that Citigroup shall be subrogated to any claim brought by Legg Mason or its Affiliates related to such dispute.
 
(f) Following the Closing, Legg Mason agrees to, or to cause its Affiliates (including a CAM Transferred Subsidiary) to, forward (or caused to be forwarded) to the shareholders of the CAM Registered Investment Companies all cash amounts provided by Citigroup or one of its Affiliates to Legg Mason or its Affiliates in immediately available funds that are required to be paid to such shareholders under the TA Order in accordance with the terms thereof; that Legg Mason shall not be required to forward (or cause to be forwarded) any such payments unless and until Citigroup or one of its Affiliates has provided (or caused to be provided) cash in immediately available funds to Legg Mason or its Affiliates in an amount sufficient to make any such payments. Citigroup shall be responsible (and reimburse Legg Mason) for 100% of the reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Legg Mason (or its Affiliates) in connection with the foregoing. Citigroup agrees to reimburse Legg Mason for all such costs and expenses incurred by Legg Mason and its Affiliates within 30 days of a request for payment made by Legg Mason (such request to include reasonably detailed supporting documentation).
provided
 
(g) (i) Legg Mason and Citigroup agree that the CAM Business conducted in Indonesia (the "") should be discontinued and wound up or sold to a third party as promptly as practicable following the Closing and in any event within nine months after the Closing (the ""). Promptly following the date hereof, Legg Mason and Citigroup shall cooperate in good faith in the planning of the Indonesia Wind-Down. From and after the Closing Date, Citigroup shall use commercially reasonable efforts to complete the Indonesia Wind-Down during the nine-month period following the Closing. The Parties agree that (A) Legg Mason shall be responsible for 100% of (and shall reimburse Citigroup and its Affiliates for) (I) all Wind-Down Expenses and (II) all net operating losses of the Indonesia Business during the Wind-Down Period and (B) Citigroup or its Affiliates shall be entitled to retain all proceeds from any such sale of the Indonesia Business, that the amount of expenses that Legg Mason is otherwise responsible for under this Section 6.8(g) shall be reduced by the excess of (x) the amount of the proceeds of any such sale of the Indonesia Business over (y) the book value of the Indonesia Business (as determined in accordance with GAAP) at the time of the consummation of the sale of the Indonesia Business to a third party.
Indonesia Business
Indonesia Wind-Down
provided
 
(ii) As soon as practicable but in no event more than 60 days after completion of the Indonesia Wind-Down, Citigroup shall certify to Legg Mason that the Indonesia Wind-Down has been completed and send an invoice (together with reasonably detailed supporting documentation) to Legg Mason setting forth the amount payable by Legg Mason pursuant to Section 6.8(g)(i), if any. Legg Mason shall pay to Citigroup or its Affiliates, as indicated in the invoice, the amounts due as set forth in the invoice within 30 days of receipt of such invoice. During such 30-day period, Legg Mason shall be provided, subject to the provision contained in Section 6.3, reasonable access to the books and records of Citigroup or its Affiliates relating to the calculation of amounts payable by Legg Mason pursuant to this Section 6.8(g).
 
Section 1.21 . Section 6.10(b) of Original Agreement is amended by adding a new Section 6.10(b)(iii) as follows:
Intercompany Agreements
 
(iii) For the avoidance of doubt, notwithstanding any termination of Contract as a result of this Section 6.10(b), Citigroup and its Affiliates shall be entitled to receive any amount properly reflected as a payable, and shall be required to pay any amount properly reflected as a receivable, on the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and/or the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet arising from such terminated Contract, and Legg Mason and its Affiliates shall be entitled to receive any amount properly reflected as a payable, and shall be required to pay any amount properly reflected as a receivable, on the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and/or the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet arising from such terminated Contract.
 
Section 1.22 . Section 6.11 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Names of Acquired Subsidiaries
 
Section 6.11 .
Names of Acquired Subsidiaries
 
(a) Except as may be provided in the License Agreements, as soon as practicable after the Closing (but in no event later than 20 Business Days thereafter), Legg Mason shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the name of each CAM Registered Investment Company and CAM Non-Registered Fund, as applicable, and shall cause the certificate of incorporation (or equivalent organizational documents) of each CAM Transferred Subsidiary to be amended to remove any reference to the Citigroup Principal Marks or any other Trademarks owned by Citigroup or any of its Affiliates from the name of such Person, and within 90 days from the Closing, Legg Mason shall use its reasonable best efforts to file the applicable documents relating thereto with the appropriate Governmental Authorities, if required pursuant to the Requirements of Law.
 
(b) Except as may be provided in the License Agreements, as soon as practicable after the Closing (but in no event later than 20 Business Days thereafter), Citigroup shall cause the certificate of incorporation (or equivalent organizational documents) of each PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary to be amended to remove any reference to the Legg Mason Principal Marks or any other Trademarks owned by Legg Mason or any of its Affiliates from the name of such PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary, and within 90 days from the Closing, Citigroup shall file the applicable documents relating thereto with the appropriate Governmental Authorities, if required pursuant to the Requirements of Law.
 
Section 1.23 . Section 6.13(a) of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Restructurings
 
(a) Prior to the Closing, Citigroup shall cause the consummation of the transactions and actions contemplated by Exhibit H (such transactions and actions, the ""). For the avoidance of doubt, no Trademark which includes the terms "CITI," "SMITH BARNEY," "SALOMON," "CSSB," "SB," "Uncommon Values," "Uncommon Value," "TRAVELERS" or "BANK HANDLOWY" or any variation thereof or the Arc, Blue Wave or Umbrella design (the "") shall be owned by any CAM Transferred Subsidiary following the CAM Restructuring.
CAM Restructuring
Citigroup Principal Marks
 
Section 1.24 . Section 6.14 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
CAM Employee Matters
 
Section 6.14 .
CAM Employee Matters
 
(a) General
 
(i) Prior to the Closing, to the extent permitted under Requirement of Law and regulatory authority, Citigroup shall take all reasonable actions necessary such that all the CAM Business Employees and only the CAM Business Employees shall be employed by a CAM Transferred Subsidiary; , , that Citigroup may cause the transfer of employment of any CAM Non-
provided
however
 
Continuing Business Employee to any Subsidiary of Citigroup other than a CAM Transferred Subsidiary (any such employee who is so transferred, a "").
CAM Transferred Non-Continuing Business Employee
 
(ii) No later than 30 days prior to the Closing Date, Legg Mason shall offer employment to be effective as of the Closing to each CAM Business Employee employed in the United States (a ""), other than any U.S. CAM Business Employee employed by a CAM Transferred Subsidiary, any CAM Non-Continuing Business Employee, and any CAM Leave Employee, on terms and conditions such that the termination by Citigroup or any of its Affiliates of such employee's employment would not entitle such employee to severance under Appendix C of the plan attached hereto as Section 6.14(a) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter (the "").
U.S. CAM Business Employee
CAM Severance Plan
 
(iii) In addition, no later than 30 days prior to the Closing Date, Legg Mason shall offer employment to be effective as of the Closing Date to each CAM Business Employee employed outside of the United States (a ""), other than any Non-U.S. CAM Business Employee employed by a CAM Transferred Subsidiary, any CAM Non-Continuing Business Employee, and any CAM Leave Employee on terms and conditions which replicate (to the extent (a) required by applicable local Requirement of Law and (b) practicable if Citigroup shall not have supplied to Legg Mason the information described in Section 6.14(m) hereof) the terms and conditions in effect with respect to such employee immediately prior to the Closing Date.
Non-U.S. CAM Business Employee
 
(iv) After the Closing, subject to the second sentence of Section 6.14(a)(v), Legg Mason shall offer employment to each CAM Business Employee listed on Section 6.14(a)(iii) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter (a "") effective as of such time as the CAM Leave Employee actually reports for active employment with Legg Mason promptly following release by such employee's physician to return to active employment or promptly following expiration of approved leave; , , that Legg Mason shall not be required to offer employment under this provision to any CAM Leave Employee who does not apply for such employment within 180 days following the Closing Date. Citigroup shall retain liability and responsibility for any CAM Leave Employee until such employee becomes an employee of Legg Mason or, if earlier, until such employee's employment with Citigroup terminates. Legg Mason shall assume all liabilities and responsibilities for each CAM Leave Employee accruing on and after the date such CAM Leave Employee becomes an employee of Legg Mason.
CAM Leave Employee
provided
however
 
(v) In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, in no event shall the failure by Legg Mason to make an offer to a CAM Business Employee employed by a CAM Transferred Subsidiary on the Closing Date constitute a breach of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by applicable Requirement of Law, Legg Mason may make its offer of employment contingent on (a) the CAM Business Employee consenting to,
 
cooperating with, and satisfying Legg Mason's standard new-employee on-boarding process, including background checks, fingerprinting and drug testing; (b) if applicable, the CAM Business Employee providing evidence that complies with the Immigration and Reform Control Act of 1986 that he or she is eligible for employment; and (c) the CAM Business Employee executing Legg Mason's standard employment application, receipt and acknowledgement of Legg Mason's employee handbook (which includes, among other things, Legg Mason's Code of Conduct and Insider Trading Policy) and FCRA Release as required by Legg Mason. Any CAM Business Employee who fails to comply with any of such requirements is hereinafter referred to as an "."
Excluded CAM Business Employee
 
(vi) Each CAM Business Employee who either accepts an offer of employment under Section 6.14(a) (other than an Excluded CAM Business Employee) or who is employed by the CAM Transferred Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date is referred to herein as a "." Subject to Section 6.14(b), nothing in this Agreement shall in any way limit the ability of Legg Mason or its Affiliates to terminate the employment of any CAM Continuing Business Employee.
CAM Continuing Business Employee
 
(b) If any CAM Business Employee who does not become a CAM Continuing Business Employee in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (other than any Excluded CAM Business Employee or any CAM Transferred Non-Continuing Business Employee) becomes entitled to severance, redundancy or other similar types of payments or benefits as a result of or in connection with the Transactions (including salary paid in lieu of notice required by the WARN Act as a result of or in connection with the Transactions), Legg Mason shall be responsible (or shall reimburse Citigroup) for any such payments or benefits; provided, however, that Legg Mason shall not be responsible for any such payments or benefits provided to (i) any individual not employed by a CAM Transferred Subsidiary who receives an offer of employment from Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates, which offer satisfies the requirements of Section 6.14(a) or (ii) any CAM Leave Employee who does not report for employment with Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates in accordance with Section 6.14(a)(iv) or who receives an offer of employment from Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates, which offer satisfies the requirements of Section 6.14(a). For a period commencing on the Closing and ending on the first anniversary of the Closing, Legg Mason shall provide (to the extent practicable in a manner that complies with Section 409A of the Code) to each CAM Continuing Business Employee whose employment is terminated by Legg Mason, or at the request of Legg Mason, following the Closing Date in a manner that would entitle such CAM Continuing Business Employee to severance payments and benefits under the CAM Severance Plan (a ""), severance payments and benefits not less favorable than the greater of the severance payments and benefits that would have been provided to such CAM Continuing Business Employee under the severance provisions described in Section 6.15(a)(ii) of the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter and the CAM Severance Plan, as in effect on the date hereof, taking into account
CAM Qualifying Termination
 
all service with Legg Mason and its Affiliates from and after the Closing Date plus all service recognized by Citigroup or one of its Affiliates prior to the Closing.
 
(c) To the extent permitted by applicable Requirement of Law, prior to the first anniversary of the Closing Date, Citigroup shall not, and shall not permit any of its Affiliates to, directly or indirectly, solicit or offer employment to any CAM Business Employee (including, but not limited to, Excluded CAM Business Employees); provided that the foregoing provision shall not prohibit Citigroup or any of its Affiliates from soliciting or offering employment to persons (i) who respond to a general solicitation or advertisement that is not specifically directed only to CAM Business Employees (and nothing shall prohibit the making of any such solicitation or advertisement), (ii) who are referred to Citigroup by search firms, employment agencies or other similar entities, provided that such entities have been advised of the restrictions contained in this Agreement and have not been specifically instructed by Citigroup to solicit the CAM Business Employees, (iii) who incur a CAM Qualifying Termination, (iv) who are CAM Non-Continuing Business Employees and (v) who are CAM Continuing Business Employees who have been notified in writing by Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates that their employment will be terminated prior to the first anniversary of the Closing Date (the ""). No offer of employment by Citigroup or one of its Affiliates to any CAM Transitional Business Employee shall be effective prior to the employee's last scheduled day of employment as specified in the notice referred to in the previous sentence. Legg Mason shall, no later than 90 days following the date hereof, provide to Citigroup a list of those CAM Business Employees whom Legg Mason has determined it does not intend to continue to employ following the Closing Date (each, a "").
CAM Transitional Business Employees
CAM Non-Continuing Business Employee
 
(d) From the Closing Date through the first anniversary of the Closing Date, Legg Mason shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, to the U.S. CAM Business Employees who are also CAM Continuing Business Employees, as a group, compensation and benefits that are no less favorable in the aggregate than those provided to similarly situated employees of Legg Mason; , , that the determination of whether such compensation and benefits are no less favorable shall not take into account (i) any defined benefit pension plan and (ii) retiree medical benefits. From the Closing Date through the first anniversary of the Closing Date, Legg Mason shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, to each Non-U.S. CAM Business Employee who is also a CAM Continuing Business Employee, base pay and benefits that are no less favorable than those provided to such Non-U.S. CAM Business Employee immediately prior to the Closing Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent any CAM Continuing Business Employee is subject to a transition services agreement that provides for such employee to be covered by benefit plans of Citigroup or its Affiliates until a date following the Closing Date, the applicable protection period with respect to benefits shall begin on the date on which the CAM Continuing Business Employee commences participation in the benefit plans of Legg Mason or its Affiliates and end on the first anniversary of the Closing Date.
provided
however
 
(e) Effective as of the Closing Date or, for any CAM Continuing Business Employee who is subject to a transition services agreement that provides for such employee to be covered by benefit plans of Citigroup or its Affiliates until a date following the Closing Date, effective as of the date on which the CAM Continuing Business Employee commences participation in the benefit plans of Legg Mason or its Affiliates (the applicable date, the ""), Legg Mason shall (i) use reasonable efforts to waive all limitations as to pre-existing conditions, exclusions and waiting periods with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to CAM Continuing Business Employees under any health and welfare plan of Legg Mason or its Affiliates in which such CAM Continuing Business Employees may be eligible to participate after the CAM Benefit Transfer Date, to the extent that such conditions, exclusions and waiting periods would have been waived or satisfied under the corresponding health and welfare plan in which any such CAM Continuing Business Employee participated immediately prior to the CAM Benefit Transfer Date, (ii) use reasonable efforts to cause to be provided to each CAM Continuing Business Employee credit for any co-payments and deductibles paid in the plan year in which the CAM Benefit Transfer Date occurs in satisfying any applicable deductible or out-of-pocket requirements under any health and welfare plans of Legg Mason or its Affiliates in which such CAM Continuing Business Employees may be eligible to participate after the CAM Benefit Transfer Date and (iii) cause to be provided to each CAM Continuing Business Employee credit for all purposes (including eligibility, vesting and amount of benefits), for all service recognized by Citigroup or its Affiliates under the corresponding CAM Benefit Plan, under each employee benefit plan, program or arrangement of Legg Mason or its Affiliates in which such CAM Continuing Business Employees are eligible to participate after the CAM Benefit Transfer Date; , , that in no event shall the CAM Continuing Business Employees be entitled to service credit to the extent that such service credit would result in a duplication of benefits with respect to the same period of service.
CAM Benefit Transfer Date
provided
however
 
(f) Without in any way limiting the provisions of Section 6.14(d), as of the CAM Benefit Transfer Date, Legg Mason shall, in a manner that is intended to comply with Section 125 of the Code, use its reasonable efforts to cause each CAM Continuing Business Employee who participates in the Health Care Flexible Spending Account of Citigroup or any Affiliate of Citigroup (the "") to be credited under the Health Care Flexible Spending Account of Legg Mason or any Affiliate of Legg Mason (the "") with amounts that give effect to elections made by the CAM Continuing Business Employee under the Citigroup FSA for the plan year in which the CAM Benefit Transfer Date occurs.
Citigroup FSA
Legg Mason FSA
 
(g) Without in any way limiting the provisions of Section 6.14(d), as of the CAM Benefit Transfer Date, Legg Mason shall, in a manner that is intended to
 
comply with Section 125 of the Code, use its reasonable efforts to cause each CAM Continuing Business Employee who participates in the Dependant Care Spending Account of Citigroup or any Affiliate of Citigroup (the "") to be credited under the Dependent Care Spending Account of Legg Mason or any Affiliate of Legg Mason (the "") with amounts that give effect to elections made by the CAM Continuing Business Employee under the Citigroup DCAP for the plan year in which the CAM Benefit Transfer Date occurs.
Citigroup DCAP
Legg Mason DCAP
 
(h) Effective as of the Closing, no CAM Continuing Business Employee shall actively participate in the Citigroup 401(k) Plan. Effective as of the Closing Date, CAM Continuing Business Employees who participate in the Citigroup 401(k) Plan (the "") shall immediately be 100% vested in their individual account balances under the Citigroup 401(k) Plan. Unless otherwise required by Requirements of Law, on or after January 1, 2006, such account balances may be transferred by the CAM 401(k) Participants to the Legg Mason Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan and Trust (the "") in a rollover contribution. Prior to the Closing Date, Legg Mason shall, to the extent necessary, amend the Legg Mason 401(k) Plan to the extent necessary to enable CAM 401(k) Participants to make rollover contributions to the Legg Mason 401(k) Plan, which, only in the case of a CAM 401(k) Participant who rolls over his or her account balance within 90 days following the Closing Date, may include any outstanding loans from the Citigroup 401(k) Plan. Effective as of the Closing, Citigroup shall fully vest each CAM Continuing Business Employee in his or her accrued benefit under the Citigroup Pension Plan.
CAM 401(k) Participants
Legg Mason 401(k) Plan
 
(i) Citigroup shall cause all CAM Continuing Business Employees who participate in the Citigroup 401(k) Plan as of the Closing Date to receive a pro rata matching contribution, at the rate specified in the Citigroup 401(k) Plan for the plan year that includes the Closing Date, which matching contribution shall otherwise be made in accordance with the terms of the Citigroup 401(k) Plan.
 
(j) Legg Mason shall be obligated to pay CAM Continuing Business Employees entitled to annual cash bonuses under each of the CAM Benefit Plans that provide for payment of annual cash bonuses (which CAM Benefit Plans are listed in Section 6.14(j) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter) the annual cash bonuses for (i) the bonus year of the CAM Subsidiaries that includes the Closing Date (the "") and (ii) the bonus year of the CAM Subsidiaries completed prior to the Current CAM Bonus Year (the ""), in each case if not previously paid. The liability for the pro rata portion of the annual cash bonuses that Legg Mason is obligated to pay for the Current CAM Bonus Year shall be included on the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet. The liability for the pro rata portion described in the preceding sentence shall be the amount determined under the annual cash bonus plans and formulas of Citigroup in effect on the date of this Agreement. A liability for annual cash bonuses Legg Mason may be obligated to pay for the Prior CAM Bonus Year, if any, shall be included
Current CAM Bonus Year
Prior CAM Bonus Year
 
on the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet, and shall be the amount determined by Citigroup under the annual cash bonus plans and formulas of Citigroup in effect during such year. The actual amount of the annual cash bonuses to be paid (or vested, but payable in the future) by Legg Mason to CAM Continuing Business Employees for the Current CAM Bonus Year and, if applicable, the Prior CAM Bonus Year, shall be made in a manner, to the extent practicable, that complies with Section 409A of the Code and in no event be less than the amount of the liability calculated pursuant to this Section 6.14(j). Citigroup agrees to consult in a reasonable and timely manner with Legg Mason in respect of the amount of any prior cash bonuses and annual cash bonuses payable to U.S. CAM Business Employees who are reasonably expected to become CAM Continuing Business Employees for the bonus year, if any, of the CAM Subsidiaries that ends after the date of this Agreement but prior to the Closing Date.
 
(k) Effective immediately prior to the Closing, Citigroup shall in a manner, to the extent practicable, that complies with Section 409A of the Code, cause each unvested stock option to purchase shares of Citigroup common stock that was granted to a CAM Continuing Business Employee other than a CAM Transferred Non-Continuing Business Employee pursuant to each of the CAM Benefit Plans listed in Section 6.14(k)(i) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter to become fully vested, and once fully vested, such stock option shall remain exercisable in accordance with its terms; , , that with respect to each CAM Business Employee listed in Section 6.14(k)(ii) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter, each such unvested stock option shall vest if and only at such time that such CAM Business Employee commences employment with Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates following acceptance of an offer made pursuant to Section 6.14(a)(iii) of this Agreement or, if earlier, such CAM Business Employee's employment is terminated in manner entitling such employee to severance pursuant to Section 6.14(b) of this Agreement.
provided
however
 
(l) In respect of each CAM Continuing Business Employee who, as a result of the Closing, forfeits (i) Citigroup restricted shares, phantom shares, or deferred stock units that were granted pursuant to any of the CAM Benefit Plans listed in Section 6.14(l) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter (each, a "") and/or (ii) any portion of his or her account under the CAM Deferred Incentive Plan (such portion, the ""), Legg Mason shall establish, in a manner, to the extent practicable, that complies with Section 409A of the Code effective as of the Closing Date, one or more replacement awards the aggregate value of which shall be based on the sum of (i) the aggregate number of shares of Citigroup Common Stock underlying the CAM Forfeited Equity Awards multiplied by the average of the high and low trading prices of Citigroup Common Stock on the Closing Date and (ii) the unvested account balances as of the Closing Date attributable to the Forfeited DIP Account (the ""). Each replacement award granted in respect of a CAM Forfeited Equity Award that it replaces shall be made in or denominated in shares of Legg Mason common stock or another notional
CAM Forfeited Equity Award
Forfeited DIP Account
Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount
 
investment alternative with a value equal to the value of the shares underlying the CAM Forfeited Equity Award and shall otherwise contain terms and conditions that are no less favorable to the CAM Continuing Business Employee than those that would have applied if the CAM Forfeited Equity Award had continued to remain outstanding. Similarly, each replacement award granted in respect of a Forfeited DIP Account shall have a cash value (which may be denominated in stock or notional alternative investments, as determined by Legg Mason in its discretion) equal to the cash value of the Forfeited DIP Account on the first business day immediately preceding the Closing Date if such account had vested and been paid in accordance with the CAM Deferred Incentive Plan and shall otherwise contain terms and conditions that are no less favorable to the CAM Continuing Business Employee than those that would have applied if the employee had continued in employment with Citigroup or one of its Affiliates. For the purposes of each replacement award, to the extent applicable, service with Citigroup and its Affiliates shall be considered to be service with Legg Mason and its Affiliates for periods on and after the Closing Date. On the Closing Date prior to the Closing, Citigroup shall contribute to the capital of the CAM Transferred Subsidiaries an amount equal to the Citigroup Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount.
 
(m) No later than sixty (60) days after the date hereof, to the extent permitted by Requirement of Law, Citigroup shall deliver to Legg Mason the name, social security (or similar foreign term), home address, home telephone number, current annual salary rates, bonuses, deferred or contingent compensation, accrued vacation, and other like benefits paid or payable (in cash or otherwise), date of employment and job title of each CAM Continuing Business Employee. Citigroup shall use reasonable efforts to update the information provided pursuant the foregoing sentence as reasonably requested by Legg Mason.
 
(n) As soon as reasonably practicable following the date hereof, and in any event not later than sixty (60) days following the date hereof, Citigroup shall use reasonable efforts to provide Legg Mason with a list of each of the CAM Foreign Benefit Plans and (in each case, only if applicable) (i) each trust or other funding arrangement related for each such plan, and (ii) each summary plan description and summary of material modifications for each such plan.
 
(o) On or following the Closing, Citigroup or one of its Affiliates shall transfer to Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates (other than a PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary) the assets identified in Section 6.14(o) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter and Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates (other than a PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary) shall assume the liabilities described in Section 6.14(o) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter. In furtherance of the foregoing, each of Citigroup and Legg Mason shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, execute and deliver such documents and instruments as may be reasonably required to give effect to the foregoing transfer and assumption.
 
Section 1.25 . Section 6.15 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
PC/CM Employee Matters
 
Section 6.15 .
PC/CM Employee Matters
 
(a) General
 
(i) Prior to the Closing, to the extent permitted under Requirement of Law and regulatory authority, Legg Mason shall take all reasonable actions necessary such that all the PC/CM Business Employees and only the PC/CM Business Employees shall be employed by a PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary; , , that Legg Mason may cause the transfer of employment of any PC/CM Non-Continuing Business Employee to any Subsidiary of Legg Mason other than a PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary (any such employee who is so transferred, a "").
provided
however
PC/CM Transferred Non-Continuing Business Employee
 
(ii) No later than 30 days prior to the Closing Date, Citigroup shall offer employment to be effective as of the Closing to each PC/CM Business Employee employed in the United States (a ""), other than any U.S. PC/CM Business Employee employed by a PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary, any PC/CM Non-Continuing Business Employee, and any PC/CM Leave Employee on terms and conditions such that the termination by Legg Mason or any of its Affiliates of such employee's employment would not entitle such employee to severance under Appendix F of the CAM Severance Plan (if such employee was an eligible salaried participant in such plan).
U.S. PC/CM Business Employee
 
(iii) In addition, no later than 30 days prior to the Closing Date, Citigroup shall offer employment to be effective as of the Closing Date to each PC/CM Business Employee employed outside of the United States (a ""), other than any Non-U.S. PC/CM Business Employee employed by a PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary, any PC/CM Non-Continuing Business Employee, and any PC/CM Leave Employee on terms and conditions which replicate (to the extent required by applicable local Requirement of Law) the terms and conditions in effect with respect to such employee immediately prior to the Closing Date.
Non-U.S. PC/CM Business Employee
 
(iv) After the Closing, subject to the second sentence of Section 6.15(a)(v), Citigroup shall offer employment to each PC/CM Business Employee listed on Section 6.15(a)(iii) of the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter (a "") effective as of such time as the PC/CM Leave Employee actually reports for active employment with Citigroup promptly following release by such employee's physician to return to active employment or promptly following expiration of approved leave; , , that Citigroup shall not be required to offer employment under this provision to any PC/CM Leave Employee who does not apply for such employment within 180 days following the Closing Date. Legg Mason shall retain liability and responsibility for any PC/CM Leave Employee until such employee becomes an employee of Citigroup or, if earlier, until such employee's employment with Legg Mason terminates.
PC/CM Leave Employee
provided
however
 
Citigroup shall assume all liabilities and responsibilities for each PC/CM Leave Employee accruing on and after the date such PC/CM Leave Employee becomes an employee of Citigroup.
 
(v) In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, in no event shall the failure by Citigroup to make an offer to a PC/CM Business Employee employed by a PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary on the Closing Date constitute a breach of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by applicable Requirement of Law, Citigroup may make its offer of employment contingent on (a) the PC/CM Business Employee consenting to, cooperating with, and satisfying Citigroup's standard new-employee on-boarding process, including background checks, fingerprinting and drug testing; (b) if applicable, the PC/CM Business Employee providing evidence that complies with the Immigration and Reform Control Act of 1986 that he or she is eligible for employment; and (c) the PC/CM Business Employee executing Citigroup's standard Principles of Employment, confidentiality, Code of Conduct, arbitration and conflict of interest agreements as required by Citigroup. Any PC/CM Business Employee who fails to comply with any of such requirements is hereinafter referred to as an "."
Excluded PC/CM Business Employee
 
(vi) Each PC/CM Business Employee who either accepts an offer of employment under Section 6.15(a) (other than an Excluded PC/CM Business Employee) or who is employed by the PC/CM Transferred Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date is referred to herein as a "." Subject to Section 6.15(b), nothing in this Agreement shall in any way limit the ability of Citigroup or its Affiliates to terminate the employment of any PC/CM Continuing Business Employee.
PC/CM Continuing Business Employee
 
(b) If any PC/CM Business Employee who does not become a PC/CM Continuing Business Employee in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (other than any Excluded PC/CM Business Employee or any PC/CM Transferred Non-Continuing Business Employee) becomes entitled to severance, redundancy or other similar types of payments or benefits as a result of or in connection with the Transactions (including salary paid in lieu of notice required by the WARN Act as a result of or in connection with the Transactions), Citigroup shall be responsible (or shall reimburse Legg Mason) for any such payments or benefits; provided, however, that Citigroup shall not be responsible for any such payments or benefits provided to (i) any individual not employed by a PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary who receives an offer of employment from Citigroup or one of its Affiliates, which offer satisfies the requirements of Section 6.15(a) (such individual, a "") or (ii) any PC/CM Leave Employee who does not report for employment with Citigroup or one of its Affiliates in accordance with Section 6.15(a)(iv) or who receives an offer of employment from Citigroup or one of its Affiliates, which offer satisfies the requirements of Section 6.15(a). For a period commencing on the Closing and ending on the first anniversary of the Closing, Citigroup shall provide (to the extent practicable, in a manner that complies with Section 409A of the Code) to
PC/CM Non-Accepting Business Employee
 
each PC/CM Continuing Business Employee (other than a PC/CM Continuing Business Employee who is employed on a part-time, temporary or contractual basis) whose employment is terminated by Citigroup, or at the request of Citigroup, following the Closing Date in a manner that would entitle such PC/CM Continuing Business Employee to severance payments and benefits under the CAM Severance Plan (a ""), severance payments and benefits not less favorable than the greater of the severance payments and benefits described in Section 6.15(a)(ii) of the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter and the severance payments and benefits that would have been provided to such PC/CM Continuing Business Employee under the severance provisions for eligible salaried employees under Appendix F to the CAM Severance Plan, as in effect on the date hereof, taking into account all service with Citigroup and its Affiliates from and after the Closing Date plus all service recognized by Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates prior to the Closing; provided, however, that Citigroup shall indemnify Legg Mason to the extent Legg Mason is required to make any payments or provide any benefits to any PC/CM Business Employee, other than a PC/CM Non-Accepting Business Employee, for any severance entitlements in excess of those contemplated by this Section 6.15(b) in connection with any such termination of employment. Legg Mason shall indemnify Citigroup to the extent Citigroup is required to make any payments or provide any benefits pursuant to a severance plan or policy of Legg Mason or any of its Affiliates in effect prior to the Closing on account of the deemed termination of employment of a PC/CM Business Employee employed by a PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary with Legg Mason and its Affiliates on the Closing Date.
PC/CM Qualifying Termination
 
(c) To the extent permitted by applicable Requirement of Law, prior to the first anniversary of the Closing Date, Legg Mason shall not, and shall not permit any of its Affiliates to, directly or indirectly, solicit or offer employment to any PC/CM Business Employee (including, but not limited to, Excluded PC/CM Business Employees) or any Services Agreement Employees; that the foregoing provision shall not prohibit Legg Mason or any of its Affiliates from soliciting or offering employment to persons (i) who respond to a general solicitation or advertisement that is not specifically directed only to PC/CM Business Employees or any Services Agreement Employees (and nothing shall prohibit the making of any such solicitation or advertisement), (ii) who are referred to Legg Mason by search firms, employment agencies or other similar entities, provided that such entities have been advised of the restrictions contained in this Agreement and have not been specifically instructed by Legg Mason to solicit the PC/CM Business Employees or any Services Agreement Employees, (iii) who incur a PC/CM Qualifying Termination, (iv) who are PC/CM Non-Continuing Business Employees and (v) who are PC/CM Continuing Business Employees who have been notified in writing by Citigroup or one of its Affiliates that their employment will be terminated prior to the first anniversary of the Closing Date (the ""). No offer of employment by Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates to any PC/CM Transitional Business Employee shall be effective prior to the employee's last scheduled day of employment as specified in the notice referred to in the previous sentence.
provided
PC/CM Transitional Business Employees
 
Citigroup shall, no later than 90 days following the date hereof, provide to Legg Mason a list of those PC/CM Business Employees whom Citigroup has determined it does not intend to continue to employ following the Closing Date (each, a "").
PC/CM Non-Continuing Business Employee
 
(d) From the Closing Date through the first anniversary of the Closing Date, Citigroup shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, to the U.S. PC/CM Business Employees who are also PC/CM Continuing Business Employees, as a group, compensation and benefits that are no less favorable in the aggregate than those provided to similarly situated employees of Citigroup; , , that the determination of whether such compensation and benefits are no less favorable shall not take into account (i) any defined benefit pension plan which does not admit new participants and (ii) retiree medical benefits. From the Closing Date through the first anniversary of the Closing Date, Citigroup shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, to each Non-U.S. PC/CM Business Employee who is also a PC/CM Continuing Business Employee, base pay and benefits that are no less favorable than those provided to such Non-U.S. PC/CM Business Employee immediately prior to the Closing Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent any PC/CM Continuing Business Employee is subject to a transition services agreement that provides for such employee to be covered by benefit plans of Legg Mason or its Affiliates until a date following the Closing Date, the applicable protection period with respect to benefits shall begin on the date on which the PC/CM Continuing Business Employee commences participation in benefit plans of Citigroup or its Affiliates and end on the first anniversary of the Closing Date.
provided
however
 
(e) Effective as of the Closing Date or, for any PC/CM Continuing Business Employee who is subject to a transition services agreement that provides for such employee to be covered by benefit plans of Legg Mason or its Affiliates until a date following the Closing Date, effective as of the date on which the PC/CM Continuing Business Employee commences participation in the benefit plans of Citigroup or its Affiliates (the applicable date, the ""), Citigroup shall (i) use reasonable efforts to waive all limitations as to pre-existing conditions, exclusions and waiting periods with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to PC/CM Continuing Business Employees under any health and welfare plan of Citigroup or its Affiliates in which such PC/CM Continuing Business Employees may be eligible to participate after the PC/CM Benefit Transfer Date, to the extent that such conditions, exclusions and waiting periods would have been waived or satisfied under the corresponding health and welfare plan in which any such PC/CM Continuing Business Employee participated immediately prior to the PC/CM Benefit Transfer Date, (ii) use reasonable efforts to cause to be provided to each PC/CM Continuing Business Employee credit for any co-payments and deductibles paid in the plan year in which the PC/CM Benefit Transfer Date occurs in satisfying any applicable deductible or out-of-pocket requirements under any health and welfare plans of Citigroup or its Affiliates in which such PC/CM Continuing Business Employees may be eligible to participate after the PC/CM Benefit Transfer Date
PC/CM Benefit Transfer Date
 
and (iii) cause to be provided to each PC/CM Continuing Business Employee credit for all purposes (including eligibility, vesting and amount of benefits), for all service recognized by Legg Mason or its Affiliates under the corresponding PC/CM Benefit Plan, under each employee benefit plan, program or arrangement of Citigroup or its Affiliates in which such PC/CM Continuing Business Employees are eligible to participate after the PC/CM Benefit Transfer Date; , , that in no event shall the PC/CM Continuing Business Employees be entitled to service credit to the extent that such service credit would result in a duplication of benefits with respect to the same period of service.
provided
however
 
(f) Without in any way limiting the provisions of Section 6.15(d), as of the PC/CM Benefit Transfer Date, Citigroup shall, in a manner that is intended to comply with Section 125 of the Code, use its reasonable efforts to cause each PC/CM Continuing Business Employee who participates in the Legg Mason FSA to be credited under the Citigroup FSA with amounts that give effect to elections made by the PC/CM Continuing Business Employee under the Legg Mason FSA for the plan year in which the PC/CM Benefit Transfer Date occurs.
 
(g) Without in any way limiting the provisions of Section 6.15(d), as of the PC/CM Benefit Transfer Date, Citigroup shall, in a manner that is intended to comply with Section 125 of the Code, use its reasonable efforts to cause each PC/CM Continuing Business Employee who participates in the Legg Mason DCAP to be credited under the Citigroup DCAP or any Affiliate of Citigroup with amounts that give effect to elections made by the PC/CM Continuing Business Employee under the Legg Mason DCAP for the plan year in which the PC/CM Benefit Transfer Date occurs.
 
(h) Prior to the Closing Date, Legg Mason Sellers shall take all actions necessary to (i) terminate the status of Legg Mason Wood Walker as the "sponsoring employer" under the Legg Mason 401(k) Plan and (ii) cause the Legg Mason 401(k) Plan and related trust to be transferred to, and assumed by (including all Liabilities relating thereto) Legg Mason or a Subsidiary of Legg Mason (other than a PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary). Effective as of the Closing Date, no PC/CM Continuing Business Employee shall actively participate in the Legg Mason 401(k) Plan. Effective as of the Closing Date, PC/CM Continuing Business Employees who participate in the Legg Mason 401(k) Plan (the "") shall immediately be 100% vested in their individual account balances under the Legg Mason 401(k) Plan. Unless otherwise required by Requirements of Law, on or after January 1, 2006, such account balances may be transferred by the PC/CM 401(k) Participants to the Citigroup 401(k) Plan in a rollover contribution. Prior to the Closing Date, Citigroup shall amend the Citigroup 401(k) Plan to the extent necessary to enable the PC/CM 401(k) Participants to make rollover contributions to the Citigroup 401(k) Plan, which, only in the case of a PC/CM 401(k) Participant who rolls over his or her account balance within 90 days following the Closing Date, may include any outstanding loans from the Legg Mason 401(k) Plan.
PC/CM 401(k) Participants
 
(i) Legg Mason shall cause all PC/CM Continuing Employees who participate in the Legg Mason 401(k) Plan as of the Closing Date to receive a pro rata matching and profit sharing contribution, as applicable, at the rate specified in the Legg Mason 401(k) Plan for the plan year that includes the Closing Date, which matching and profit sharing contribution, as applicable, shall otherwise be made in accordance with the terms of the Legg Mason 401(k) Plan.
 
(j) Citigroup shall be obligated to pay PC/CM Continuing Business Employees entitled to annual bonuses under each of the PC/CM Benefit Plans that provide for payment of annual bonuses (which PC/CM Benefit Plans are listed in Section 6.15(j) of the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter) the annual bonuses for (i) the bonus year of the PC/CM Subsidiaries that includes the Closing Date (the "") and (ii) the bonus year of the PC/CM Subsidiaries completed prior to the Current PC/CM Bonus Year (the "Prior PC/CM Bonus Year"), in each case if not previously paid. The liability for the pro rata portion of the annual bonuses that Citigroup is obligated to pay for the Current PC/CM Bonus Year shall be included on the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet. The liability for the pro rata portion described in the preceding sentence shall be the aggregate amount of the annual bonus pool available for payment to the PC/CM Continuing Employees based upon performance measured during the Current PC/CM Bonus Year through the most practicable date prior to the Closing Date. A liability for annual bonuses Citigroup may be obligated to pay for the Prior PC/CM Bonus Year, if any, shall be included on the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet, and the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet, and shall be based on performance during the Prior PC/CM Bonus Year. The actual amount of the annual bonuses to be paid (or vested, but payable in the future) by Citigroup to PC/CM Continuing Business Employees for the Current PC/CM Bonus Year and, if applicable, the Prior PC/CM Bonus Year, shall be made in a manner, to the extent practicable, that complies with Section 409A of the Code and in no event be less than the amount of the liability calculated pursuant to this Section 6.15(j). Legg Mason agrees to consult in a reasonable and timely manner with Citigroup in respect of the amount of any prior bonuses and annual bonuses payable to U.S. PC/CM Business Employees who are reasonably expected to become PC/CM Continuing Business Employees for the bonus year, if any, of the PC/CM Subsidiaries that ends after the date of this Agreement but prior to the Closing Date.
Current PC/CM Bonus Year
 
(k) Except as set forth in the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter, effective immediately prior to the Closing, Legg Mason shall in a manner, to the extent practicable, that complies with Section 409A of the Code, (i) cause each unvested stock option to purchase shares of Legg Mason common stock that was granted to a PC/CM Continuing Business Employee (other than to a PC/CM Transferred Non-Continuing Business Employee) pursuant to each of the Legg Mason Benefit Plans and PC/CM Benefit Plans listed in Section 6.15(k)(i) of the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter that is outstanding immediately prior to the Closing to become fully vested, and once vested, such stock option shall remain exercisable in
 
accordance with its terms and (ii) cause each outstanding share of restricted Legg Mason common stock and each phantom stock unit that was granted to a PC/CM Continuing Business Employee (other than to a PC/CM Transferred Non-Continuing Business Employee) pursuant to each of the PC/CM Benefit Plans listed in Section 6.15(k)(ii) of the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter the restrictions of which have not lapsed or have vested, as the case may be, immediately prior to the Closing to become fully vested on the closing date and paid in accordance with the terms of such PC/CM Benefit Plan following the Closing Date. Prior to the Closing Date, Legg Mason shall assume each of the PC/CM Benefit Plans listed in Section 6.15(k)(iii) of the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter and all liabilities thereunder.
 
(l) Prior to the Closing Date, Legg Mason shall in a manner, to the extent practicable, that complies with Section 409A of the Code, to the extent necessary, amend each of the PC/CM Subsidiaries Benefit Plans listed in Section 6.15(l) of the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter (the "") to provide for the accelerated vesting on the Closing Date and payout of the Accelerated Portion (as defined below) of the account balances under the PC/CM Retention Plans of the PC/CM Continuing Business Employees, in accordance with the terms of such plans following the Closing Date. It is the intent of the Parties that, on and after the Closing Date, PC/CM Continuing Business Employees shall continue to vest in the portion of their account balances under each of the PC/CM Retention Plans that does not constitute the Accelerated Portion (the "") in accordance with the terms and provisions of each such plan and that the Retention Portion not be distributed to PC/CM Continuing Business Employees on the Closing Date. The Accelerated Portion shall mean the portion of the accounts for PC/CM Continuing Business Employees that are scheduled to vest or have previously vested under the current terms of the PC/CM Retention Plans on or prior to December 31, 2006. The aggregate value of the Retention Portion shall be based on the sum of (i) the number of shares of Legg Mason Common Stock or Legg Mason Common Stock-based awards comprising the unvested account balances of the PC/CM Continuing Business Employees multiplied by the average of the high and low trading prices of Legg Mason common stock on the Closing Date) and (ii) the forfeited account balances as of the Closing Date of the PC/CM Continuing Business Employees that are not denominated in shares of Legg Mason common stock (the ""). Effective as of the Closing Date, Citigroup shall, in a manner, to the extent practicable, that complies with Section 409A of the Code, take such actions as shall be reasonably necessary to establish, or cause to be established, one or more mirror plans to replace the PC/CM Retention Plans (the "") and shall take such actions as shall be reasonably necessary to cause each such Citigroup Replacement Retention Plan to assume on the Closing Date all of the obligations and liabilities for the Retention Portion with respect to PC/CM Continuing Business Employees under the PC/CM Retention Plans such that such Citigroup Replacement Retention Plans shall contain terms and conditions that are no less favorable to a PC/CM Continuing Business Employee than those that applied under the PC/CM Retention Plans,
PC/CM Retention Plans
Retention Portion
Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Account
Citigroup Replacement Retention Plans
 
except that (i) service with Citigroup and its Affiliates shall be substituted under the Citigroup Replacement Retention Plans for service with Legg Mason and its Affiliates for periods on and after the Closing Date and (ii) common stock of Citigroup or another notional investment alternative, as determined by Citigroup in its sole discretion, may be substituted on the Closing Date for common stock of Legg Mason under the Citigroup Replacement Retention Plans. Prior to the Closing Date, Legg Mason shall cause (i) each of the PC/CM Retention Plans to be amended, and shall take such other action as shall be reasonably necessary, to provide for the transfer on the Closing Date of the liabilities in respect of the Retention Portion for PC/CM Continuing Employees under the PC/CM Retention Plans to the Citigroup Replacement Retention Plans and, upon such transfer of liabilities, to cause the PC/CM Retention Plans to be transferred to, and assumed by (including all liabilities relating thereto), Legg Mason or a Subsidiary of Legg Mason (other than a PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary) effective as of the Closing Date, and (ii) the Legg Mason Wood Walker Incorporated Deferred Compensation Trust (the "") established in connection with certain of the PC/CM Retention Plans to be transferred to Legg Mason or a Subsidiary of Legg Mason (other than a PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary). No assets of the Legg Mason Wood Walker Trust shall be transferred to Citigroup or any Subsidiary of Citigroup in connection with the assumption by the Citigroup Replacement Retention Plans of the obligations and liabilities with respect to PC/CM Continuing Business Employees under the PC/CM Retention Plans. It is the intent of the parties that no assets of Legg Mason Wood Walker Trust be applied to pay benefits to PC/CM Continuing Business Employees under the Citigroup Replacement Retention Plans or the PC/CM Retention Plans on and after the Closing Date and, to the extent any such assets are transferred or applied to the payment of such benefit on or after the Closing Date, Citigroup shall promptly make a cash payment to Legg Mason equal to the value of the assets so applied. Subject to Section 1.2(c), on the Closing Date prior to the Closing, Legg Mason shall contribute to the capital of the PC/CM Transferred Subsidiary an amount equal to the Legg Mason Continuing Deferred Compensation Amount.
Legg Mason Wood Walker Trust
 
(m) No later than sixty days after the date hereof, to the extent permitted by Requirement of Law, Legg Mason shall deliver to Citigroup the name, social security (or similar foreign term), home address, home telephone number, current annual salary rates, bonuses, deferred or contingent compensation, accrued vacation, and other like benefits paid or payable (in cash or otherwise), date of employment and job title of each PC/CM Continuing Business Employee. Legg Mason shall use reasonable efforts to update the information provided pursuant the foregoing sentence as reasonably requested by Citigroup.
 
Section 1.26 . Section 6.20 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Restrictions on Legg Mason Purchase of its Stock
 
Section 6.20 .
Restrictions on Legg Mason Purchases of its Stock; Citigroup Ownership of Legg Mason Stock
 
(a) Legg Mason shall not purchase, or take any other corporate action with respect to, the Legg Mason Common Stock which would result in Citigroup owning in excess of 14.39% of the then-outstanding shares of Legg Mason capital stock.
 
(b) Citigroup shall notify Legg Mason as soon as practicable following such time as the sum of (i) the number of shares of Legg Mason Common Stock owned by Citigroup and its Affiliates and (ii) the number of shares of Legg Mason Common Stock into which the Legg Mason Preferred Stock owned by Citigroup and its Affiliate can be converted represents less than 10% of the issued and outstanding shares of Legg Mason Common Stock (based on the total amount of issued and outstanding shares of Legg Mason Common Stock reported in the most recently available Form 10-Q filed by Legg Mason with the SEC).
 
Section 1.27 . Section 6.21 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
CAM Financial Information
 
Section 6.21 . As promptly as practicable after the date hereof and, in any event, no later than November 15, 2005 ( that a draft of the financial statements referred to in clause (i) shall be delivered by October 31, 2005), Citigroup (i) shall deliver to Legg Mason (A) audited financial statements (including selected financial data) of the CAM Business for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004 and cooperate with Legg Mason in connection with the preparation of related pro forma financial statements, in each case that comply with either (1) the requirements of Regulation S-X under the rules and regulations of the SEC (as interpreted by the staff of the SEC) for financial statements that would be required to be included in a registration statement on Form S-1, S-3 or S-4 in connection with an offering of equity securities by Legg Mason after giving effect to the Transactions or (2) such requirements except as the staff of the SEC may permit Legg Mason by waiver of such requirements (in either case (1) or (2), together with customary reports and "comfort" letters of CAM's independent public accountants) (collectively, the "") and (B) an unaudited balance sheet of the CAM Business at September 30, 2005 and the related unaudited statement of income and cash flows of the CAM Business for the nine-month period then ended prepared in conformity with Section 4.12 (the "") and (ii) shall provide and make available, and shall cause the CAM Subsidiaries to provide and make available, upon reasonable notice, the senior management employees of the CAM Subsidiaries and, if appropriate, relevant employees of Citigroup for their participation in the reasonable preparation of any registration statement on Form S-1, S-3 or S-4 in connection with an offering of equity securities by Legg Mason.
CAM Financial Information
provided
CAM Financial Information
Interim Financial Statements
 
Section 1.28 . Section 6.22 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows.
Commitment Letter
 
Section 6.22 [Intentionally Omitted.]
 
Section 1.29 . Section 6.23 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Short-Term Financings
 
Section 6.23 .
Certain Financings
 
(a) At or prior to the Closing, a CAM Subsidiary shall memorialize existing intercompany payables to or borrowings from Citigroup (or an Affiliate of Citigroup designated by Citigroup) by executing and delivering the promissory note attached as Exhibit M hereto in an amount equal to $62,000,000 such principal amount being equal to the excess of (x) the CAM Tangible Book Value set forth in the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet over (y) the CAM Tangible Book Value Target and being reflected as a liability on the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet under "Intercompany Obligation."
 
(b) At or prior to the Closing, Citigroup (or an Affiliate of Citigroup designated by Citigroup) shall provide the credit facility attached as Exhibit N hereto to Legg Mason or one of its Affiliates (including a CAM Subsidiary designated by Legg Mason) for a total amount, determined in good faith by Citigroup and Legg Mason at least five Business Days prior to the Closing Date, to provide the CAM Transferred Subsidiaries with sufficient working capital following the Closing and sufficient capital to manage certain foreign capital requirements of the CAM Business, that such total amount shall not exceed $130,000,000.
provided
 
(c) Following the Closing Date, Legg Mason shall unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee the prompt payment and performance of all amounts due under the foregoing term promissory note and credit facility pursuant to the form of guarantee attached as Exhibit O hereto.
 
(d) At or prior to the Closing, a PC/CM Subsidiary shall memorialize existing intercompany payables to or borrowings from Legg Mason (or an Affiliate of Legg Mason designated by Legg Mason) by executing and delivering the promissory note attached as Exhibit P hereto in an amount equal to $16,063,926, such principal amount being equal to the excess of (x) the PC/CM Tangible Book Value set forth in the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet over (y) the PC/CM Tangible Book Value Target and being reflected on the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet as a break-out labeled "Intercompany payable generated by transaction" to the line item "Payable to LM Incorporated".
 
(e) Following the Closing Date, Citigroup shall unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee the prompt payment and performance of all amounts due under the foregoing term promissory note described in clause (d) pursuant to the form of guarantee attached as Exhibit Q hereto.
 
Section 1.30 . References to "Legg Mason Indemnities", "Citigroup Indemnities" and "Citigroup's Hypothetical Liability" in Section 8.13(a)(i), Section 8.13(b)(i) and Section 8.13(b)(iv) of the Original Agreement shall be deemed references to "Legg Mason Tax Indemnities", "Citigroup Tax Indemnities" and "Citigroup Hypothetical Tax Liability", respectively.
Certain Deductions
 
Section 1.31 . Section 10.2 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Indemnification of Legg Mason
 
Section 10.2 . Subject to the terms of this Article X, from and after the Closing, Citigroup shall indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless Legg Mason and its Affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, successors and assigns (collectively, the ""), from and against any and all:
Indemnification of Legg Mason
Legg Mason Indemnified Parties
 
(a) Losses resulting from or arising out of any breach by Citigroup of any representation or warranty in this Agreement (without regard to any CAM Material Adverse Effect or materiality qualifications, except for reference to the words "material" or "CAM Material Adverse Effect" in the Sections set forth in Annex E hereto) other than the representations and warranties in Section 4.20;
 
(b) Losses resulting from or arising out of the failure by Citigroup to perform any of its covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement;
 
(c) Losses resulting from or arising out of any investigation by a Governmental Authority of which Citigroup or any of its Affiliates or agents or representatives has notice, or any action, suit, proceeding, claim, demand or assessment made or brought by any Person, on or prior to the date of this Agreement, including any of the CAM Scheduled Matters;
 
(d) Losses resulting from or arising out of the failure of Citigroup or any of the CAM Subsidiaries to comply with AM Requirements of Law prior to the Closing in respect of the CAM Business;
 
(e) Losses resulting from or arising out of any of the Retained CAM Liabilities; and
 
(f) Losses resulting from or arising out of the breach or alleged breach of any CAM Advisory Contract with any True Up CAM Advisory Client (other than any Person listed on hereto), by reason of the fact that the express terms of such Contract require written consent to assignment for which no such consent has been received.
Annex H
 
Section 1.32 . Section 10.3 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Indemnification of Citigroup
 
Section 10.3 . Subject to the terms of this Article X, from and after the Closing, Legg Mason shall indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless Citigroup and its Affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, successors and assigns (collectively, the "" and together with the Legg Mason Indemnified Parties, the "", and each, an "") from and against any and all:
Indemnification of Citigroup
Citigroup Indemnified Parties
Indemnified Parties
Indemnified Party
 
(a) Losses resulting from or arising out of any breach by Legg Mason of any representation or warranty in this Agreement (without regard to any PC/CM Material Adverse Effect or materiality qualifications, except for reference to the word "material" or "PC/CM Material Adverse Effect" in the Sections set forth in Annex E hereto) other than the representations and warranties in Section 5.18;
 
(b) Losses resulting from or arising out of the failure by Legg Mason to perform any of its covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement;
 
(c) Losses resulting from or arising out of any investigation by a Governmental Authority of which Legg Mason or any of its Affiliates or agents or representatives has notice, or any action, suit, proceeding, claim, demand or assessment made or brought by any Person, on or prior to the date of this Agreement, including any of the PC/CM Scheduled Matters;
 
(d) Losses resulting from or arising out of any of the Retained PC/CM Liabilities;
 
(e) Losses resulting from or arising out of the failure of Legg Mason or any of the Subsidiaries of Legg Mason to comply with PC/CM Requirements of Law prior to the Closing in respect of the PC/CM Business; and
 
(f) Losses resulting from or arising out of any of the Web Site Matters.
 
Section 1.33 . Section 10.4 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Claims
 
Section 10.4 . Upon receipt by an Indemnified Party of notice of any action, suit, proceedings, claim, demand or assessment made or brought by an unaffiliated third party or Governmental Authority (a "") with respect to a matter for which such Indemnified Party is indemnified under this Article X which has or is reasonably expected to give rise to a claim for Losses, the Indemnified Party shall as soon as practicable, in the case of a Legg Mason Indemnified Party, notify Citigroup and in the case of a Citigroup Indemnified Party, notify Legg Mason (Citigroup or Legg Mason, as the case may be, the ""), in writing, indicating the nature of such Third Party Claim and the basis therefor; provided, however, that any delay or failure by the Indemnified Party to give notice to the Indemnifying Party shall relieve the Indemnifying Party of its obligations hereunder only to the extent, if at all, that it is prejudiced by reason of such delay or failure. Such written notice requirement shall be satisfied by promptly transmitting the statement of claim, complaint, regulatory correspondence or other document triggering the indemnification to the Indemnifying Party along with a cover letter stating briefly why the Indemnified Party believes the claim is subject to indemnification. Such notice shall be sent by facsimile or overnight delivery service in accordance with Section 11.3. The
Claims
Third Party Claim
Indemnifying Party
 
Indemnifying Party shall have 10 Business Days after receipt of notice to elect, at its option, to assume and control the defense of, at its own expense and by its own counsel, any such Third Party Claim and shall be entitled to assert any and all defenses available to the Indemnified Party to the fullest extent permitted under Requirements of Law; provided, however, that the right of the Indemnifying Party to assume and control the defense of any Third Party Claim shall not apply in the case of a Third Party Claim that seeks indemnification solely as a result of a breach of representations covered under Section 10.2(a) or 10.3(a), as applicable, if and only if the parties mutually agree that the Losses reasonably expected to be indemnifiable by the Indemnifying Party as a result of such Third Party Claim are not expected, when taken together with prior Losses and pending and reasonably foreseeable future Losses, to exceed, in the case of breaches of representations covered under Section 10.2(a), the Citigroup Threshold (or remaining Citigroup Threshold) and, in the case of breaches of representations covered under Section 10.3(a), the Legg Mason Threshold (or remaining Legg Mason Threshold); provided further that the Indemnifying Party shall have the right to assume and control the defense of any such Third Party Claim previously being controlled by the Indemnified Party pursuant to the immediately preceding proviso at such time as the Indemnifying Party determines that the applicable Third Party Claim, either alone or when taken together with prior Losses and pending and reasonably foreseeable future Losses, is expected to exceed, in the case of breaches of representations covered under Section 10.2(a), the Citigroup Threshold (or remaining Citigroup Threshold) and, in the case of breaches of representations covered under Section 10.3(a), the Legg Mason Threshold (or remaining Legg Mason Threshold). If the Indemnifying Party shall undertake to compromise or defend any such Third Party Claim, it shall promptly, but in any event within 10 Business Days of the receipt of notice from the Indemnified Party of such Third Party Claim, notify the Indemnified Party of its intention to do so, and the Indemnified Party agrees to cooperate fully with the Indemnifying Party and its counsel in the compromise of, or defense against, any such Third Party Claim; provided, however, that the Indemnifying Party shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect to, any such Third Party Claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), unless the relief consists solely of money Losses to be paid by the Indemnifying Party and includes a provision whereby the plaintiff or claimant in the matter releases the Legg Mason Indemnified Parties or the Citigroup Indemnified Parties, as applicable, from all liability with respect thereto. Notwithstanding an election to assume the defense of such action or proceeding, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in the defense of such action or proceeding, and the Indemnifying Party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if the (i) Indemnified Party shall have determined in good faith that an actual or potential conflict of interest makes representation by the same counsel or the counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party inappropriate or (ii) Indemnifying Party shall have authorized the Indemnified Party to employ separate counsel at the Indemnifying Party's expense. In any event, the
 
Indemnified Party and Indemnifying Party and their counsel shall cooperate in the defense of any Third Party Claim subject to this Article X, keep such Persons informed of all developments relating to any such Third Party Claims and provide copies of all relevant correspondence and documentation relating thereto. All costs and expenses incurred in connection with the Indemnified Party's cooperation shall be borne by the Indemnifying Party. In any event, the Indemnified Party shall have the right at its own expense to participate in the defense of such asserted liability. If the Indemnifying Party receiving such notice of a Third Party Claim does not elect to defend such Third Party Claim or does not defend such Third Party Claim in good faith, the Indemnified Party shall have the right, in addition to any other right or remedy it may have hereunder, at the Indemnifying Party's expense, to defend such Third Party Claim; provided, however, that the Indemnified Party shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect to, any such Third Party Claim without the written consent of the Indemnifying Party (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
 
Section 1.34 . Section 11.5(a) of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Jurisdiction; Venue; Consent to Service of Process
 
(a) Each of the Parties irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York or, if such court will not accept jurisdiction, the Supreme Court of the State of New York or any court of competent civil jurisdiction sitting in New York County, New York. In any action, suit or other proceeding relating to this Agreement, each of the Parties irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to assert by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise any claims that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of the above courts, that such action or suit is brought in an inconvenient forum or that the venue of such action, suit or other proceeding is improper. Each of the Parties also hereby agrees that any final and unappealable judgment against a Party in connection with any action, suit or other proceeding relating to this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on such Party and that such award or judgment may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction, either within or outside of the United States. A certified or exemplified copy of such award or judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the fact and amount of such award or judgment.
 
Section 1.35 . Section 11.12 of the Original Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Expenses
 
Section 11.12 . Except as provided in Sections 6.8(e) and 8.3, whether or not the Transactions are consummated, all expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the party incurring such expenses, except Citigroup and Legg Mason shall each bear and pay (a) one half of the expenses incurred by it or its Affiliates in connection with the filing, printing and mailing of the notices and proxy solicitation materials required by Section 6.6(b) and (b) one half of the fees and expenses of CAM's
Expenses
 
independent auditors incurred in connection with the preparation of the CAM Financial Information and the Interim Financial Statements in accordance with Section 6.21.
 
Section 1.36 . (a) The following definitions set forth in of the Original Agreement are amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
Annex A
Annex A
 
"" means the asset management business of Citigroup described under the caption "Asset Management" on page 4 of Citigroup's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 filed with the SEC, excluding (a) Citigroup's asset management business ("") and Citigroup's Banamex retirement services business in Mexico, (b) Citigroup's domestic asset management manufacturing businesses in Colombia, Argentina and Korea, (c) Citigroup's retirement services business in Latin America (""), (d) Citigroup's interest in Citistreet, (e) Citigroup's private bank "Tailored Portfolio Group," (f) Citigroup's transfer agency operation for the Smith Barney family of Registered Investment Companies, (g) seed capital and ownership interests in CAM investment products and entities whose sole function is to own, hold or provide seed capital or ownership interests in CAM investment products, (h) the fund administration business for the Luxembourg Non-Registered Funds, (i) the business conducted under the oversight agreement between LARS and BM, (j) the Travelers Series Trust fund administration business, (k) Citigroup's unit investment trust business, (l) the Citi Islamic Portfolios, (m) Citigroup's asset management business in Indonesia, (n) Citigroup's 529 Plan administrative services operations as described in the 529 Plan Services Agreement, (o) Citigroup's separately managed account services operations as described in the Services Agreement and (p) Citigroup's asset management business in Italy, with the results of operations of such asset management business (after giving effect to such exclusions) being reflected in the pro forma unaudited combined income statement for such business for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and the financial position of such asset management business (after giving effect to such exclusions) being reflected on the pro forma unaudited combined balance sheet for such business as of March 31, 2005 (in each case as provided to Legg Mason pursuant to Section 4.12(a)); that the parties acknowledge and agree that such income statement and balance sheet shall be deemed to exclude the results of operations and financial position attributable to the businesses and operations described in exclusions (k) through (p) to the extent necessary to give effect to such exclusions for all purposes under this Agreement, including the CAM Financial Information and for purposes of preparing the CAM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and the CAM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet pursuant to Sections 2.2(a) and 3.1(a), respectively. For the avoidance of doubt, the CAM Business shall include the business and operations of the CAM Subsidiaries (or any portion thereof) described in the immediately preceding sentence and shall exclude all other businesses and operations of Citigroup and its Affiliates.
CAM Business
BM
LARS
provided
 
"" means all persons employed by Citigroup or any Affiliate of Citigroup primarily engaged in or primarily in support of the CAM
CAM Business Employee
 
Business as of the Closing; that the term "CAM Business Employee" shall not include employees set forth in Section 6.14(a)(i) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter; and that for purposes of (a) the definition of CAM Benefit Plan, the term "CAM Business Employee" shall be deemed to refer to any person employed by Citigroup or any Affiliate of Citigroup primarily engaged in or primarily in support of the CAM Business as of the date hereof, and (b) Sections 6.1(b)(v), 6.1(b)(vii), 6.14(a), 6.14(m) and 6.14(n), the term "CAM Business Employee" shall be deemed to refer to any person employed by Citigroup or any Affiliate of Citigroup primarily engaged in or primarily in support of the CAM Business as of the date of the proposed action thereunder.
provided
provided
further
 
"" means Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
CGMI
 
"" and "" means the Amended and Restated Global Distribution Agreement dated as of October 3, 2005.
Distribution and Product Access Agreement
Distribution Agreement
 
"" means, with respect to a CAM Advisory Contract in effect as of May 31, 2005, (a) a contract set forth on Support Schedules G, H, I and J and of the Revenue Run-Rate Schedule and, with respect to a CAM Advisory Contract in effect after May 31, 2005, a contract of such type, (b) accounts managed by the Tailored Portfolio Group, (c) clients of Citigroup's asset management business in Indonesia, (d) Citi Islamic Portfolios and (e) accounts managed by Maurits Edershein or William Joseph (other than the Worldwide Special Value Fund, N.V.) that have been moved to Smith Barney.
Excluded Advisory Contract
 
"" means the senior term note that may be issued to Citigroup pursuant to this Agreement, in the form set forth in Exhibit R attached hereto.
Legg Mason Note
 
"" means (a) the private client business of Legg Mason described under the caption "Private Client Business Segment" starting on page 11 of Legg Mason's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 filed with the SEC (the "") and (b) the capital markets business of Legg Mason as described under the caption "Capital Markets Business Segment" starting on page 13 of such Form 10-K, including, by way of example and not limitation, the corporate investment banking, public finance investment banking, institutional equity sales and trading, institutional fixed income sales and trading, structured finance, syndication and equity research, but excluding (i) the business of Legg Mason Real Estate Services and Legg Mason Real Estate Investors and (ii) Legg Mason's investment in Capco Holdings, Inc. (the ""), with the results of operations of such businesses (after giving effect to such exclusion) being reflected in the PC/CM Income Statement and the financial position of such businesses (after giving effect to such exclusion) being reflected on the PC/CM Base Balance Sheet (in each case as provided to Legg Mason pursuant to Section 5.10(a)); that the parties acknowledge and agree that such income statement and balance sheet shall be deemed to exclude the results of operations and financial position attributable to the businesses and operations described in
PC/CM Business
PC Business
CM Business
provided
 
exclusions (i) and (ii) to the extent necessary to give effect to such exclusions for all purposes under this Agreement, including the PC/CM Financial Information and for purposes of preparing the PC/CM Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and the PC/CM Final Closing Date Balance Sheet pursuant to Sections 2.2(b) and 3.2(a), respectively.
 
"" means all persons employed by Legg Mason or any Affiliate of Legg Mason primarily engaged in or primarily in support of the PC/CM Business as of the Closing; that the term "PC/CM Business Employee" shall not include employees set forth in Section 6.15(a)(i) of the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter; and that for purposes of (a) the definition of PC/CM Benefit Plan, the term "PC/CM Business Employee" shall be deemed to refer to any person employed by Legg Mason or any Affiliate of Legg Mason primarily engaged in or primarily in support of the PC/CM Business as of the date hereof, and (b) Sections 6.2(b)(v), 6.2(b)(vii), 6.15(a) and 6.15(m), the term "PC/CM Business Employee" shall be deemed to refer to any person employed by Legg Mason or any Affiliate of Legg Mason primarily engaged in or primarily in support of the PC/CM Business as of the date of the proposed action thereunder.
PC/CM Business Employee
provided
provided further
 
"" means each of the Distribution and Product Access Agreement, the Transition Services Agreements, the Services Agreement, the License Agreements and the Investor Rights Agreement.
Related Agreements
 
"" has the meaning set forth in attached hereto.
Retained CAM Liabilities
Exhibit H
 
"" has the meaning set forth in attached hereto.
Retained PC/CM Liabilities
Exhibit I
 
"" means the Services Agreement to be entered into by and between Citigroup and Legg Mason at the Closing regarding services to be provided by Citigroup and its Affiliates to Legg Mason ands its Affiliates in respect of separately managed accounts.
Services Agreement
 
(b) The following definitions set forth in of the Original Agreement are deleted in their entirety:
Annex A
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.22.
Loan Documentation
 
"" means (a) the PC/CM Balance Sheet Adjustment, if any, less (b) the CAM Balance Sheet Adjustment, if any, which amount may be positive or negative.
Net Adjustment Amount
 
(c) The following definitions are added to of the Original Agreement and inserted in appropriate alphabetical order, as amended:
Annex A
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.14(e).
CAM Benefit Transfer Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.14(m).
CAM Deferred Transferred Employees
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.14(a)(iv).
CAM Leave Employee
 
"" means Towarzystwo Funduszy Inwestycyjnych BH S.A. and Handlowy Zarzadzanie Aktywami S.A., wholly-owned subsidiaries of Bank Handlowy w Warszawie S.A.
CAM Polish Transferred Subsidiaries
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Distribution and Product Access Agreement.
Citigroup Distributor
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.14(f).
Citigroup FSA
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.13(b)(ii).
Citigroup's Actual Tax Liability
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.13(b)(ii).
Citigroup's Hypothetical Tax Liability
 
"" means the $300 million 5-Year Term Loan Agreement, dated as of November 23, 2005 (as may be amended, restated or otherwise modified), among Legg Mason, as borrower, Citicorp North America, Inc., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto.
CNAI Term Loan Facility
 
"" means the Administrative Services Agreement to be entered into by and between CGMI and Legg Mason Investor Services, LLC at the Closing regarding services to be provided in respect of certain 529 plans.
529 Plan Services Agreement
 
"" means, in connection with any proposed payment by Legg Mason to Citigroup hereunder, that Legg Mason (i) is unable to fulfill the conditions precedent under Section 3.02 of the Term Loan Agreement (or, for purposes of Section 6.8(b) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter, Section 3.02 of the CNAI Term Loan Facility), has requested that the lenders waive such conditions precedent and the lenders thereunder are unwilling to waive such conditions precedent or (ii) has exercised its right to borrow under the Term Loan Facility (or, for purposes of Section 6.8(b) of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter, the CNAI Term Loan Facility) and the lenders thereunder have failed to lend, for whatever reason, in an amount equal to such requested borrowing.
Funding Inability
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.8(g)(i).
Indonesia Business
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.8(g)(i).
Indonesia Wind-Down
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.6(b)(i).
Interim Advisory Contract
 
"" has the meaning set forth in hereto.
Legg Mason AM Assets
Exhibit I
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.13(a)(ii).
Legg Mason Group
 
"" has the meaning set forth in hereto.
Legg Mason Mixed Use Assets
Exhibit I
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.13(a)(ii).
Legg Mason's Actual Tax Liability
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.13(a)(ii).
Legg Mason's Hypothetical Tax Liability
 
"" has the meaning set forth in hereto.
Liabilities
Exhibit I
 
"" means the (a) the service mark license agreements relating to the use of Citigroup marks by Legg Mason and certain CAM Registered Investment Companies for a period of three years following the Closing to be entered into by and between Citigroup or its Affiliates, on one hand, and Legg Mason or the CAM Registered Investment Companies, on the other hand, (b) the cross-license between Citigroup and Legg Mason of certain transitional rights to Trademarks and certain perpetual rights to other types of Intellectual Property, in each case at the Closing and (c) the license agreements relating to the use of Citigroup marks by Legg Mason and certain CAM Registered Investment Companies and CAM Non-Registered Funds for a period of one year following the Closing to be entered into by and between Citigroup or its Affiliates, on one hand, and Legg Mason, the CAM Registered Investment Companies or CAM Non-Registered Funds, on the other hand, in each case at the Closing.
License Agreements
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.15(a)(iv).
PC/CM Leave Employee
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.6(b)(i).
New Advisory Contract
 
"" has the meaning set forth in attached hereto.
Retained CAM Assets
Exhibit H
 
"" means any employee of Citigroup or its Affiliate providing services to Legg Mason and its Affiliates pursuant to the Services Agreement.
Services Agreement Employee
 
"" means the Order of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order against Smith Barney Fund Management LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., dated May 31, 2005.
TA Order
 
"" means the $700 million Term Loan, dated as of October 14, 2005 (as may be amended, restated or otherwise modified), among Legg Mason, as borrower, Citibank N.A., as administrative agent, certain other agents and arrangers, and the lenders party thereto.
Term Loan Facility
 
"" means any security or data privacy breaches (whether intentional or unintentional) of any web site included in the PC Business, where the breach (i) arose or occurred prior to Closing, and (ii) was of a nature specifically anticipated in items H1 and/or H4 of Ernst & Young's Vulnerability Assessment Report.
Web Site Matters
 
"" means the period from and after the Closing to and including the earlier of (a) the date of completion of the Indonesia Wind-Down as certified by Citigroup pursuant to Section 6.8(g)(ii) and (b) the nine-month anniversary of the Closing.
Wind-Down Period
 
"" means, with respect to the Indonesia Business, all reasonable out-of-pocket third party costs and expenses incurred by Citigroup and its Affiliates during the Wind-Down Period in connection with the Indonesia Wind-Down, including reasonable severance expenses and costs of counsel.
Wind-Down Expenses
 
Section 1.37 . (a) The following Exhibits to the Original Agreement are amended as follows:
Exhibits; Annexes
 
(i) Exhibit B is amended and restated in its entirety as attached hereto.
 
(ii) Exhibit E is deleted in its entirety.
 
(iii) Exhibit F-3 is deleted in its entirety.
 
(iv) Exhibit H is amended and restated in its entirety as attached hereto.
 
(v) Exhibit I is amended and restated in its entirety as attached hereto.
 
(c) The following Exhibits are added to the Agreement, each in the form attached hereto:
 
(i) Exhibit J.
 
(ii) Exhibit K (PC/CM Base Balance Sheet), which shall be the PC/CM Base Balance Sheet referred to in Section 3.2 of the Agreement.
 
(iii) Exhibit L (CAM Base Balance Sheet), which shall be the CAM Base Balance Sheet referred to in Section 3.1 of the Agreement.
 
(iv) Exhibit M.
 
(v) Exhibit N.
 
(vi) Exhibit O.
 
(vii) Exhibit P.
 
(viii) Exhibit Q.
 
(ix) Exhibit R.
 
(d) The following Annex to the Original Agreement is amended as follows:
 
(i) Annex E is amended and restated in its entirety as attached hereto.
 
(e) The following Annexes are added to the Agreement, each in the form attached hereto:
 
(i) Annex G.
 
(ii) Annex H.
 
(iii) Annex 2.2(a)(ii).
 
(iv) Annex 2.2(b)(ii).
 
Section 1.38 . The following Sections of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter shall be amended or amended and restated as follows:
Citigroup Disclosure Letter
 
(a) Section 6.8(b) is amended and restated in its entirety as attached hereto.
 
(b) Section 7 of Section 6.13(c) is amended and restated in its entirety as attached hereto.
 
(c) Section 6.14 is amended and restated as attached hereto.
 
(d) Any reference to "Parent" in Sections 4.14(a)(i), 4.14(h) and 6.14 shall be replaced with "Citigroup".
 
(e) Section 6.17(b)(i) is amended by deleting Indonesia from such Section.
 
(f) Sections 4.5, 4.17(a), 4.17(d) and 4.18(a) are each amended and restated in their entireties as attached hereto.
 
Section 1.39 . The following Sections of the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter shall be amended as follows:
Legg Mason Disclosure Letter
 
(a) Section 5.5 is amended and restated in its entirety as attached hereto.
 
(b) Section 5.15(a) is amended and restated in its entirety as attached hereto.
 
(c) Section 5.15(c) is amended and restated in its entirety as attached hereto.
 
(d) Section 6.10(b)(ii) is amended and restated in its entirety as attached hereto.
 
(e) Section 6.15(k) is amended and restated in its entirety as attached hereto.
 
(f) Section 8.4(a) is amended and restated in its entirety as attached hereto.
 
 
Section 2.1 . Citigroup hereby represents and warrants to Legg Mason as follows:
Citigroup Representations and Warranties
 
(a) . Citigroup is a legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Requirements of Law of its jurisdiction of organization and has all requisite power and authority to own, operate and lease its assets and to carry on its business as currently conducted.
Organizational and Good Standing of Citigroup
 
(b) . Citigroup has all necessary power and authority to make, execute and deliver this Amendment and to perform all of the obligations to be performed by it hereunder. The making execution, delivery and performance by Citigroup of this Amendment and the consummation by them of the transactions contemplated by this Amendment have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of Citigroup. This Amendment has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Citigroup and assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by Legg Mason, this Amendment constitutes the valid, legal and binding obligation of Citigroup, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability hereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium or other similar Requirements of Law, not or hereafter in effect, relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally and the availability of specific remedies may be limited by legal and equitable principles of general applicability.
Authorization; Binding Obligations of Citigroup
 
Section 2.2 . Legg Mason hereby represents and warrants to Citigroup as follows:
Legg Mason Representations and Warranties
 
(a) . Legg Mason is a legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Requirements of Law of its jurisdiction of organization and has all requisite power and authority to own, operate and lease its assets and to carry on its business as currently conducted.
Organizational and Good Standing of Legg Mason
 
(b) . Legg Mason has all necessary power and authority to make, execute and deliver this Amendment and to perform all of the obligations to be performed by it hereunder. The making execution, delivery and performance by Legg Mason of this Amendment and the consummation by them of the transactions contemplated by this Amendment have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of Legg Mason. This Amendment has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Legg Mason and assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by Citigroup, this Amendment constitutes the valid, legal and binding obligation of Legg Mason, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability hereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium or other similar Requirements of Law, not or hereafter in effect, relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally and the availability of specific remedies may be limited by legal and equitable principles of general applicability.
Authorization; Binding Obligations of Legg Mason
 
 
Section 3.1 . When a reference is made in the Agreement to a "Schedule" of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter or the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter, such reference is to the relevant "Section" of the Citigroup Disclosure Letter or the Legg Mason Disclosure Letter, as the case may be.
Rule of Construction
 
Section 3.2 . Except as expressly amended by this Amendment, the Original Agreement remains unchanged, and the Original Agreement, as amended hereby, is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed in all respects as the agreement between the Parties and shall remain in full force and effect.
Full Force and Effect
 
Section 3.3 . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Requirements of Law of the State of New York applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely within such State, without regard to the conflict of laws principles of such State.
Governing Law
 
Section 3.4 . This Amendment may be executed by the Parties in multiple counterparts which may be delivered by facsimile transmission. Each counterpart when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, and all such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Party has caused this Agreement to be duly executed on its behalf by an authorized officer as of the date first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REGISTRATION AND INVESTOR RIGHTS AGREEMENT dated as of December 1, 2005, by and between Legg Mason, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), and Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Stockholder").
 
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained and other good and valid consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties to this Agreement hereby agree as follows:
 
1. Certain Definitions.
 
In addition to the terms defined elsewhere in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
"" of any Person means any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person. The term "control" (including the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with") as used with respect to any Person means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
 
"" means this Registration and Investor Rights Agreement, including all amendments, modifications and supplements and any exhibits or schedules to any of the foregoing, and shall refer to this Registration and Investor Rights Agreement as the same may be in effect at the time such reference becomes operative.
Agreement
 
"," "," "" or "" has the meaning given such term in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act.
Beneficial Owner
Beneficial Ownership
Beneficially Own
Beneficially Owned
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8(e) hereof.
Blackout Period
 
"" means any day, except a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Transaction Agreement.
Closing Date
 
"" means common stock, par value $.10 per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
 
"" means the shares of Common Stock issued to the Stockholder pursuant to the Transaction Agreement.
Common Stock Consideration
 
"" means, to the knowledge of the Stockholder (based solely on information contained in filings with the SEC pursuant to Rule 13d-1 under the Exchange Act and, in determining the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock, the Company's SEC filings and determined via inquiry, where practicable,
Common Stock Permitted Transferee
in the case of private transactions) with respect to any transfer, any Person whose Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock, when combined with (i) the shares of Common Stock that would be obtained upon consummation of such transfer and (ii) any other shares of Common Stock Beneficially Owned by any of such Person's Affiliates, does not exceed 4.9% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph and includes any other person referred to in the second sentence of Section 17(c) hereof.
Company
 
"" means the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $10.00 per share, of the Company referred to in the Articles Supplementary of the Company filed with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland on November 29, 2005.
Convertible Preferred Stock
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(d) hereof.
Delay Period
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a) hereof.
Demand Registration
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a) hereof.
Demand Registration Statement
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means, in connection with any underwritten offering, where, in addition to the cooperation otherwise required by this Agreement, (a) members of senior management of the Company (including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer) cooperate with the underwriter(s) in connection therewith and make themselves available to participate in "road-show" and other customary marketing activities in such locations (domestic and foreign) as reasonably recommended by the underwriter(s) (including one-on-one meetings with prospective purchasers of the Registrable Common Stock) that do not unreasonably interfere with the executive officers' performance of their duties in a manner that is not customarily expected for similar transactions and (b) the Company prepares preliminary and final prospectuses (preliminary and final prospectus supplements in the case of an offering pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement) for use in connection therewith as reasonably requested by the underwriter(s) containing such additional information as reasonably requested by the underwriter(s) (in addition to the minimum amount of information required by law, rule or regulation).
Full Cooperation
 
"" means an underwritten offering in which there is Full Cooperation.
Fully Marketed Underwritten Offering
 
"" means any national, federal, state, municipal, local, territorial, foreign or other government or any department, commission, board, bureau, agency, regulatory authority or instrumentality thereof, or any court, judicial, administrative or arbitral body or public or private tribunal.
Governmental Entity
 
"" means the Nasdaq quotation system, or any successor reporting system.
Nasdaq
 
"" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
NYSE
 
"" means any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization, association, corporation, institution, public benefit corporation, Governmental Entity or any other entity.
Person
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Piggyback Registration
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Piggyback Registration Statement
 
"" means the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock issued to the Stockholder pursuant to the Transaction Agreement.
Preferred Stock Consideration
 
"" means the prospectus or prospectuses included in any Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Common Stock covered by such Registration Statement and by all other amendments and supplements to the prospectus, including post-effective amendments and all material incorporated by reference in such prospectus or prospectuses.
Prospectus
 
"" means (i) all shares of Common Stock issued as Common Stock Consideration, (ii) all shares of Common Stock issued or issuable upon conversion of the Preferred Stock Consideration and (iii) any other security into or for which the Common Stock referred to in clause (i) or (ii) has been or is to be converted, substituted or exchanged, and any security issued or issuable with respect to such Common Stock or preferred stock upon any stock dividend or stock split or in connection with a combination of shares, reclassification, recapitalization, merger, consolidation or other reorganization or otherwise, except "Registrable Common Stock" shall not include any Common Stock from and after the time that (x) the Stockholder owns less than one-third of the Stock Consideration and (y) such Common Stock may be freely sold pursuant to Rule 144(k) in the reasonable determination of the Stockholder in consultation with counsel or in the reasonable determination of the Company in consultation with counsel, subject, in the case of determination by the Company, to the prior removal of all restrictive legends from, and any stop transfer instruction with respect to, such Common Stock so as to permit such sale pursuant to Rule 144(k). For purposes of determining the number of shares of Registrable Common Stock held by any Person and the number of shares of Registrable Common Stock outstanding, for purposes of this Agreement but not for any other purpose, a holder of record of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be deemed to be a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such Convertible Preferred Stock and all of such shares of Common Stock shall be deemed to be outstanding shares of Registrable Common Stock.
Registrable Common Stock
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9(a) hereof.
Registration Expenses
 
"" means any registration statement of the Company that covers the offer and sale of any of the Registrable Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, including the Prospectus, amendments and supplements to such Registration Statement, including post-effective amendments, all exhibits and all materials incorporated by reference in such Registration Statement.
Registration Statement
 
"" means Rule 144 promulgated by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC as a replacement thereto having substantially the same effect as such rule.
Rule 144
 
"" means Rule 415 promulgated by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC as a replacement thereto having substantially the same effect as such rule.
Rule 415
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" means the Common Stock Consideration and the Preferred Stock Consideration, collectively.
Stock Consideration
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph.
Stockholder
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8(e) hereof.
Suspension Notice
 
"" means the Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 23, 2005, between the Company and the Stockholder.
Transaction Agreement
 
"" means an offering in which securities of the Company are sold to one or more underwriters (as defined in Section 2(a)(ii) of the Securities Act) for resale to the public.
underwritten registration or underwritten offering
 
2. Shelf Registration Statement.
 
(a) . The Company shall promptly file, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be declared effective by the SEC not later than the expiration of the "lock-up period" specified in Section 14, a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 providing for the resale pursuant to Rule 415 from time to time by the Stockholder of such number of shares of Registrable Common Stock to be specified by
Right to Effective Registration
 
the Stockholder not to exceed such number of shares of Registrable Common Stock represented by two-thirds of the Stock Consideration (including the Prospectus, amendments and supplements to the shelf registration statement or Prospectus, including pre- and post-effective amendments, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference, if any, in such shelf registration statement, the "Shelf Registration Statement"). The Company shall maintain the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement until the earliest of (i) such time as the Common Stock covered by the Shelf Registration Statement can be sold without any limitations under clauses (c), (e), (f) and (h) of Rule 144 or similar rule adopted by the SEC, this clause (i) shall have no effect until after such time that the Stockholder ceases to own two-thirds of the Stock Consideration, (ii) 24 months in the aggregate plus the duration of any Blackout Period and (iii) such date as of which all of the Registrable Common Stock have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. The plan of distribution contained in the Shelf Registration Statement shall be as set forth in attached hereto, unless otherwise determined by the Stockholder.
provided
that
Exhibit A
 
(b) . The Stockholder shall be entitled to request an aggregate of four (4) Fully Marketed Underwritten Offerings pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement; Stockholder shall be entitled to request no more than two (2) underwritten offerings pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in any 12 month period. If the Stockholder requests a Fully Marketed Underwritten Offering, the Company shall cause there to occur Full Cooperation in connection therewith. An underwritten offering shall not count as one of the permitted Fully Marketed Underwritten Offerings if there is not Full Cooperation in connection therewith. Except as provided in this Section 2(b), there shall be no limitation on the number of takedowns off the Shelf Registration Statement.
Number of Fully Marketed Underwritten Offerings
provided
that
 
3. Additional Demand Registrations.
 
(a) . Any time after the time period for which the Company shall maintain the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Stockholder may request registration for resale under the Securities Act of all or part of the Registrable Common Stock pursuant to a Registration Statement separate from the Shelf Registration Statement (a "Demand Registration"). As promptly as practicable after such request, but in any event within 30 days of such request by the Stockholder, the Company shall file a registration statement registering for resale such number of shares of Registrable Common Stock held by the Stockholder as requested to be so registered (including the Prospectus, amendments and supplements to such registration statement or Prospectus, including pre- and post-effective amendments, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference, if any, in such registration statement, a "Demand Registration Statement"). In connection with each such Demand Registration, the Company shall cause there to occur Full Cooperation.
Right to Request Registration
 
(b) . The Stockholder will be entitled to request two (2) Demand Registrations pursuant to Section 3(a). A registration shall not count as one of the permitted Demand Registrations pursuant to Section 3(a) (i) until the related Demand Registration Statement has become effective or (ii) if there was not Full Cooperation in connection therewith.
Number of Demand Registrations
 
(c) . If a Demand Registration pursuant to this Section 3 involves an underwritten offering and the managing underwriter shall advise the Company that in its opinion the number of securities requested to be included in such registration exceeds the number that can be sold in such offering without having an adverse effect on such offering, including the price at which such securities can be sold, then the Company shall include in such registration the maximum number of shares that such underwriter advises can be so sold without having such effect, allocated (i) first, to Registrable Common Stock requested by the Stockholder to be included in such registration and (ii) second, among all shares of Common Stock requested to be included in such registration by any other Persons (including securities to be sold for the account of the Company) allocated among such Persons in such manner as they may agree.
Priority on Demand Registrations
 
(d) . The Company may postpone the filing or the effectiveness of a Demand Registration Statement if, based on the good faith judgment of the Company, such postponement is necessary in order to avoid premature disclosure of a matter the Company has determined would not be in the best interest of the Company to be disclosed at such time; , , that the Stockholder requesting such Demand Registration Statement shall be entitled, at any time after receiving notice of such postponement and before such Demand Registration Statement becomes effective, to withdraw such request and, if such request is withdrawn, such Demand Registration shall not count as one of the permitted Demand Registrations. The Company shall provide written notice to the Stockholder of (x) any postponement of the filing or effectiveness of a Demand Registration Statement pursuant to this Section 3(d), (y) the Company's decision to file or seek effectiveness of such Demand Registration Statement following such postponement and (z) the effectiveness of such Demand Registration Statement. The Company may defer the filing or effectiveness of a particular Demand Registration Statement pursuant to this Section 3(d) only once during any 12-month period. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 3(d), the Company may not postpone the filing or effectiveness of a Demand Registration Statement past the date that is the earliest of (a) the date upon which any disclosure of a matter the Company has determined would not be in the best interest of the Company to be disclosed is disclosed to the public or ceases to be material, (b) forty-five (45) days after the date upon which the Company has determined such matter should not be disclosed and (c) such date that, (x) prior to the date that is one year after the Closing Date, if such postponement continued, would result in there being more than ninety (90) days in the aggregate during which the filing or effectiveness of one or more Registration Statements has been so postponed, and (y) from and after the date that is one year after the Closing Date, if such postponement continued, would result in there being more than one hundred eighty (180) days in
Restrictions on Demand Registrations
provided
however
 
the aggregate in any 12 month period during which the filing or effectiveness of one or more Registration Statements has been so postponed. The period during which filing or effectiveness is so postponed hereunder is referred to as a "Delay Period."
 
(e) . After any Demand Registration filed pursuant to this Agreement has become effective, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep such Demand Registration Statement effective for a period of at least 45 days from the date on which the SEC declares such Demand Registration Statement effective plus the duration of any Delay Period and any Blackout Period, or such shorter period that shall terminate when all of the Registrable Common Stock covered by such Demand Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to such Demand Registration Statement in accordance with the plan of distribution set forth therein.
Effective Period of Demand Registrations
 
4. Piggyback Registrations.
 
(a) . Whenever the Company proposes to publicly sell or register for sale any of its common equity securities pursuant to a registration statement (a "Piggyback Registration Statement") under the Securities Act (other than a registration statement on Form S-8 or on Form S-4 or any similar successor forms thereto), whether for its own account or for the account of one or more securityholders of the Company (a "Piggyback Registration"), the Company shall give prompt written notice to the Stockholder of its intention to effect such sale or registration and, subject to Sections 4(b) and 4(c), shall include in such transaction all Registrable Common Stock with respect to which the Company has received a written request from the Stockholder for inclusion therein within 15 days after the receipt of the Company's notice; , , that the Stockholder shall not be entitled to a right to piggyback on any registration by the Company on behalf of certain sellers of capital stock issued in connection with a European acquisition transaction under that certain Registration Rights Agreement between the Company and such sellers, so long as there is no right to piggyback on a registration of Common Stock by the Company on behalf of the Stockholder granted under that certain Registration Rights Agreement. The Company may postpone or withdraw the filing or the effectiveness of a Piggyback Registration at any time in its sole discretion, without prejudice to the Stockholder's right to immediately request a Demand Registration hereunder. A Piggyback Registration shall not be considered a Demand Registration for purposes of Section 3 of this Agreement.
Right to Piggyback
provided
however
 
(b) . If a Piggyback Registration is initiated as an underwritten primary registration on behalf of the Company where the primary use of proceeds does not include the repurchase, redemption, acquisition or retirement of capital stock of the Company (a "Stock Repurchase"), and the managing underwriter advises the Company in writing that in its opinion the number of securities requested to be included in such registration exceeds the number that can be sold in such offering without having an adverse effect on such offering, including the price at which such securities can be sold, then the Company shall include in such registration the maximum number of
Priority on Primary Registrations
 
shares that such underwriter advises can be so sold without having such effect, allocated (i) first, to the securities the Company proposes to sell, (ii) second, to the extent not prohibited under agreements in effect or to which the Company is committed as of the date of the Transaction Agreement, in the case of an offering that is priced prior to the date that is one year after the Closing Date, to the Registrable Common Stock requested to be included in such Registration by the Stockholder, and, in the case of an offering that is priced thereafter, to (x) the securities requested to be included therein by the holder(s) requesting such registration if and to the extent that such holder(s) were granted registration rights by the Company prior to the date of the Transaction Agreement and (y) the Registrable Common Stock requested to be included in such registration by the Stockholder, pro rata among the holders of such securities on the basis of the number of shares requested to be registered by such holders, and (iii) third, among other securities requested to be included in such registration by other security holders of the Company on such basis as such holders may agree among themselves and the Company.
 
(c) . If a Piggyback Registration is initiated as an underwritten registration on behalf of a holder of the Company's securities other than Registrable Common Stock or on behalf of the Company where the use of proceeds includes a Stock Repurchase and the managing underwriter advises the Company in writing that in its opinion the number of securities requested to be included in such registration exceeds the number that can be sold in such offering without having an adverse effect on such offering, including the price at which such securities can be sold, then the Company shall include in such registration the maximum number of shares that such underwriter advises can be so sold without having such effect, allocated (i) first, to the extent not prohibited under agreements in effect or to which the Company is committed as of the date of the Transaction Agreement, in the case of an offering that is priced prior to the date that is one year after the Closing Date, to the Registrable Common Stock requested to be included in such Registration by the Stockholder, and, in the case of an offering that is priced thereafter, to (x) the securities requested to be included therein by the holder(s) requesting such registration if and to the extent that such holder(s) were granted registration rights by the Company prior to the date of the Transaction Agreement, (y) the Registrable Common Stock requested to be included in such registration and (z) securities requested to be included therein by the Company for its own account to the extent that the use of proceeds includes a Stock Repurchase, pro rata among the holders of such securities on the basis of the number of shares requested to be registered by such holders and the Company and (ii) second, to other securities (including Registrable Common Stock) requested to be included in such registration by other security holders, the Company and the Stockholder, pro rata among such holder(s), the Company and the Stockholder on the basis of the number of shares requested to be registered by them.
Priority on Secondary Registrations
 
5. Other Registrations
 
The Company shall not grant to any Person the right, other than as set forth herein and except to employees of the Company with respect to registrations on Form S-8 (or
 
any successor forms thereto), to request the Company to register any securities of the Company except such rights as are not more favorable than or not inconsistent with the rights granted to the Stockholder and that do not adversely affect the priorities set forth herein of the Stockholder.
 
6. Selection of Underwriters.
 
If any of the Registrable Common Stock covered by a Demand Registration Statement or a Shelf Registration Statement is to be sold in an underwritten offering, the Stockholder shall have the right to select the underwriters to administer the offering, each such underwriter subject, in all cases other than the selection of an Affiliate of the Stockholder, to the prior approval of the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
 
7. Holdback Agreements.
 
The Company agrees not to, and shall exercise its reasonable best efforts to obtain agreements (in the underwriters' customary form) from its directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of the Company's outstanding voting stock not to, directly or indirectly offer, sell, pledge, contract to sell, (including any short sale), grant any option to purchase or otherwise dispose of any equity securities of the Company or enter into any hedging transaction relating to any equity securities of the Company during the 120 days beginning on the effective date of any underwritten Demand Registration Statement or any underwritten Piggyback Registration Statement or the pricing date of any underwritten offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement (except as part of such underwritten registration or pursuant to registrations on Form S-8 or S-4 or any successor forms thereto) unless the underwriter managing the offering otherwise agrees to a shorter period, in the case of all offerings subsequent to the earlier of the effective date of the first Demand Registration involving a consummated underwritten offering or the pricing date of the first consummated underwritten offering pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, such 120 day period shall be reduced to 30 days in the case of directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of the Company's outstanding voting stock.
provided
that
 
8. Procedures.
 
(a) In connection with the Shelf Registration Statement and any Demand Registration Statement or Piggyback Registration Statement, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to effect the registration and the sale of the Registrable Common Stock in accordance with the intended methods of disposition thereof, and the Company shall as expeditiously as possible:
 
(i) prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement with respect to such Registrable Common Stock and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective as
 
soon as practicable thereafter; and before filing a Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto (including any prospectus supplement for a shelf takedown), furnish to the Stockholder and the underwriter or underwriters, if any, copies of all such documents proposed to be filed, including documents incorporated by reference in the Prospectus and, if requested by the Stockholder, the exhibits incorporated by reference, and the Stockholder (and the underwriter(s), if any) shall have the opportunity to review and comment thereon, and the Company will make such changes and additions thereto as reasonably requested by the Stockholder (and the underwriter(s), if any) prior to filing any Registration Statement or amendment thereto or any Prospectus or any supplement thereto;
 
(ii) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and supplements to such Registration Statement and the Prospectus used in connection therewith as may be required to keep such Registration Statement effective for a period of not less than 180 days, in the case of a Demand Registration Statement or an aggregate of 24 months, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement (plus, in each case, the duration of any Delay Period and any Blackout Period), or such shorter period as is necessary to complete the distribution of the securities covered by such Registration Statement and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement during such period in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the Stockholder set forth in such Registration Statement and, in the case of the Shelf Registration Statement, prepare such prospectus supplements containing such disclosures as may be reasonably requested by the Stockholder or any underwriter(s) in connection with each shelf takedown;
 
(iii) furnish to the Stockholder such number of copies of such Registration Statement, each amendment and supplement thereto, the Prospectus included in such Registration Statement (including each preliminary Prospectus) and such other documents as the Stockholder and any underwriter(s) may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition of the Registrable Common Stock;
 
(iv) use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify such Registrable Common Stock under such other securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Stockholder and any underwriter(s) reasonably requests and do any and all other acts and things that may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the Stockholder and any underwriter(s) to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Registrable Common Stock (provided, that the Company will not be required to (1) qualify
 
generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this subparagraph (iv), (2) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or (3) consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction);
 
(v) notify the Stockholder and any underwriter(s), at any time when a Prospectus relating thereto is required to be delivered under the Securities Act, of the occurrence of any event as a result of which the Prospectus included in such Registration Statement contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and, at the request of the Stockholder or any underwriter(s), the Company shall prepare a supplement or amendment to such Prospectus so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of such Registrable Common Stock, such Prospectus shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading;
 
(vi) in the case of an underwritten offering, (i) enter into such agreements (including underwriting agreements in customary form), (ii) take all such other actions as the Stockholder or the underwriter(s) reasonably request in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Common Stock (including, without limitation, causing senior management and other Company personnel to cooperate with the Stockholder and the underwriter(s) in connection with performing due diligence) and (iii) use its reasonable best efforts to cause its counsel to issue opinions of counsel in form, substance and scope as are customary in primary underwritten offerings, addressed and delivered to the underwriter(s) and the Stockholder, if the Company shall fail to cause to be delivered such opinions of counsel in the context of a Fully Marketed Underwritten Offering, such offering shall not count as one of the Fully Marketed Underwritten Offerings pursuant to Section 2(b) or Section 3(b);
provided
that
 
(vii) in connection with each Demand Registration pursuant to Section 3 and each Fully Marketed Underwritten Offering requested by the Stockholder under Section 2, cause there to occur Full Cooperation and, in all cases other than in connection with a Fully Marketed Underwritten Offering, cause members of senior management of the Company to be available to participate in, and to cooperate with the underwriter(s) in connection with customary marketing activities (including select conference calls and one-on-one meetings with prospective purchasers) that do not unreasonably interfere with the conduct of the Company's business or involve travel for such members of senior management;
 
(viii) make available for inspection by the Stockholder, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Registration Statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by the Stockholder or underwriter, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company, and use its reasonable efforts to cause the Company's officers, directors, employees and independent accountants to supply all information reasonably requested by the Stockholder, underwriter, attorney, accountant or agent in connection with such Registration Statement;
 
(ix) use its reasonable best efforts to cause all such Registrable Common Stock to be listed on each securities exchange on which the Common Stock of the Company is then listed or, if no such similar securities are then listed, on Nasdaq or a national securities exchange selected by the Company;
 
(x) provide a transfer agent and registrar for all such Registrable Common Stock not later than the effective date of such Registration Statement;
 
(xi) if requested, use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be delivered, immediately prior to the pricing of any underwritten offering, immediately prior to effectiveness of each Registration Statement (and, in the case of an underwritten offering, at the time of closing of the sale of Registrable Common Stock pursuant thereto), letters from the Company's independent registered public accountants addressed to the Stockholder and each underwriter, if any, stating that such accountants are independent public accountants within the meaning of the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder, and otherwise in customary form and covering such financial and accounting matters as are customarily covered by letters of the independent registered public accountants delivered in connection with primary underwritten public offerings, if the Company shall fail to cause to be delivered such letters in the context of a Fully Marketed Underwritten Offering, such offering shall not count as one of the Fully Marketed Underwritten Offerings pursuant to Section 2(b) or Section 3(b); and
provided
that
 
(xii) promptly notify the Stockholder and the underwriter or underwriters, if any:
 
(1) when the Registration Statement, any pre-effective amendment, the Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement has been filed and, with respect to the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has become effective;
 
(2) of any written request by the SEC for amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement or Prospectus;
 
(3) of the notification to the Company by the SEC of its initiation of any proceeding with respect to the issuance by the SEC of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement; and
 
(4) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of any Registrable Common Stock for sale under the applicable securities or blue sky laws of any jurisdiction.
 
(b) The Company represents and warrants that no Registration Statement (including any amendments or supplements thereto and Prospectuses contained therein) shall contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein, or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (except that the Company makes no representation or warranty with respect to information relating to the Stockholder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of the Stockholder specifically for use therein or relating to any underwriter of the transaction furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any underwriter specifically for use therein).
 
(c) The Company shall make available to the Stockholder (i) promptly after the same is prepared and publicly distributed, filed with the SEC, or received by the Company, copies of each Registration Statement and any amendment thereto, each preliminary Prospectus and Prospectus and each amendment or supplement thereto, each letter written by or on behalf of the Company to the SEC or the staff of the SEC (or other governmental agency or self-regulatory body or other body having jurisdiction, including any domestic or foreign securities exchange), and each item of correspondence from the SEC or the staff of the SEC (or other governmental agency or self-regulatory body or other body having jurisdiction, including any domestic or foreign securities exchange), in each case relating to such Registration Statement, and (ii) such number of copies of a Prospectus, including a preliminary Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto and such other documents as the Stockholder or any underwriter may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition of the Registrable Common Stock. The Company will promptly notify the Stockholder of the effectiveness of each Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment. The Company will respond reasonably promptly to any and all comments received from the SEC, with a view towards causing each Registration Statement or any amendment thereto to be declared effective by the SEC as soon as practicable and shall file an acceleration request as soon as practicable following the resolution or clearance of all SEC comments or, if applicable, following notification by the SEC that any such Registration Statement or any amendment thereto will not be subject to review.
 
(d) The Company may require the Stockholder to furnish to the Company any other information regarding the Stockholder and the distribution of such securities as the Company reasonably determines, based on the advice of counsel, is required to be included in any Registration Statement.
 
(e) The Stockholder agrees that, upon notice from the Company of the happening of any event as a result of which the Prospectus included in such Registration Statement contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (a "Suspension Notice"), the Stockholder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Common Stock pursuant to such Registration Statement for a reasonable length of time not to exceed twenty (20) days (sixty (60) days in the case of an event described in Section 3(d)) until the Stockholder is advised in writing by the Company that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed and is furnished with a supplemented or amended Prospectus (if required in order to eliminate such untrue statement or omission) as contemplated by Section 8(a) hereof; , , that prior to the date that is one year after the Closing Date, such postponement of sales of Registrable Common Stock shall not exceed ninety (90) days in the aggregate and from and after the date that is one year after the Closing Date, such postponement of sales of Registrable Common Stock by the Stockholder shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days in the aggregate in any 12-month period. If the Company shall give the Stockholder any Suspension Notice, the Company shall extend the period of time during which the Company is required to maintain the applicable Registration Statements effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such Suspension Notice to and including the date the Stockholder either is advised by the Company that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed or receives the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 8(a) (a "Blackout Period"). In any event, the Company shall not be entitled to deliver more than a total of three (3) Suspension Notices or notices of any Delay Period in any 12-month period.
provided
however
 
9. Registration Expenses.
 
(a) All expenses incident to the Company's performance of or compliance with this Agreement, including, without limitation, all registration and filing fees (including SEC registration fees and NASD filing fees), fees and expenses of compliance with securities or blue sky laws, listing application fees, printing expenses, transfer agent's and registrar's fees, cost of distributing Prospectuses in preliminary and final form as well as any supplements thereto, and fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and all accountants and other Persons retained by the Company (all such expenses being herein called "Registration Expenses") (but not including any underwriting discounts or commissions or transfer taxes, if any, attributable to the sale of Registrable Common Stock or
 
any fees or disbursements of counsel for the Stockholder), shall be borne by the Company. In addition, the Company shall pay its internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expense of any annual audit or quarterly review, the expense of any liability insurance and the expenses and fees for listing the securities to be registered on each securities exchange on which they are to be listed.
 
(b) The obligation of the Company to bear the expenses described in Section 9(a) shall apply irrespective of whether a registration, once properly demanded, if applicable, becomes effective, is withdrawn or suspended, is converted to another form of registration and irrespective of when any of the foregoing shall occur.
 
10. Indemnification.
 
(a) The Company shall indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Stockholder and its officers, directors, employees and Affiliates and each Person who controls the Stockholder (within the meaning of the Securities Act) against all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses arising out of or based upon any untrue or alleged untrue statement of material fact contained in any Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus or any amendment thereof or supplement thereto or any omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or any violation or alleged violation by the Company of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or applicable "blue sky" laws, except insofar as the same are made in reliance and in conformity with information relating to the Stockholder furnished in writing to the Company by the Stockholder expressly for use therein or information relating to any underwriter of the transaction furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of any underwriter specifically for use therein. In connection with an underwritten offering, the Company shall indemnify such underwriter(s), their officers, employees and directors and each Person who controls such underwriter(s) (within the meaning of the Securities Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the Stockholder.
 
(b) In connection with any Registration Statement in which the Stockholder is participating, the Stockholder shall furnish to the Company in writing such information as the Company reasonably determines, based on the advice of counsel, is required to be included in, any such Registration Statement or Prospectus and, shall indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Company, its officers, employees, directors, Affiliates, and each Person who controls the Company (within the meaning of the Securities Act) against all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses arising out of or based upon any untrue or alleged untrue statement of material fact contained in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus or any amendment thereof or supplement thereto or any omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, but only to the extent that the same are made in reliance and in conformity with information relating to the Stockholder furnished in writing to the Company by the Stockholder expressly for use therein.
 
(c) Any Person entitled to indemnification hereunder shall (i) give prompt written notice to the indemnifying party of any claim with respect to which it seeks indemnification and (ii) unless in such indemnified party's reasonable judgment a conflict of interest between such indemnified and indemnifying parties may exist with respect to such claim, permit such indemnifying party to assume the defense of such claim with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party. If such defense is assumed, the indemnifying party shall not be subject to any liability for any settlement made by the indemnified party without its consent (but such consent will not be unreasonably withheld). An indemnifying party who is not entitled to, or elects not to, assume the defense of a claim shall not be obligated to pay the fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) for all parties indemnified by such indemnifying party with respect to such claim, unless in the reasonable judgment of any indemnified party there may be one or more legal or equitable defenses available to such indemnified party that are in addition to or may conflict with those available to another indemnified party with respect to such claim. Failure to give prompt written notice shall not release the indemnifying party from its obligations hereunder unless and only to the extent that the Company is materially prejudiced by such failure.
 
(d) The indemnification provided for under this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the indemnified party or any officer, director or controlling Person of such indemnified party and shall survive the transfer of securities.
 
(e) If the indemnification provided for in or pursuant to this Section 10 is due in accordance with the terms hereof, but is held by a court to be unavailable or unenforceable in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to herein, then each applicable indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party on the one hand and of the indemnified party on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that result in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the indemnifying party on the one hand and of the indemnified Person on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the indemnifying party or by the indemnified party, and by such party's relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. In no event shall the liability of the Stockholder be greater in amount than the amount of net proceeds received by the Stockholder upon such sale.
 
11. Rule 144.
 
The Company covenants that it will file the reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder, and it will take such further action as the Stockholder may reasonably request to make available adequate current public information with respect to the Company meeting the current public information requirements of Rule 144(c) under the Securities Act, to the extent required to enable the Stockholder to sell Registrable Common Stock without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (i) Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or (ii) any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC. Upon the request of the Stockholder, the Company will deliver to the Stockholder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such information and requirements.
 
12. Transfer of Registration Rights.
 
(a) The Stockholder may transfer all or any portion of its then-remaining rights under this Agreement to any transferee who is an Affiliate of the Stockholder (each, a "transferee"). Any transfer of registration rights pursuant to this Section 12 shall be effective upon receipt by the Company of (x) written notice from the Stockholder stating the name and address of any transferee and identifying the amount of Registrable Common Stock with respect to which the rights under this Agreement are being transferred and the nature of the rights so transferred and (y) a written agreement from the transferee to be bound by all of the covenants contained in Agreement that are binding on the Stockholder. In connection with any such transfer, the term "Stockholder" as used in this Agreement shall, where appropriate to assign such rights to such transferee, be deemed to refer to the transferee holder of such Registrable Common Stock. The Stockholder and such transferees may exercise the registration rights hereunder in such proportion (not to exceed the then-remaining rights hereunder) as they shall agree among themselves.
 
(b) After such transfer, the Stockholder shall retain its rights under this Agreement with respect to all other Registrable Common Stock owned by the Stockholder. Upon the request of the Stockholder, the Company shall execute a Registration Rights Agreement with such transferee or a proposed transferee substantially similar to the applicable sections of this Agreement.
 
13. Conversion of Other Securities.
 
If the Stockholder offers Registrable Common Stock by forward sale, or any options, rights, warrants or other securities issued by it or any other person that are offered with, convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for any Registrable Common Stock, the Registrable Common Stock subject to such forward sale or underlying such options, rights, warrants or other securities shall be eligible for registration pursuant to this Agreement, it being understood that the Company shall not be required pursuant to this Section 13 to maintain the effectiveness of any Registration Statement beyond the time periods otherwise required by this Agreement.
 
14. Lock-Up of Stockholder.
 
The Stockholder agrees that it will not publicly sell any shares of Registrable Common Stock prior to the date that is the earlier of (a) the filing deadline for the 2006 annual report of the Company filed on Form 10-K and (b) the later of (i) the 90
th
day after the Closing Date or (ii) the date upon which the Stockholder delivers any and all audited financial statements of the CAM Business (as defined in the Transaction Agreement) that are required pursuant to Regulation S-X under the Securities Act to be included or incorporated by reference in the Shelf Registration Statement, , , that nothing in this Section 14 will restrict sales of Registrable Common Stock to the Company or to an Affiliate of the Stockholder or in any other transaction not requiring registration under the Securities Act if the transferee agrees to the transfer and other restrictions set forth in this Agreement to which the Stockholder was subject with respect to the transferred shares of Registrable Common Stock.
provided
however
 
15. Transfer Restrictions.
 
(a) In any offer or sale of Common Stock Consideration or Common Stock underlying the Preferred Stock Consideration, the Stockholder may sell Common Stock only to a Common Stock Permitted Transferee in a transaction that involves the transfer of one percent (1%) or less of the Common Stock then outstanding to any Person or group of Persons under common control or acting in concert, , , that this Section 15 will not apply to any transfer (i) to an Affiliate of the Stockholder or to the Company, (ii) pursuant to Rule 144, (iii) pursuant to a Demand Registration Statement, a Piggyback Registration Statement or a broadly distributed underwritten offering under the Shelf Registration Statement or (iv) any public sale pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement where it would be impracticable for the Stockholder to determine the identity of the ultimate transferee or where such identity is not customarily made known to the transferor for similar transactions.
provided
however
 
(b) The Stockholder agrees that it will not sell more than two-thirds of the Stock Consideration within the first 12 months after the Closing Date.
 
(c) Common Stock issued upon conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall bear a legend that is appropriate to reflect the restrictions contemplated by this Agreement and the Transaction Agreement.
 
16. Standstill.
 
The Stockholder agrees that from and after the date of this Agreement, until the later to occur of (1) the date on which the Registrable Common Stock Beneficially Owned by the Stockholder and its Affiliates ceases to constitute greater than 3% of the
 
issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock (after giving effect the conversion by the Stockholder and its Affiliates of any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock owned, directly or indirectly, by such Persons) and (2) the tenth anniversary of the Closing Date, it will not, and it will cause its Affiliates not to, without the prior written consent of the Company:
 
(a) acquire, offer or propose to acquire, or agree to acquire, directly or indirectly, whether through market purchases, tender or exchange offer or otherwise, record or beneficial ownership of, or the right to vote, (i) more than 3% of the outstanding voting securities of the Company or direct or indirect rights to acquire more than 3% of the outstanding voting securities of the Company or any subsidiary thereof, or of any successor to or person in control of the Company, or any assets of the Company or any subsidiary or division thereof or of any such successor or controlling person, or (ii) more than 14.9% of the outstanding capital stock of the Company or direct or indirect rights to acquire more than 14.9% of the outstanding common stock of the Company or any subsidiary thereof, or of any successor to or person in control of the Company, or any assets of the Company or any subsidiary or division thereof or of any such successor or controlling person;
 
(b) make or in any way participate, directly or indirectly, in any "solicitation" of "proxies" to vote (as such terms are used in the rules of the SEC), or seek to advise or influence any person or entity with respect to the voting of any voting securities of the Company;
 
(c) other than as contemplated by the Transaction Agreement, propose or seek to effect a merger, consolidation, recapitalization, reorganization, restructuring, sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of or other business combination involving, or a tender or exchange offer for securities of, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any material portion of the Company's or such subsidiary's business or assets or any other type of transaction that would result in a change in control of the Company;
 
(d) other than as contemplated by the Transaction Agreement, make any public announcement with respect to, or submit a proposal for or offer of (with or without conditions), any extraordinary transaction involving the Company or any of its securities or assets;
 
(e) seek to exercise any control or influence over the management of the Company or its board of directors or any of the businesses, operations or policies of the Company;
 
(f) form, join or in any way participate in a "group" as defined in Regulation 13D-G under the Exchange Act, in connection with any of the foregoing; or
 
(g) request the Company, directly or indirectly, to amend or waive any provision of this paragraph.
 
(h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 16, nothing shall (i) restrict sales of Common Stock by any Affiliate or subsidiary of the Stockholder as nominee of customers or in connection with banking, brokerage or asset management activities in the ordinary course of business, (ii) prevent or restrict acquisitions of a previously unaffiliated business or entity that owns securities of the Company; (iii) prevent the increase of the Stockholder's Beneficial Ownership of securities of the Company above 3% or more of securities of the Company then outstanding as a result of a reduction in the number of securities of the Company outstanding due to the repurchase of securities by the Company; or (iv) prevent an inadvertent increase of the Stockholder's Beneficial Ownership of securities of the Company above 3% or more of the securities of the Company then outstanding, , , the Stockholder, after becoming aware of such inadvertent increase and upon the written request of the Company, sells such securities of the Company as necessary to reduce the Stockholder's Beneficial Ownership of securities of the Company below 3% within ten (10) business days of such request.
provided
that
 
17. Miscellaneous.
 
(a) . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be hand delivered or mailed postage prepaid by registered or certified mail or by facsimile transmission (with immediate telephone confirmation thereafter) and, in the case of the Stockholder, shall also be sent via e-mail,
Notices
 
If to the Company:
 
Legg Mason, Inc.
100 Light Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21202
Attention: Deputy General Counsel
Facsimile No.: (410) 454-4607
 
with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):
 
Shearman & Sterling LLP
599 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10022
Attention: John A. Marzulli Jr.
Facsimile No.: (646) 848-8590
 
If to the Stockholder:
 
Citigroup Inc.
399 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10022
Facsimile No.: (212) 559-7057
Email: felnera@citigroup.com
 
With a copy to:
 
Citigroup Inc.
425 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10022
Facsimile No.: (212) 793-7600
Email: dyej@citigroup.com
 
If to a transferee Stockholder, to the address of such transferee Stockholder set forth in the transfer documentation provided to the Company;
 
in each case with copies to (which shall not constitute notice):
 
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
Four Times Square
New York, New York 10036-6522
Attention: Gregory A. Fernicola, Esq.
Facsimile No.: (212) 735-2000
 
or at such other address as such party each may specify by written notice to the others, and each such notice, request, consent and other communication shall for all purposes of the Agreement be treated as being effective or having been given when delivered personally, upon one Business Day after being deposited with a courier if delivered by courier, upon receipt of facsimile confirmation if transmitted by facsimile, or, if sent by mail, at the earlier of its receipt or 72 hours after the same has been deposited in a regularly maintained receptacle for the deposit of United States mail, addressed and postage prepaid as aforesaid.
 
(b) . No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
No Waivers
 
(c) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. If the outstanding Common Stock is converted into or exchanged or substituted for other securities issued by any other Person, as a condition to the effectiveness of the merger, consolidation, reclassification, share exchange or other transaction pursuant to which such conversion, exchange, substitution or other transaction takes place, such other Person shall automatically become bound hereby with respect to such other securities constituting Registrable Securities and, if requested by the Stockholder or a permitted transferee, shall further evidence such obligation by executing and delivering to the Stockholder and such transferee a written agreement to such effect in form and substance satisfactory to the Stockholder.
Successors and Assigns
 
(d) . This agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
(e) . Any suit, action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby may be brought in any federal or state court located in the County and State of New York, and each of the parties hereby consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding which is brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on any party anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees that service of process on such party as provided in Section 17(a) shall be deemed effective service of process on such party.
Jurisdiction
 
(f) . EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
(g) . This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts (including by facsimile), with the same effect as if each of the parties had signed the same document. Each such counterpart shall be deemed an original, shall be construed together and shall constitute one and the same instrument. This Agreement shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received counterparts hereof signed by the other party hereto.
Counterparts; Effectiveness
 
(h) . This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes and replaces all other prior agreements, written or oral, among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
 
(i) . The headings and other captions in this Agreement are for convenience and reference only and shall not be used in interpreting, construing or enforcing any provision of this Agreement.
Captions
 
(j) . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such a determination, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible.
Severability
 
(k) . The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to or departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, without the written consent of the Company and the Stockholder.
Amendments
 
(l) . All Registrable Common Stock held by or acquired by any Affiliated Persons will be aggregated together for the purpose of determining the availability of any rights under this Agreement.
Aggregation of Stock
 
(m) . The parties hereto agree that legal remedies may be inadequate to enforce the provisions of this Agreement and that equitable relief, including specific performance and injunctive relief, may be used to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
Equitable Relief
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Registration and Investor Rights Agreement has been duly executed by each of the parties hereto as of the date first written above.
 
 
Exhibit A
 
 
The Company is registering the shares of common stock covered by this prospectus for the selling stockholder. As used in this prospectus, "selling stockholder" includes the donees, transferees, pledgees or others who may later hold the selling stockholder's interests. Pursuant to a registration rights agreement, dated as of December 1, 2005, the Company agreed to register the common stock owned by the selling stockholder and to indemnify the selling stockholder against certain liabilities related to the selling of the common stock, including liabilities arising under the Securities Act. Under the registration rights agreement, the Company also agreed to pay the costs and fees of registering the shares of common stock; however, the selling stockholder will pay any brokerage commissions or underwriting discounts relating to the sale of the shares of common stock.
 
The selling stockholder may sell the common stock being offered hereby in one or more of the following ways at various times:
 
 
 
 
The selling shareholder may offer its shares of common stock in one or more offerings pursuant to one or more prospectus supplements, if required by applicable law, and any such prospectus supplement will set forth the terms of the relevant offering to the extent required. To the extent the shares of common stock offered pursuant to a prospectus supplement remain unsold, the selling shareholder may offer those shares of common stock on different terms pursuant to another prospectus supplement.
 
The selling stockholder will act independently of the Company in making decisions with respect to the timing, manner and size of each sale. The selling stockholder may sell the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange or otherwise, at market prices prevailing at the time of sale, at prices related to the prevailing market prices, or at negotiated prices. If underwriters are used in the sale, the common stock will be acquired by the underwriters for their own account and may be resold at various times in one or more transactions, including negotiated transactions, at a fixed public offering price or prices, which may be changed, at market prices prevailing at the time of sale, at prices related to such prevailing market prices, or at negotiated prices. A distribution of the common stock by the selling stockholder may also be effected through the issuance by the selling stockholder or others of derivative securities, including without limitation, warrants, exchangeable securities, forward delivery contracts and the writing of options.
 
In addition, the selling stockholder may sell some or all of the shares of common stock covered by this prospectus through:
 
 
 
 
 
The selling stockholder may also enter into hedging transactions. For example, the selling stockholder may:
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the selling stockholder may enter into derivative or hedging transactions with third parties, or sell securities not covered by this prospectus to third parties in privately negotiated transactions. In connection with such a transaction, the third parties may sell securities covered by and pursuant to this prospectus and an applicable prospectus supplement. If so, the third party may use securities borrowed from the selling stockholder or others to settle such sales and may use securities received from the selling stockholder to close out any related short positions. The selling stockholder may also
 
loan or pledge securities covered by this prospectus and an applicable prospectus supplement to third parties, who may sell the loaned securities or, in an event of default in the case of a pledge, sell the pledged securities pursuant to this prospectus and the applicable prospectus supplement.
 
The applicable prospectus supplement will set forth the terms of the offering of the common stock covered by this prospectus, including:
 
 
 
Any public offering price and any discounts, commissions, concessions or other items constituting compensation allowed or reallowed or paid to underwriters, dealers or agents may be changed from time to time.
 
The selling stockholder may negotiate and pay broker-dealers' commissions, discounts or concessions for their services. Broker-dealers engaged by the selling stockholder may allow other broker-dealers to participate in resales. The selling stockholder and any broker-dealers involved in the sale or resale of the common stock may qualify as "underwriters" within the meaning of Section 2(a)(11) of the Securities Act. In addition, the broker-dealers' commissions, discounts or concessions may qualify as underwriters' compensation under the Securities Act. If the selling stockholder qualifies as an "underwriter," it will be subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of Section 5(b)(2) of the Securities Act.
 
In addition to selling its common stock under this prospectus, the selling stockholder may:
 
 
 
 
 
The selling stockholder may offer the shares of common stock to or through any broker-dealer subsidiary of Citigroup, including Citigroup Global Markets Inc. The broker-dealer subsidiaries of Citigroup are members of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and may participate in distributions of the offered common stock. Accordingly, public offerings of offered common stock in which Citigroup's broker-dealer subsidiaries participate will conform to the requirements set forth in Rule 2710(h) of the Conduct Rules of the NASD.
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This (this ""), dated as of December 1, 2005 (the ""), by and between , a Delaware corporation (""), and , a Maryland corporation ("," together with Seller, the "," and each individually a "").
TRANSITION SERVICES AGREEMENT
Agreement
Effective Date
CITIGROUP INC.
Seller
LEGG MASON, INC.
Purchaser
Parties
Party
 
 
WHEREAS, Legg Mason and Citigroup have entered into a Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 23, 2005 (as amended, the ""), under which Citigroup is selling to Legg Mason the CAM Business (as defined in the Transaction Agreement) and Legg Mason is selling to Citigroup the PC/CM Business (as defined in the Transaction Agreement); and
Transaction Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing of the Transaction (as defined in the Transaction Agreement).
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, agreements and promises herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
Section 1.1 . Capitalized terms used in this Agreement but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Transaction Agreement. In addition, for the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a).
Additional Service
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this agreement.
Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.
Base Cost
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1.
Base Term
 
"" shall mean the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on December 31, 2005 or such other date as may be agreed to by the Parties.
Benefits Transition Period
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
COBRA Coverage
"" shall mean that certain Cross-License Agreement, dated as of even date herewith, by and between Seller and Purchaser.
Cross-License Agreement
 
"" shall mean all costs incurred by the party providing a Service in connection with providing such Service.
Direct Cost
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.15.
Dispute
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this Agreement.
Effective Date
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.15.
Executive Committee
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.
Extension Term
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b).
Fees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(a).
Force Majeure Event
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2.
Indemnified Parties
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.3.
Indemnifying Party
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.6.
Indemnity Payments
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(b).
Indonesian Services
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3.
Omitted Service
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this Agreement.
Party
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Party providing Services hereunder, the employees, officers, agents, independent contractors and consultants of (a) such Party; (b) the Affiliates of such Party; and (c) any third parties engaged by such Party or its Affiliates to provide the Services.
Personnel
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this Agreement.
Purchaser
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(b).
Purchaser Confidential Information
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b).
Purchaser Fees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2.
Purchaser Indemnified Parties
 
"" shall mean, as applicable, (a) Purchaser, its Affiliates and third parties engaged by Purchaser or its Affiliates to provide Services, when providing Services or (b) Purchaser and its Subsidiaries, when receiving Services.
Purchaser Parties
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a)(i).
Purchaser Services
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(c).
Representatives
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5.
Resumed Service
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.5.
Sales Taxes
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(a).
Security Regulations
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this Agreement.
Seller
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(a).
Seller Confidential Information
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a).
Seller Fees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.3.
Seller Indemnified Parties
 
"" shall mean, as applicable, (a) Seller, its Affiliates and third parties engaged by Seller or its Affiliates to provide Services, when providing Services or (b) Seller and its Subsidiaries, when receiving Services.
Seller Parties
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
Seller Payroll Services
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a)(i).
Seller Services
 
"" shall mean the business of Seller and its Affiliates (other than the CAM Business).
Seller's Business
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6.
Service Coordinator
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a)(i).
Services
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(a).
Systems
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.
Term
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.
Third Party Claim
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Transaction Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
Transition Benefits Plans
 
 
 
Section 2.1 .
Services to be Provided to Purchaser
 
(a) .
In General
 
(i) Seller shall provide, or shall cause its Affiliates or third parties to provide, to the Purchaser Parties all services (other than investment advisory services) provided to the CAM Business in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date to the extent provided prior to the Effective Date (it being understood that with respect to each service, "extent" shall mean, in all material respects, the amount, level, frequency, functionality and quality (including the level of care exercised in the performance) of such service, except as otherwise (A) provided herein, or (B) agreed to by the Parties), as set forth on (together with the Seller Payroll Services and any Omitted Services and Resumed Services provided by Seller, the "").
Schedule 2.1(a)
Seller Services
 
(ii) In the event that Purchaser internally restructures, reorganizes or transfers the CAM Business to an Affiliate or a third party, Seller shall continue to provide the Seller Services to such Affiliate or third party to the extent provided prior to such restructuring, reorganization or transfer, but only insofar as such Affiliate or such third party continues to conduct the CAM Business.
 
(b) .
Employee Benefits, Payroll Administration and Other HR Services
 
(i) Seller shall, or shall cause its Affiliates or third parties to (A) provide the Purchaser Parties with payroll services, (B) facilitate the operation and implementation of, and provide administration services with respect to, the employee health and welfare benefits plans, retirement plans and other employee benefit plans for the CAM Continuing Business Employees and any other employees described on and (C) provide health and welfare benefits, retirement benefits and other employee benefits for CAM Continuing Business Employees and any other employees described on during the Benefits Transition Period, in each case, as set forth on (the "") and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth on . Seller will give at least the same priority to rendering the Seller Payroll Services to the Purchaser Parties as Seller gives to providing comparable services to its business units. During the Benefits Transition Period, Seller shall continue to administer and provide coverage pursuant to the health and welfare benefit plans, retirement plans and other employee benefit plans of Seller as provided for on (the "") for the benefit of all CAM Continuing Business Employees and any other employees described on , and their
Schedule 2.1(b)
Schedule 2.1(b)
Schedule 2.1(b)
Seller Payroll Services
Schedule 2.1(b)
Schedule 2.1(b)
Transition Benefits Plans
Schedule 2.1(b)
 
eligible dependents and beneficiaries, on substantially the same basis as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date (except as otherwise set forth on ) for such individuals. Except with respect to Seller Parties' gross negligence or willful misconduct or as otherwise provided in the Transaction Agreement, Purchaser shall be liable, and Seller shall have no liability, for all benefits, claims and costs incurred by Seller and/or Purchaser under the Transition Benefits Plans in respect of events occurring during the Benefits Transition Period to the same extent that Purchaser would have been liable for such benefits, claims and costs (including actual benefits, claims and costs associated with continuation of group health plan coverage required under Part 6 of Title I of ERISA ("")) if Purchaser had newly established and was the sole sponsor of the Transition Benefits Plans during such period. Following the Benefits Transition Period, Purchaser shall assume, under Purchaser welfare benefit plans, the COBRA Coverage of all CAM Continuing Business Employees still receiving such COBRA Coverage, and the Seller shall no longer administer such plans; , , that Seller shall provide administrative support with respect to any claims incurred prior to the end of the Benefits Transition Period.
Schedule 2.1(b)
COBRA Coverage
provided
however
 
(ii) Seller shall provide Purchaser Parties such personnel data (i) as may be reasonably necessary to assist Purchaser in creating a payroll system and administering health and welfare benefits, retirement benefits and other employee benefits for the CAM Continuing Business Employees and any other employees described on and (ii) documents as Purchaser may reasonably request (including requests for any such data for purposes of satisfying or meeting any obligation under a subpoena or other similar legal order).
Schedule 2.1(b)
 
Section 2.2 .
Services to be Provided to Seller
 
(a) .
In General
 
(i) Purchaser shall provide, or shall cause its Affiliates or third parties to provide, to the Seller Parties all services (other than investment advisory services) provided to the Seller's Business in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date to the extent provided prior to the Effective Date (it being understood that with respect to each service, "extent" shall mean, in all material respects, the amount, level, frequency, functionality and quality (including the level of care exercised in the performance) of such service, except as otherwise (A) provided herein, or (B) agreed to by the Parties), as set forth on (together with the Indonesian Services and any Omitted Services and Resumed Services provided by Purchaser, the "" and, together with the Seller Services and the Additional Services, the "").
Schedule 2.2(a)
Purchaser Services
Services
 
(ii) In the event that Seller internally restructures, reorganizes or transfers the business to which the Purchaser Services relate to an Affiliate or a third party, Purchaser shall be obligated to continue to provide the
 
Purchaser Services to such Affiliate or third party to the extent provided prior to such restructuring, reorganization or transfer, but only insofar as such Affiliate or such third party continues to conduct the business to which the Purchaser Services relate.
 
(b) . Purchaser shall, or shall cause its Affiliates or third parties to provide, to the Seller Parties the services set forth on (the ""). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein: (i) the Base Term of the Indonesian Services shall be four (4) months, (ii) the Extension Term of the Indonesian Services shall be five (5) months, (iii) during the Base Term for the Indonesian Services, the Base Cost of the Indonesian Services shall be $117,000 U.S. Dollars per month and (iv) during the Extension Term for the Indonesian Services, the Base Cost of the Indonesian Services shall be $142,000 U.S. Dollars per month.
Indonesian Services
Schedule 2.2(b)
Indonesian Services
 
Section 2.3 . If, at any time within one hundred and fifty (150) days following the Effective Date, either Party becomes aware of any service that had been provided prior to the Effective Date that is not included on , or , as applicable, and which the Parties had not specifically agreed to omit from such schedule (each such service, an ""), then upon notice to the other Party, such service will be added to the applicable schedule and become a Seller Service, Seller Payroll Service or Purchaser Service, as applicable. The Party that must resume such Service shall resume provision of such Service as soon as reasonably practicable. The cost of any Omitted Service shall be determined in accordance with Section 4.1.
Omitted Services
Schedule 2.1(a)
Schedule 2.1(b)
Schedule 2.2(a)
Omitted Service
 
Section 2.4 .
Additional Services
 
(a) If either Party desires to receive an additional service (or to expand the scope or lengthen the duration of any Service) that is not an Omitted Service or a Resumed Service, the Service Coordinators shall meet (in person or by telephone) within ten (10) days of the other Party's receipt of a written notice by the Party desiring to receive such additional service to discuss in good faith whether and on what terms and conditions such other Party is willing to provide such additional service (or such expanded scope or lengthened duration of a Service) (each such service, to the extent provided, will be considered an "").
Additional Service
 
(b) The Parties shall mutually agree on the scope, terms, Base Cost and duration of all Additional Services, all of which shall be set forth on , as amended from time to time.
Schedule 2.4
 
Section 2.5 . If after a Service (a) has been terminated in accordance with Section 10.3 by the Party that received such Service or (b) that had been provided prior to the Effective Date was specifically omitted by the Parties from or , as applicable, the applicable receiving Party is unable to provide such service for itself despite using its commercially reasonable efforts to do so, then such receiving Party shall so notify the Party that provided such service, and such providing Party will resume providing such service, if commercially and technologically feasible and subject to such providing Party's ability to obtain any third party consents necessary to provide the service (each, a ""). The Party that received such Service shall be responsible for all
Resumed Services
Schedule 2.1(a)
Schedule 2.2(a)
Resumed Service
 
costs of the Party that provided such Service associated with resuming such Service, and to the extent reasonably practicable, such providing Party shall provide such receiving Party with advance notice of such expenses.
 
Section 2.6 . Seller and Purchaser shall each nominate a representative to act as the primary contact person with respect to the performance of the Services (each, a ""). Unless otherwise agreed upon by the Parties, all communications relating to this Agreement and to the Services provided hereunder shall be directed to the Service Coordinators. The initial Service Coordinators for Purchaser and Seller, including relevant contact information, are set forth on . Either Party may replace its Service Coordinator at any time by providing notice in accordance with Section 11.3 of this Agreement.
Service Coordinators
Service Coordinator
Schedule 2.6
 
Section 2.7 . Each Party shall (and shall cause any party performing services on its behalf to) use commercially reasonable efforts, skill and judgment in providing the Services. Without limiting the foregoing, all Services shall be provided in a timely and workmanlike manner, consistent with recent past practice and to the extent provided prior to the Effective Date.
Standard of Performance
 
Section 2.8 .
Cooperation
 
(a) Each Party shall, and shall cause its respective Affiliates and use commercially reasonable efforts to cause its third party service providers, to reasonably cooperate with the other Party in all matters relating to the provision and receipt of the Services and to minimize the expense, distraction and disturbance to each Party, shall perform all obligations hereunder in good faith and in accordance with principles of fair dealing and shall not engage in any willful or intentional misconduct, gross negligence, common law fraud or otherwise violate any Requirements of Law. Such cooperation shall include (i) the execution and delivery of such further instruments or documents as may be reasonably requested by the other Party to enable the full performance of each Party's obligations hereunder and (ii) notifying the other Party in advance of any changes to a Party's operating environment or Personnel (especially changes with respect to employee status), and working with the other Party to minimize the effect of such changes.
 
(b) Each Party will use commercially reasonable efforts to provide information and documentation necessary for the other Party to perform the Seller Services or the Purchaser Services, as applicable, in the manner they were provided in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date, and will use commercially reasonable efforts to make available, as reasonably requested by the other Party, sufficient resources and timely decisions, approvals and acceptances in order that the other Party may perform its obligations under this Agreement in a timely and efficient manner.
 
(c) The Purchaser Parties and the Seller Parties shall follow, and shall cause their respective Affiliates to follow, the policies, procedures and practices of the other Party and its Affiliates applicable to the Services being provided by or on behalf of such other Party that are in effect as of the Effective Date and of which the applicable Party has been made aware.
 
Section 2.9 .
Separation and/or Segregation
 
(a) Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties in writing, Seller shall bear all costs of any separation and/or segregation activities with respect to the CAM Business (i) required under any applicable Requirements of Law as a result of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreement and the Related Agreements or (ii) undertaken upon Seller's own initiative. All separation and/or segregation activities requested by Purchaser shall be treated as requests for Additional Services, and the costs thereof shall be borne by Purchaser.
 
(b) To the extent that Seller has not completed separation and/or segregation of the CAM Business' operations and data from Seller's other operations and data prior to the Effective Date, Seller shall complete such separation and/or segregation during the Term or sooner as required by Requirements of Law, with minimal interruption to CAM's daily business, provided that such activities shall not be deemed a Service under this Agreement.
 
Section 2.10 .
Subcontracting
 
(a) . When acting as a Service provider, Seller may subcontract to another provider (including third parties and Seller's own Subsidiaries and Affiliates), or change an existing subcontractor of:
By Seller
 
(i) any Service provided solely to the CAM Business with Purchaser's prior written consent (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld).
 
(ii) any other Service upon notice to Purchaser; , that Purchaser shall have a reasonable opportunity to comment on the plan to implement such subcontracting prior to such implementation, and , , that if such change is reasonably likely to have a significant adverse effect on the level and/or quality of a material Service, the plan for implementing such change with respect to such material Service shall be subject to the Purchaser's prior written consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
provided
provided
further
 
(b) . When acting as a Service provider, Purchaser may subcontract to another provider (including third parties and Purchaser's own Subsidiaries and Affiliates), or change an existing subcontractor of:
By Purchaser
 
(i) any Service provided solely to the Seller's Business, with Seller's prior written consent (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld).
 
(ii) any other Service upon notice to Seller; , that Seller shall have a reasonable opportunity to comment on the plan to implement such subcontracting prior to such implementation, and , , that if such change is reasonably likely to have a significant adverse effect on the level and/or quality of a material Service, the plan for implementing such change with respect to such material Service shall be subject to the Seller's prior written consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
provided
provided
further
 
(c) Notwithstanding any subcontracting or change of subcontractors permitted under this Section 2.10, Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, shall always remain responsible for the performance of the Seller Services or Purchaser Services, as applicable, in accordance with the service levels, quality and costs set forth herein.
 
Section 2.11 . Either Party, when acting as a service provider, may change (a) its policies and procedures or (b) the location from which any Service is provided at any time; , that such Party shall always remain responsible for the performance of the Services in accordance with the service levels, quality and costs set forth herein. Such providing Party shall give the other Party reasonable prior notice of the change (which notice shall be provided no later than the time at which, and in the same manner as, such party provides notice of such change to any applicable Affiliates).
Certain Changes
provided
 
 
 
Section 3.1 .
General Limitations
 
(a) Unless expressly provided otherwise herein (i) Seller Parties shall be required to provide the Seller Services hereunder only to the extent that such Seller Services were provided to the CAM Business in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date and (ii) the Seller Services provided by Seller hereunder shall be available only for the purposes of conducting the CAM Business.
 
(b) Unless expressly provided otherwise herein (i) Purchaser Parties shall be required to provide the Purchaser Services hereunder only to the extent that such Purchaser Services were provided to Seller's Business in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date and (ii) the Purchaser Services provided by Purchaser hereunder shall be available only for the purposes of conducting Seller's Business.
 
(c) In no event shall either Party be obligated to maintain the employment of any specific employee or acquire any specific additional equipment or software, unless the other Party agrees to bear all associated costs; that such Party shall remain responsible for the performance of the Seller Services or Purchaser Services, as applicable, in accordance with this Agreement.
provided
 
Section 3.2 . Each Party acknowledges and agrees that the Services provided by a Party through third parties or using third party Intellectual Property are subject to the terms and conditions of any applicable agreements between the provider of such Service and such third parties. Each Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to (a) obtain any necessary consent from such third parties in order to provide such Services or (b) if any such consent is not obtained, provide acceptable alternative arrangements to provide the relevant Services sufficient for the other Party's purposes. All costs associated with (a) and (b), above, shall be borne by the Party receiving the applicable Service, except that any one time
Third Party Limitations
 
costs incurred in connection with the migration of any Service to an alternative arrangement shall be borne by the Party providing the applicable Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Party providing the applicable Service shall provide reasonable prior notice to the Party receiving the applicable Service of the costs associated with (a) and (b), and the Parties shall cooperate to mitigate such costs (including exploring alternative arrangements, if any).
 
Section 3.3 . Neither Party shall provide, or cause to be provided, any Service to the extent that the provision of such Service would require such Party, any of its Affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents or representatives to violate (a) any applicable Requirements of Law, (b) any policies and/or procedures of such Party designed to respond to a Requirement of Law, to a new legal or regulatory issue or to a security threat or (c) any other policies and/or procedures of such Party in existence on the Effective Date. If a Party cannot provide a Service due to (c), above, the Parties shall cooperate in good faith to identify an acceptable alternative arrangement to provide the affected Service sufficient for the purposes of the other Party; , that the Party providing such Service shall bear any additional costs resulting from such acceptable alternative arrangement.
Compliance with Laws
provided
 
Section 3.4 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, in no event shall the Seller Services include any of the services set forth on .
Excluded Seller Services
Schedule 3.4
 
Section 3.5 .
Force Majeure
 
(a) The Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide, or cause to be provided, the Services without interruption. In the event that any Party providing, or causing to be provided, Services is wholly or partially prevented from, or delayed in, providing one or more Services, or one or more Services are interrupted or suspended, by reason of events beyond its reasonable control (including acts of God, fire, explosion, floods, embargoes, epidemics, war, acts of terrorism, nuclear disaster, labor strikes, civil unrest and/or riots) (each, a ""), such Party shall not be obligated to deliver the affected Services during such period, and the Party that would have received such Services shall not be obligated to pay for any Services not delivered.
Force Majeure Event
 
(b) Upon the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, the affected Party shall promptly give written notice to the other Party of the Force Majeure Event upon which it intends to rely to excuse its performance, and of the expected duration of such Force Majeure Event. The duties and obligations of such Party hereunder shall be tolled for the duration of the Force Majeure Event, but only to the extent that the Force Majeure Event prevents such Party from performing its duties and obligations hereunder.
 
(c) During the duration of a Force Majeure Event, the affected Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to avoid or remove such Force Majeure Event, and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to resume its performance under this Agreement with the least practicable delay. From and during the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, the other Party may replace the affected Services by providing such Services for itself or engaging a third party to provide such Services.
 
(d) For the period beginning sixty (60) days after the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event and ending upon the termination of such Force Majeure Event, the affected Party shall pay or reimburse, as applicable, the difference, if any, between (i) all of the other Party's reasonable costs associated with any replacement Services and (ii) the amount the other Party would have paid to such Party under the terms of this Agreement for the provision of such Services had such Party continued to perform such Services.
 
Section 3.6 . No Party shall be required to provide disaster recovery Services to the extent that the Party that would receive such Services has materially altered the equipment, hardware or software to which such disaster recovery Services pertain.
Disaster Recovery Services
 
Section 3.7 . Each Party acknowledges that the purpose of this Agreement is to provide Services to the other Party on an interim basis, until such Party can perform the Services for itself. Accordingly, at all times from and after the Effective Date, each of Seller and Purchaser shall use its respective commercially reasonable efforts to make or obtain any approvals, permits or licenses, implement any computer systems and take, or cause to be taken, any and all other actions necessary or advisable for it to provide the Services for itself as soon as reasonably practicable.
Interim Basis Only
 
Section 3.8 . In providing the Services, no Party shall take any action that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the assets or business of the other Party or any of its Affiliates, or on the ability of the other Party to comply with its obligations under this Agreement, without obtaining such other Party's prior written consent.
No Adverse Effect
 
Section 3.9 .
Non Performance
 
(a) . If Seller fails to timely provide, or cause to be provided, one or more Seller Services, other than as a result of and during the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, and such failure prevents Purchaser from operating the CAM Business as it was operated in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date, from and during such failure to provide such Seller Services, Purchaser, after providing prior written notice to Seller, may replace the affected Seller Services by providing such Seller Services for itself or engaging a third party to provide such Seller Services. In addition to any other remedies that Purchaser may be entitled to, Seller shall also pay Purchaser the difference, if any, between (i) all of Purchaser's reasonable costs associated with such replacement Seller Services and (ii) the amount Purchaser would have paid to Seller under the terms of this Agreement for the provision of such Seller Services, had Seller Parties continued to perform such Seller Services.
By Seller
 
(b) . If Purchaser fails to timely provide, or cause to be provided, one or more Purchaser Services, other than as a result of and during the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, and such failure prevents Seller from operating the Seller's Business as it was operated in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date, from and during such failure to provide such Purchaser Services, Seller, after providing prior written notice to Purchaser, may replace the affected Purchaser Services by providing such Purchaser Services for itself or engaging a third party to provide such Purchaser Services. In addition to any other remedies that
By Purchaser
 
Seller may be entitled to, Purchaser shall also pay Seller the difference, if any, between (i) all of Seller's reasonable costs associated with such replacement Purchaser Services and (ii) the amount Seller would have paid to Purchaser under the terms of this Agreement for the provision of such Purchaser Services, had Purchaser Parties continued to perform such Purchaser Services.
 
 
 
Section 4.1 .
Base Term Fees
 
(a) In consideration for the Seller Services and any Additional Services provided by Seller hereunder, Purchaser shall pay to Seller all Direct Costs of Seller Parties in connection with providing each Seller Service that are currently charged to the CAM Business (with respect to each Seller Service, the ""), the Base Cost of each Additional Service and any reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by Seller Parties in connection with providing the Seller Service or Additional Service, as applicable (collectively, the ""). The current Base Cost of each Seller Service is set forth on or , as applicable. The Base Cost for each Additional Service shall be determined on a case by case basis as mutually agreed to by the Parties under Section 2.4(b).
Base Cost
Seller Fees
Schedule 2.1(a)
Schedule 2.1(b)
 
(b) In consideration for the Purchaser Services and any Additional Services provided by Purchaser hereunder, Seller shall pay to Purchaser all Direct Costs of Purchaser Parties in connection with providing each Purchaser Service that are currently charged by the CAM Business (with respect to each Purchaser Service, the ""), the Base Cost of each Additional Service and any reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by Purchaser Parties in connection with providing the Purchaser Service or Additional Service, as applicable (collectively, the "" and, together with the Seller Fees, the ""). The current Base Cost of each Purchaser Service is set forth on . The Base Cost for each Additional Service shall be determined on a case by case basis as mutually agreed to by the Parties under Section 2.4(b).
Base Cost
Purchaser Fees
Fees
Schedule 2.2(a)
 
Section 4.2 . Upon the commencement of the Extension Term, and at the beginning of each quarter year thereafter, the Base Cost of each Service being provided during the Extension Term shall increase by 2.5% of such Service's then current Base Cost.
Extension Term Fees
 
Section 4.3 .
Adjustments to Base Cost
 
(a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, in the event that the Direct Costs of Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, to provide a Service increase or decrease (including as a result of increases in volume under any contract), Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, may adjust the Base Cost of providing such Service by the amount of such increase or decrease, in connection with and only to the extent that such adjustment is generally applicable to all recipients of such Service, including similar services provided to Affiliates of the Party providing the Service.
Increases or Decreases in Direct Costs
 
(b) . The Parties shall meet (in person or via telephone) on a monthly basis to review the Services provided during the previous month. At each such meeting, the Parties shall adjust the applicable Base Cost for each Service for which the Base Cost is determined by reference to the number of units used during a given month. Such adjustment shall be based on the number of units of each such Service added or reduced, as applicable, during the preceding month multiplied by the unit cost of each such Service, plus a proportional adjustment in the Base Cost of any associated Service. All adjustments to the Base Cost of a Service pursuant to this Section 4.3(b) shall be subject to the terms and conditions of any third party contract used to provide such Service.
Adjustment Mechanism
 
Section 4.4 .
Billing and Payment Terms
 
(a) For each country in which a party provides Services to a recipient located in the same country: (i) such providing party shall invoice the party receiving such Services on a monthly basis (such invoice to set forth a description of the Services provided and reasonable documentation to support the charges thereon) for all Services that such providing party delivered during the preceding month, denominated in the local currency of such country, (ii) each such invoice shall be payable within sixty (60) days after such receiving party's receipt of the invoice and (iii) payment of such invoices shall be made by such receiving party to such providing party in the local currency of the applicable country. Any Service for which the foregoing process does not apply shall be invoiced by the Party providing such Service to the Party receiving such Service in accordance with the foregoing timetable and in U.S. Dollars, and shall be paid by the Party receiving such Services in accordance with the foregoing timetable and in U.S. Dollars.
 
(b) If any undisputed invoice or undisputed portion of an invoice is not paid in full within sixty (60) days after the date of the invoice, interest shall accrue on the unpaid amount at the annual rate equal to the "Prime Rate" as reported on the thirtieth day after the date of the invoice in (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day immediately after such day), calculated on the basis of a year of three hundred sixty (360) days and the actual number of days elapsed between the end of the sixty (60) day period and the actual payment date.
The Wall Street Journal
 
(c) A Party may dispute any or all charges for ninety (90) days after the receipt of the applicable invoice. If a Party disputes any charges, the Parties shall work together in good faith to resolve such dispute in accordance with Section 11.15. If the resolution of such a dispute is that a Party owes an amount of money to the other Party, the Party that owes money shall add a credit of such owed amount to the next invoice that such Party prepares as a Service provider, , that if no further such invoices are due, the Party owing such amount shall pay it to the other Party within sixty (60) days following resolution of the dispute. A failure by a Party to dispute a charge within ninety (90) days after receipt of invoice shall not waive such Party's audit and collection rights under Section 5.5.
provided
 
(d) The Parties acknowledge that there may be a lag in the submission of charges from third parties relating to the provision of Services, and that the Party providing Services through such third parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such third party invoices, and to provide same to the other Party, in a timely fashion.
 
(e) The existence of a dispute pursuant to Section 4.4(c) above shall not excuse either Party from any other obligation under this Agreement, including each Party's obligations to continue to provide Services hereunder.
 
Section 4.5 . All consideration under this Agreement, is exclusive of any sales, transfer, value added, goods or services tax or similar gross receipts based tax (including any such taxes that are required to be withheld, but excluding all other taxes including taxes based upon or calculated by reference to income, receipts or capital) imposed against or on services provided ("") by a Party providing Services hereunder and such Sales Taxes will be added to the consideration where applicable. Such Sales Taxes shall be separately stated on the relevant invoice to the Party receiving Services hereunder. All taxable goods and services for which a Party receiving Services hereunder is compensating, or reimbursing, a Party providing Services hereunder shall be set out separately from non taxable goods and services, if practicable. The Party receiving Services hereunder shall be responsible for any such Sales Taxes and shall either (i) remit such Sales Taxes to the Party providing Services hereunder (and such providing Party shall remit the such amounts to the applicable taxing authority) or (ii) provide such providing Party with a certificate or other acceptable proof evidencing an exemption from liability for such Sales Taxes. In the event the Party providing Services hereunder fails timely to invoice Sales Taxes on taxable goods or services covered by this Agreement, such providing Party shall notify the Party receiving Services hereunder in a timely manner and such receiving Party shall remit such Sales Taxes to such providing Party, , , that such receiving Party shall not be responsible for the payment of any additions to such Sales Taxes, including penalties and interest imposed due to a failure by such providing Party to remit or cause to be remitted such Sales Taxes in a timely manner to the appropriate taxing authority, unless such failure relates to the failure of the such receiving Party to pay to such providing Party the amount of the Sales Taxes properly invoiced in accordance with the terms herein.
Sales Taxes
Sales Taxes
provided
however
 
Section 4.6 . In no event shall a Party offset any amounts due hereunder for its receipt of Services by amounts owed to it hereunder for its provision of Services.
Offset
 
 
 
Section 5.1 .
Access; Work Policy
 
(a) At all times during the Term, each Party shall provide, and shall cause its Affiliates and third parties to provide, the other Party and its Personnel reasonable ingress to and egress from its facilities and premises, and reasonable access to its equipment and Personnel, for any purpose connected with the delivery or receipt of Services hereunder, the exercise of any right under this Agreement or the performance of any obligations required by this Agreement.
 
(b) Each Party's Personnel shall comply with the other Party's safety and security regulations applicable to each specific site or facility while working at such site or facility. Except as otherwise agreed to by the Parties, each Party's Personnel shall observe the working hours, working rules, and holiday schedules of the other Party while working on the premises of the other Party.
 
Section 5.2 .
Security Level; Additional Security Measures
 
(a) Seller Parties and Purchaser Parties shall work together to ensure that, when providing Services, they are each able to maintain their current level (or, if greater, an industry standard level) of physical and electronic security during the Term (including data security and data privacy), and to address any new security related issues, including compliance with Requirements of Law related to security and issues related to new technologies or threats.
 
(b) Any Party providing Services may take physical or information security measures that affect the manner in which Services are provided, so long as the substance or overall functionality of any affected Services remains the same as it was prior to the Effective Date; , that the Party receiving such Services shall be given reasonable, prior notice of any such physical or information security measures that are material.
provided
 
Section 5.3 . In the event of a security breach that relates to the Services, Seller Parties and Purchaser Parties shall, subject to any applicable Requirements of Law, cooperate with each other regarding the timing and manner of (a) notification to their respective customers, potential customers, employees and/or agents concerning a breach or potential breach of security and (b) disclosures to appropriate Governmental Authorities.
Security Breaches
 
Section 5.4 .
Systems Security
 
(a) If any Seller Party or Purchaser Party, or its Personnel, will be given access to any Seller Party's or Purchaser Party's, as applicable, computer systems or software ("") in connection with the performance of the Services, the accessing party or its Personnel, as the case may be, shall comply with all of such other Party's system security policies, procedures and requirements (as amended from time to time, the ""), and will not tamper with, compromise or circumvent any security or audit measures employed by such other Party.
Systems
Security Regulations
 
(b) Each Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that only those of its Personnel who are specifically authorized to have access to the Systems of the other Party gain such access, and to prevent unauthorized access, use, destruction, alteration or loss of information contained therein, including notifying its Personnel regarding the restrictions set forth in this Agreement and establishing appropriate policies designed to effectively enforce such restrictions.
 
(c) If, at any time, either Party determines that the other Party or its Personnel has sought to circumvent, or has circumvented, its Security Regulations, that any unauthorized Personnel of the other Party has accessed its Systems or that the other Party or any of its Personnel has engaged in activities that may lead to the unauthorized access, use, destruction, alteration or loss of data, information or software, such Party shall immediately terminate any such Personnel's access to the Systems and immediately notify the other Party.
 
(d) Seller Parties, Purchaser Parties and their respective Personnel, shall access and use only those Systems, and only such data and information within such Systems to which it has been granted the right to access and use. Any Party shall have the right to deny the Personnel of the other Party access to such Party's Systems, after prior written notice, in the event the Party reasonably believes that such Personnel pose a security concern.
 
(e) A material failure to comply with the Security Regulations shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement. All user identification numbers and passwords of a Party disclosed to the other Party, and any information obtained from the use of such disclosing Party's Systems, shall be deemed Seller Confidential Information or Purchaser Confidential Information, as applicable, of the disclosing Party.
 
(f) Each Party will cooperate with the other Party in investigating any apparent unauthorized access to a Party's Systems or any apparent unauthorized release by a Party or such Party's Personnel of Seller Confidential Information or Purchaser Confidential Information, as applicable. Each Party will (i) immediately notify the other Party if such Party has revoked access to its own Systems to any of its Personnel if such Personnel also has access to the other Party's Systems and (ii) will immediately revoke any access to the other Party's Systems once such Personnel no longer has a need to access the other Party's Systems.
 
Section 5.5 .
Records; Inspection and Audit Rights
 
(a) During the Term and for seven years thereafter, each Party agrees to maintain accurate records arising from or related to any Service provided hereunder, including accounting records and documentation produced in connection with the provision of any Service; , that each Party shall maintain such records for any longer duration required by any Requirement of Law that is applicable to the other Party and of which such Party has reasonable prior notice.
provided
 
(b) Upon reasonable written notice from the Party receiving a Service, the Party providing such Service shall make available to such receiving Party or its Representatives (at such receiving Party's sole expense) reasonable access to or, at the providing Party's option and expense, copies of, the records with respect to such Service during regular business hours. Such records shall include documents relating to the amounts charged by the Party providing the Service, and the Party receiving the Service shall have the right to review and audit such records to verify such amounts. In the event of any discrepancies or disputes between the amounts charged by a Party and such Party's records, the Parties shall work together to resolve such dispute in accordance with Section 11.15. If the resolution of such a dispute is that a Party owes money to the other Party, the Party to which money is owed shall add the amount owed to the next invoice that such Party prepares as a service provider; , that if no further invoices are due, the Party owing such amount shall pay it to the other Party within sixty (60) days following resolution of the dispute).
provided
 
Section 5.6 .
Risks and Controls
 
(a) sets forth the risks relating to the Services for which Seller shall periodically (but no less than annually) demonstrate to Purchaser the existence of adequate controls, by providing standard test results for such controls (as agreed to between the Parties) to Purchaser for its evaluation.
Schedule 5.6(a)
 
(b) sets forth the risks relating to the Services for which Purchaser shall periodically (but no less than annually) demonstrate to Seller the existence of adequate controls, by providing standard test results for such controls (as agreed to between the Parties) to Seller for its evaluation.
Schedule 5.6(b)
 
Section 5.7 . Each Party providing a Service shall permit the auditors (including Governmental Authorities) of the recipient of such Service charged with evaluating the Service recipient's compliance with Requirements of Law reasonable access to the providing Party's relevant documentation, facilities and personnel, as applicable, for purposes of auditing such Services for compliance with Requirements of Law.
Legal and Regulatory Audit Rights
 
Section 5.8 . In the event that (a) a Party cannot demonstrate the existence of adequate controls under Section 5.6(a) or Section 5.6(b), as applicable, or (b) an audit under Section 5.7 identifies noncompliance with a Requirement of Law, the Party providing the applicable Service shall remedy such lack of controls or noncompliance, as applicable, in a commercially reasonable time and manner.
Duty to Remedy
 
 
 
Section 6.1 . As used in this Agreement, Seller Confidential Information and Purchaser Confidential Information are defined as follows:
Confidential Information
 
(a) "" means all information (whether in written, electronic or oral form) disclosed by Seller Parties to Purchaser Parties under the terms and for purposes of this Agreement (including information disclosed in the course of negotiation of this Agreement and the terms of this Agreement) that is not generally known to the public, except for:
Seller Confidential Information
 
(i) information that is or becomes publicly available (other than through disclosure by Purchaser Parties or their Affiliates), from and after the date of public availability;
 
(ii) information disclosed to Purchaser Parties by a third party not known to be bound by any confidentiality agreement with Seller Parties; , that (A) under the circumstances of disclosure, Purchaser Parties do not owe a duty of non disclosure to such third party, (B) to the knowledge of Purchaser Parties, the third party's disclosure does not violate a duty of non disclosure owed to another Person, including any Seller Party and (C) the disclosure by the third party is not otherwise unlawful;
provided
 
(iii) information developed by Purchaser Parties independent of any Seller Confidential Information; or
 
(iv) information that is rightfully in the possession of Purchaser Parties and not subject to any duty of confidentiality as of the Effective Date.
 
(b) "" means all information (whether in written, electronic or oral form) disclosed by Purchaser Parties to Seller Parties under the terms and for purposes of this Agreement (including information disclosed in the course of negotiation of this Agreement and the terms of this Agreement) that is not generally known to the public, except for:
Purchaser Confidential Information
 
(i) information that is or becomes publicly available (other than through disclosure by Seller Parties or its Affiliates), from and after the date of public availability;
 
(ii) information disclosed to Seller Parties by a third party not known to be bound by any confidentiality agreement with Purchaser Parties; provided, that (A) under the circumstances of disclosure, Seller Parties do not owe a duty of non disclosure to such third party, (B) to the knowledge of Seller Parties, the third party's disclosure does not violate a duty of non disclosure owed to another Person, including any Purchaser Party and (C) the disclosure by the third party is not otherwise unlawful;
 
(iii) information developed by Seller Parties independent of any Purchaser Confidential Information; or
 
(iv) information that is rightfully in the possession of Seller Parties and not subject to any duty of confidentiality as of the Effective Date; , , that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, all confidential information relating to the CAM Business that is owned by Purchaser as a result of the Transaction Agreement shall be deemed Purchaser Confidential Information even if such information was rightfully in the possession of Seller Parties as of the Effective Date.
provided
however
 
(c) Each of the Seller Parties and the Purchaser Parties shall not, and shall cause its respective Affiliates and each of its and its Affiliates' directors, partners, personnel, accountants, counsel and other professional advisers ("") not to, disclose to any other person or use, except for purposes of this Agreement (and only in accordance with applicable Requirements of Law), any information that is Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, respectively, , , that Seller and Purchaser may disclose Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, respectively, to the extent permitted by any Requirements of Law (i) to its Representatives on a need to know basis in connection with the performance of such Party's obligations under this Agreement, (ii) in any report, statement, testimony or other submission to any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the such Party or (iii) in order to comply with any Requirements of Law applicable to such Party, or in response to any summons, subpoena or other legal process or formal or informal investigative demand issued to such Party in the course of any litigation, investigation or administrative proceeding.
Representatives
provided
however
 
(d) In the event that Seller, Purchaser, or any of either Party's Representatives, becomes legally compelled by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or similar judicial or administrative process to disclose any Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, respectively, such disclosing Party shall provide the other Party with prompt prior written notice of such requirement, and, to the extent reasonably practicable, cooperate with the other Party (at such other Party's expense) to obtain a protective order or similar remedy to cause Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be, not to be disclosed, including interposing all available objections thereto, such as objections based on settlement privilege. In the event that such protective order or other similar remedy is not obtained, the disclosing Party shall furnish only that portion of Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be, that has been legally compelled, and shall exercise commercially reasonable efforts to obtain assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded such disclosed Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be.
 
(e) Each Party shall, and shall cause its Representatives to, protect Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be, by using the same degree of care, but no less than a reasonable degree of care, to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of such as the Party uses to protect its own confidential information of a like nature.
 
(f) Each Party shall cause its Representatives to agree to be bound by the same restrictions on use and disclosure of Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be, as bind the Party under this Agreement in advance of the disclosure of any such Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information to them.
 
 
 
Section 7.1 .
Ownership of Data and Intellectual Property
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) all data created pursuant to a Service and on behalf of the Party receiving such Service, shall be owned by such receiving Party, and (ii) all systems, technology and Intellectual Property owned by Purchaser as a result of the Transaction Agreement shall continue to be owned by Purchaser, even if such systems, technology and Intellectual Property are serviced by Seller.
 
(b) Seller shall be the sole and exclusive owner of all source code and other Intellectual Property it creates (or, subject to the terms of any applicable third party contracts, has created on its behalf) pursuant to its performance under this Agreement, and, pursuant to the Cross-License Agreement, shall grant Purchaser a perpetual license to use the foregoing in the CAM Business; , that the foregoing perpetual license shall not apply to Trademarks, with respect to which Purchaser shall not receive any perpetual license or other perpetual use rights.
provided
 
(c) Purchaser shall be the sole and exclusive owner of all data, source code and other Intellectual Property it creates (or, subject to the terms of any applicable third party contracts, has created on its behalf) pursuant to its performance under this Agreement, and, pursuant to the Cross-License Agreement, shall grant Seller a perpetual license to use the foregoing in Seller's Business; , that the foregoing perpetual license shall not apply to Trademarks, with respect to which Seller shall not receive any perpetual license or other perpetual use rights.
provided
 
(d) To the extent that Seller and Purchaser jointly create Intellectual Property hereunder, such Intellectual Property shall be owned jointly by Seller and Purchaser (with no right of accounting); provided, that no Trademarks shall be jointly owned; and , , that if such Intellectual Property is derived from or otherwise based upon a Party's Intellectual Property, only the newly created derivative Intellectual Property shall be jointly owned, and such joint ownership shall not affect the ownership of the underlying Intellectual Property. If the Parties collaborate to create any Trademarks (i) that are derived from or based upon a Party's Intellectual Property, such Trademarks shall be owned by such Party and (ii) that are not derived from or based upon a Party's Intellectual Property, the Parties shall agree in writing before such creation which party shall own such Trademarks, and the other Party's rights therein.
provided
further
 
Section 7.2 . To the extent reasonably required by a Party providing Services, each Party shall cause the Seller Parties or Purchaser Parties, as applicable, that receive Services hereunder to execute a written agreement with such Party, sufficient to comply with any applicable Requirements of Law relating to data protection.
Data Protection
 
 
 
Section 8.1 . EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTION AGREEMENT, NEITHER PARTY MAKES, AND EACH PARTY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS, ANY AND ALL REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, WITH RESPECT TO THE SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO MERCHANTABILITY, OR SUITABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON INFRINGEMENT OF ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER AND ANY WARRANTIES ARISING FROM COURSE OF DEALING, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE OR TRADE USAGE. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT IS INTENDED TO LIMIT ANY RIGHTS OR REMEDIES OF EITHER PARTY UNDER THE TRANSACTION AGREEMENT.
Disclaimer of Representations and Warranties
 
 
 
Section 9.1 . Subject to the terms of this ARTICLE IX, from and after the Effective Date, Seller shall indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless Purchaser and its Affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, successors and assigns (collectively, the ""), from and against any and all Losses (including such fees and expenses related to the enforcement of this Agreement), to the extent resulting from or arising out of any action, suit, proceedings, claim, demand, investigation or assessment made or brought by a third party that is unaffiliated with the Indemnified Party (each, a "") to the extent arising from or related to (a) any Seller Party's breach of this Agreement or (b) infringement or misappropriation by the Services and materials provided by a Seller Party under this Agreement of such third party's (i) patents, so long as such Seller Party had knowledge of such infringement as of the Effective Date or (ii) copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets.
Indemnification of Purchaser
Purchaser Indemnified Parties
Third Party Claim
 
Section 9.2 . Subject to the terms of this ARTICLE IX, from and after the Effective Date, Purchaser shall indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless Seller and its Affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, successors and assigns (collectively, the "" and, together with the Purchaser Indemnified Parties, the ""), from and against any and all any and all Losses (including such fees and expenses related to the enforcement of this Agreement), to the extent resulting from or arising out of any Third Party Claim to the extent arising from or related to (a) any Purchaser Party's breach of this Agreement or (b) infringement or misappropriation by the Services and materials provided by a Purchaser Party under this Agreement of such third party's (i) patents, so long as such Purchaser Party had knowledge of such infringement as of the Effective Date or (ii) copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets.
Indemnification of Seller
Seller Indemnified Parties
Indemnified Parties
 
Section 9.3 .
Claims
 
(a) Upon receipt by an Indemnified Party of notice of a Third Party Claim with respect to a matter for which such Indemnified Party is indemnified under this ARTICLE IX which has given, or is reasonably expected to give, rise to a claim for Losses, the Indemnified Party shall as soon as practicable, in the case of a Purchaser Indemnified Party, notify Seller, and, in the case of a Seller Indemnified Party, notify Purchaser (Seller or Purchaser, as the case may be, the ""), in writing, indicating the nature of such Third Party Claim and the basis therefor; , , that any delay or failure by the Indemnified Party to give notice to the Indemnifying Party shall relieve the Indemnifying Party of its obligations hereunder only to the extent, if at all, that it is prejudiced by reason of such delay or failure. Such written notice requirement shall be satisfied by promptly transmitting the statement of claim, complaint, regulatory correspondence or other document triggering the indemnification to the Indemnifying Party along with a cover letter stating briefly why the Indemnified Party believes the claim is subject to indemnification. Such notice shall be sent by facsimile or overnight delivery service in accordance with Section 11.3.
Indemnifying Party
provided
however
 
(b) The Indemnifying Party shall have ten (10) Business Days after receipt of notice to elect, at its option, to assume and control the defense of, at its own expense and by its own counsel, any such Third Party Claim, and shall be entitled to assert any and all defenses available to the Indemnified Party to the fullest extent permitted under Requirements of Law.
 
(c) If the Indemnifying Party shall undertake to compromise any such Third Party Claim, it shall promptly, but in any event within ten (10) Business Days of the receipt of notice from the Indemnified Party of such Third Party Claim, notify the Indemnified Party of its intention to do so, and the Indemnified Party agrees to cooperate fully with the Indemnifying Party and its counsel in the compromise of, or defense against, any such Third Party Claim; , , that the Indemnifying Party shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect to, any such Third Party Claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) unless the relief consists solely of money Losses to be paid by the Indemnifying Party and includes a provision whereby the plaintiff or claimant in the matter releases the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or Seller Indemnified Parties, as applicable, from all liability with respect thereto.
provided
however
 
(d) Notwithstanding an election to assume the defense of any action or proceeding, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in the defense of such action or proceeding, and the Indemnifying Party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if the (i) Indemnified Party shall have determined in good faith that an actual or potential conflict of interest makes representation by the same counsel or the counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party inappropriate or (ii) Indemnifying Party shall have authorized the Indemnified Party to employ separate counsel at the Indemnifying Party's expense.
 
(e) In any event, the Indemnified Party and Indemnifying Party and their counsel shall cooperate in the defense of any Third Party Claim subject to this ARTICLE IX, keep such Persons informed of all developments relating to any such Third Party Claims and provide copies of all relevant correspondence and documentation relating thereto. All costs and expenses incurred in connection with the Indemnified Party's cooperation shall be borne by the Indemnifying Party. In any event, the Indemnified Party shall have the right at its own expense to participate in the defense of such asserted liability.
 
(f) If the Indemnifying Party receiving such notice of a Third Party Claim does not elect to defend such Third Party Claim pursuant to Section 9.3(b), or does not defend such Third Party Claim in good faith, the Indemnified Party shall have the right, in addition to any other right or remedy it may have hereunder, at the Indemnifying Party's expense, to defend such Third Party Claim; , , that the Indemnified Party shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect to, any such Third Party Claim without the written consent of the Indemnifying Party (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
provided
however
 
Section 9.4 . Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement to the contrary:
Limitations
 
(a) Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, shall not be liable for any amounts for which the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or the Seller Indemnified Parties, as applicable, are otherwise entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 9.1 or Section 9.2, as applicable, unless the amount of Losses with respect to the particular act, circumstance, development, event, fact, occurrence or omission giving rise to such Losses exceeds $50,000 and shall be liable only to the extent such Losses exceed $50,000 (aggregating all such Losses arising from the same set of facts or circumstances).
 
(b) Seller's total liability with respect to this Agreement shall not exceed, in the aggregate, two times the aggregate amount of the Seller Fees paid hereunder, except to the extent that any liability arises out of Seller's gross negligence, willful or intentional misconduct, common law fraud or other violation of any Requirements of Law.
 
(c) Purchaser's total liability with respect to this Agreement shall not exceed, in the aggregate, two times the aggregate amount of the Purchaser Fees paid hereunder, except to the extent that any liability arises out of Purchaser's gross negligence, willful or intentional misconduct, common law fraud or other violation of any Requirements of Law.
 
Section 9.5 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, in no event shall any Indemnifying Party be obligated under this ARTICLE IX to indemnify an Indemnified Party otherwise entitled to indemnity hereunder in respect of any Losses to the extent that such Losses result from (a) the Indemnified Party's willful or intentional misconduct or negligence, (b) the Indemnified Party's failure to perform its obligations under this Agreement, or (c) the Indemnified Party's violation of Requirements of Law, (d) acts of the Indemnified Party that are outside of the ordinary course of business, other than reasonable acts taken pursuant to Section 9.9 hereunder unless (i) taken at the Indemnifying Party's written request and direction or (ii) approved in advance in writing by the Indemnifying Party, or (e) acts taken by the Indemnifying Party pursuant to the Indemnified Party's specific (x) written request and direction, that no schedule to this Agreement shall constitute such a request or (y) oral request and direction, so long as such oral request or direction was made, and the acts taken in response to such oral request or direction were taken, in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice between the Parties; , that in the case of (x) or (y), such acts taken by the Indemnifying Party were in compliance with the sections of this Agreement set forth on , as applicable, unless non-compliance was specified by, or reasonably foreseeable in the fulfillment of, the request or direction of the Indemnified Party. Nothing in this Section 9.5 shall affect either Party's obligations under Section 9.9 hereunder.
Exclusions
provided
provided
Schedule 9.5(e)
 
Section 9.6 .
Payments
 
(a) Amounts payable by the Indemnifying Party to the Indemnified Party in respect of any Losses for which such Party is entitled to indemnification hereunder ("") and to which the limitations set forth in Section 9.4 do not apply shall be paid in immediately available funds within ten (10) Business Days after the later of (i) the receipt of a written request from the Indemnified Party entitled to such Indemnity Payment and (ii) the date of payment of the amount that is the subject of the Indemnity Payment by the Party entitled to receive the Indemnity Payment, except to the extent contested by the Indemnifying Party. All such Indemnity Payments shall be made to the designated account of, and in the manner specified in writing by, the Party entitled to such Indemnity Payments.
Indemnity Payments
 
(b) With respect to Indemnity Payments to which the limitations set forth in Section 9.4 do apply, if a Party's Indemnity Payments at any time exceed two times the aggregate amount of the Purchaser Fees or Seller Fees, as applicable, paid to such Party hereunder prior to the date on which the indemnification obligation arose, then such Party shall (i) pay to the Indemnified Party two (2) times the aggregate amount of Purchaser Fees or Seller Fees, as applicable, paid to such Party hereunder prior to such date and (ii) continue to pay the other Party two times the Purchaser Fees or Seller Fees, as applicable, that such Party receives following such date, until the earlier to occur of the full (A) satisfaction of such liability or (B) termination or expiration of this Agreement.
 
Section 9.7 .
Insurance; Tax Benefits
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, Losses shall be net of any insurance or other prior or subsequent recoveries actually received by the Indemnified Party or its Affiliates in connection with the facts giving rise to the claim for indemnification. If an Indemnified Party shall have used commercially reasonable efforts to recover any amounts recoverable under insurance policies and shall not have recovered the applicable Losses, the Indemnifying Party shall be liable for the amount by which such Losses exceeds the amounts actually recovered.
 
(b) Any indemnity payments made pursuant to this ARTICLE IX by any Indemnifying Party to an Indemnified Party shall be increased to account for any Tax cost incurred by the Indemnified Party upon the receipt of such payment (grossed up for such payment) and shall be made net of any Tax Benefit realized or utilized by the Indemnified Party or any of its Affiliates resulting from the payments of the amounts indemnified against giving rise to such indemnity payments. For purposes of determining the amount of any Tax Benefit or Tax cost incurred, the Indemnified Party shall be deemed to pay Tax at the highest United States federal income tax corporate marginal rate in effect in the year such indemnifiable Loss is incurred and the recipient of the Tax Benefit shall be deemed to realize or utilize any Tax Benefit in the first taxable year that such Tax Benefit may be realized or utilized under Requirements of Law after taking into account all other Tax Attributes of such indemnified party and the projected utilization of such Tax Attributes as computed by the recipient of such Tax Benefit. If a Tax Benefit resulting from the incurrence or payment of Losses is available to any Indemnified Party or its Affiliates in multiple Tax years, the amount of such Tax Benefit for purposes of this Section 9.7(b) shall be the net present value of all of such available Tax Benefits, calculated by using a discount rate equal to the long term applicable federal rate for the month in which such Losses are incurred. The amount of any increase or reduction hereunder shall be adjusted to reflect any final determination (which shall include the execution of Form 870 AD or successor form) with respect to the Indemnified Party's liability for Taxes, and any payments, if necessary, by the Indemnified Party or the Indemnifying Party to reflect such adjustment shall be made if necessary within ten (10) days of such determination.
 
Section 9.8 . The right to indemnification provided in this ARTICLE IX shall be the exclusive remedy (including equitable remedies that involve monetary
Remedies Exclusive
 
payment, such as restitution or disgorgement, other than specific performance to enforce any payment or performance due hereunder) of the Parties from and after the Effective Date in connection with any Third-Party Claims.
 
Section 9.9 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, each Indemnified Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any claim or liability that an Indemnified Party asserts or may assert under this Agreement. In the event that an Indemnified Party shall fail to make such commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any such claim or liability, then notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, neither Seller nor Purchaser, as the case may be, shall be required to indemnify any Indemnified Party for that portion of any Losses that would reasonably be expected to have been avoided if the Indemnified Party had made such efforts.
Mitigation
 
Section 9.10 . The remedies provided in this Agreement shall not be cumulative of any duplicative remedy available pursuant to the Transaction Agreement. Nothing contained in this ARTICLE IX shall limit or alter the obligation of any Party to indemnify any other Party pursuant to ARTICLE X of the Transaction Agreement.
No Double Recovery; No Limitation
 
 
 
Section 10.1 . Except as otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall become effective, and each Service shall commence, on the Effective Date, and this Agreement shall remain in force, and each Service shall continue, for a period of eighteen months thereafter or as otherwise agreed to by the Parties with respect to Additional Services (the ""), unless earlier terminated by the Parties as provided in this ARTICLE X.
Term of Agreement
Base Term
 
Section 10.2 . Not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the Base Term, Purchaser or Seller, as applicable, shall notify the other Party if such Party determines in good faith that it will not be able to complete the transition from, or to replace, one or more Services prior to the expiration of the Base Term for such Services. Provided that such Party has at all times performed its obligations under Section 2.8, the other Party shall continue to provide such Services, and, solely with respect to such Services, to extend the term of this Agreement for up to an additional six months (the "" and, together with the Base Term, the ""); , that such Party shall at all times use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize the duration of any such extension. Notwithstanding the foregoing and unless otherwise agreed to by the Parties with respect to an Additional Service, this Agreement, and any obligation to provide any Services hereunder, shall terminate no later than the date that is twenty four months after the Effective Date.
Extension of Certain Services
Extension Term
Term
provided
 
Section 10.3 .
Termination
 
(a) .
Termination by Seller or Purchaser for Material Breach
 
(i) If a Party materially breaches this Agreement, the other Party may terminate the Services affected by such material breach unless, within thirty (30) days of written notice thereof, such breaching Party (i) cures such material breach to the reasonable satisfaction of the other Party (if such material breach is subject to cure) and (ii) demonstrates, to the other Party's reasonable satisfaction, that such breaching Party has enacted remedial measures designed to prevent the breach from occurring again.
 
(ii) Upon a Party's second material breach of this Agreement with respect to a particular Service where such second material breach is substantially similar to the first material breach with respect to such Service, the other Party may terminate the Services affected by such material breach and, within thirty (30) days of written notice of such material breach, such breaching Party must (i) cure such material breach to the reasonable satisfaction of the other Party (if such material breach is subject to cure) and (ii) demonstrate, to the other Party's sole satisfaction, that such breaching Party has enacted remedial measures designed to prevent the breach from occurring again.
 
(b) . This Agreement, or any Service provided hereunder, as applicable, may be terminated by either Party (the "") upon written notice to the other Party, if:
Other Termination by Seller or Purchaser
Terminating Party
 
(i) the other Party makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or becomes insolvent, or a receiver is appointed for, or a court approves reorganization or arrangement proceedings on, such Party; or
 
(ii) required by any Governmental Entity, upon thirty (30) days' notice or sooner if necessary; , , that prior to any such notice of termination, the Parties mutually agree that this Agreement cannot be amended in a manner that will satisfy such Governmental Entity without materially changing the effect or intent of this Agreement.
provided
however
 
(c) .
Partial Termination
 
(i) Either Party, as a Service recipient, may on thirty (30) days' written notice to the other Party, terminate any Seller Service, Purchaser Service or Additional Service, as applicable. Any such terminated Service shall be deleted from Schedule 2.1(a), Schedule 2.2(a) or Schedule 2.4, as applicable, and the terminating Party shall have no obligation to continue to use or pay for any such Seller Service or Purchaser Service, as applicable; , , that this Agreement shall remain in effect until neither Party requires any Service from the other Party, or until otherwise terminated pursuant to this ARTICLE X.
provided
however
 
(ii) Any termination notice delivered by either Party pursuant to this Section 10.3(c) shall specify in detail the Service or Services to be terminated, and the effective date of such termination.
 
(d) . Once a Party has fully completed its transition from or replacement of a Service it has been receiving hereunder, such receiving Party shall immediately terminate such Service in accordance with Section 10.3(c).
Automatic Termination
 
Section 10.4 . In the event that this Agreement is terminated for any reason:
Effect of Termination
 
(a) Each Party agrees and acknowledges that the obligations of each Party to provide the Services, or to cause the Services to be provided, hereunder shall immediately cease, and any licenses to Seller Facilities and Purchaser Facilities granted hereunder shall immediately terminate. Upon cessation of the applicable Party's obligation to provide any Service, the Party receiving the Service shall stop using, directly or indirectly, such Service.
 
(b) Upon request, each Party shall, and shall cause its Affiliates and third parties (subject to the terms of such Party's agreements with such third parties) retained by such Party or Affiliates to, return to the other Party or destroy (and certify to the destruction of) all tangible personal property and books, records or files owned by such other Party or its Affiliates and third parties and used in connection with the provision of Services that are in their possession as of the termination date.
 
(c) In the event that the Party receiving a Service seeks to discontinue such Service without providing the thirty (30) day notice provided for herein, the Party receiving such Service shall be responsible to the Party providing such Service for reasonable and proper termination charges, including all reasonable cancellation costs, that are actually incurred by the Party providing such Service; , that (i) the Party providing such Service shall use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize all such costs; and (ii) such costs shall be no greater than the amount the Party receiving such Service would have paid for thirty (30) days of such Service had the Party receiving such Service actually received such Service.
provided
 
(d) The following matters shall survive the termination of this Agreement (i) the rights and obligations of each Party under Section 5.5(a), Section 5.5(b), ARTICLE VI, ARTICLE VII, ARTICLE VIII, ARTICLE IX, this Section 10.4 and ARTICLE XI and (ii) the obligations under ARTICLE IV of each Party to pay the applicable Fees for Services furnished prior to the effective date of termination.
 
 
 
Section 11.1 .
Construction
 
(a) For the purposes of this Agreement (i) words (including capitalized terms defined herein) in the singular shall be held to include the plural and vice versa and words
 
(including capitalized terms defined herein) of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the context requires, (ii) all references to the "Agreement" shall include all Exhibits, Schedules and Attachments to this Agreement unless otherwise specified, (iii) the terms "hereof," "herein" and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement as a whole (including all of the Exhibits) and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and Article, Section, paragraph and Exhibit references are to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs and Exhibits to this Agreement, unless otherwise specified, (iv) the word "including" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement mean "including without limitation," (v) "commercially reasonable efforts" shall not require a waiver by any Party of any material rights or any action or omission that would be a breach of this Agreement, (vi) all references to any period of days shall be deemed to be to the relevant number of calendar days unless otherwise specified, (vii) all references herein to "$" or dollars shall refer to United States dollars, unless otherwise specified and (viii) all terms defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed herein when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto unless otherwise defined therein.
 
(b) The Parties acknowledge and agree that, to the extent there is a conflict between the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the terms and provisions of any Exhibit (including any Attachment thereto) or Schedule hereto, the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall control.
 
(c) The Parties acknowledge that each Party and its respective counsel have reviewed and revised this Agreement, and that no rule of construction to the effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting Party shall be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement or any amendments hereto.
 
Section 11.2 . The Article and Section headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
 
Section 11.3 . All notices, demands, and other communications required or permitted to be given to any Party under this Agreement shall be in writing and any such notice, demand or other communication shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by hand, courier or overnight delivery service or, if mailed, two Business Days after deposit in the mail, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested and with first class postage prepaid or, in the case of facsimile notice, when sent and transmission is confirmed, and, regardless of method, addressed to the Party at its address or facsimile number set forth below (or at such other address or facsimile number as the Party shall furnish the other parties in accordance with this Section 11.3), with a copy sent in a like manner to the applicable Service Coordinator:
Notices
 
If to Citigroup:
 
Citigroup Inc.
399 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10043
Attn: Andrew Felner
Facsimile: (212) 559 7057
 
If to Legg Mason:
 
Legg Mason, Inc.
100 Light Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21202
Attn:    Thomas P. Lemke
           Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Facsimile: (410) 454 4607
 
Section 11.4 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Requirements of Law of the State of New York applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely within such State, without regard to the conflict of laws principles of such State.
Governing Law
 
Section 11.5 .
Jurisdiction; Venue; Consent to Service of Process
 
(a) Each Party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York or, if such court will not accept jurisdiction, the Supreme Court of the State of New York or any court of competent civil jurisdiction sitting in New York County, New York. In any action, suit or other proceeding related to this Agreement, each Party irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to assert by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise any claims that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of the above courts, that such action or suit is brought in an inconvenient forum or that the venue of such action, suit or other proceeding is improper. Each Party also hereby agrees that any final and unappealable judgment against a Party in connection with any action, suit or other proceeding related to this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on such Party and that such award or judgment may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction, either within or outside of the United States. A certified or exemplified copy of such award or judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the fact and amount of such award or judgment.
 
(b) Each Party irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for the giving of notices pursuant to Section 11.3 of this Agreement. Nothing in this Section 11.15 shall affect the right of any Party to serve process in any other manner permitted under Requirements of Law.
 
Section 11.6 . This Agreement, together with all Schedules hereto, the Transaction Agreement (except for Exhibit F-1, Exhibit F-2 and Exhibit F-3 to the Transaction Agreement), the Related Agreements and the Confidentiality Agreement, embody the entire agreement of the Parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements with respect thereto. The Parties intend that this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any judicial proceeding involving this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
 
Section 11.7 . No amendment to this Agreement shall be effective unless it shall be in writing and signed by each Party hereto. Any failure of a Party to comply with any obligation, covenant, agreement or condition contained in
Amendment, Modification and Waiver
 
this Agreement may be waived by the Party entitled to the benefits thereof only by a written instrument duly executed and delivered by the Party granting such waiver, but such waiver or failure to insist upon strict compliance with such obligation, covenant, agreement or condition shall not operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other failure of compliance.
 
Section 11.8 . If any provision of this Agreement, or the application of any such provision, is invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision of this Agreement, or invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. To the extent permitted by applicable Requirements of Law, the Parties waive any provision under Requirements of Law that renders any provision of this Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect. The Parties shall, to the extent lawful and practicable, use commercially reasonable efforts to enter into arrangements to reinstate the intended benefits, net of the intended burdens, of any such provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Severability
 
Section 11.9 . This Agreement and all its provisions shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns. Nothing in this Agreement, whether expressed or implied, will confer on any Person, other than the Parties or their respective permitted successors and assigns, any rights, remedies or liabilities; that the provisions of ARTICLE IX will inure to the benefit of the Indemnified Parties.
Successors and Assigns; No Third Party Beneficiaries
provided
 
Section 11.10 . No Party may assign its rights or obligations under this Agreement, including in the case of a merger or other change of control, without the prior written consent of the other Party (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld). Any purported assignment or transfer in violation of this Section 11.10 shall be void and shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement.
Assignment
 
Section 11.11 . TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, SUIT, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
Section 11.12 . Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, all expenses incurred in connection with the drafting and negotiation of this Agreement shall be paid by the Party incurring such expenses.
Expenses
 
Section 11.13 . This Agreement may be executed by the Parties in multiple counterparts which may be delivered by facsimile transmission. Each counterpart when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, and all such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
Section 11.14 . Each Party and its Affiliates shall be acting as an independent contractor in performing under this Agreement, and shall not be considered or deemed to be an agent, employee, joint venturer or partner of the other Party or
Relationship of the Parties
 
any of its Affiliates. Each Party and its Affiliates shall, at all times, maintain complete control over its Personnel and operations, and shall have sole responsibility for staffing, instructing and compensating its Personnel. Neither Party (nor its Affiliates) shall have, or shall represent that it has, any power, right or authority to bind the other Party (or its Affiliates) to any obligation or liability, to assume or create any obligation or liability or transact any business in the name or on behalf of the other Party (or its Affiliates), or make any promises or representations on behalf of the other Party (or its Affiliates), unless agreed to in writing.
 
Section 11.15 . In the event of any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach, termination or validity thereof, including the dispute of any fees invoiced under ARTICLE IV or any claim by any Party that any other Party has breached the material terms hereof (each, a ""), the Service Coordinators of Seller and Purchaser shall meet (by telephone or in person) no later than two (2) Business Days after receipt of notice by any Party of a request for resolution of a Dispute. The Service Coordinators shall enter into negotiations aimed at resolving any such Dispute. If the Service Coordinators are unable to reach mutually satisfactory resolution of the Dispute within ten (10) Business Days after receipt of notice of the Dispute, the Dispute shall be referred to an executive committee (the "") comprised of at least one member of the senior management of each Party. The initial members of the Executive Committee, including relevant contact information, are set forth on , and either Party may replace its Executive Committee members at any time with other representatives of similar seniority by providing notice in accordance with Section 11.3. The Executive Committee will meet (by telephone or in person) during the next ten (10) Business Days and attempt to resolve the Dispute.
Dispute Resolution
Dispute
Executive Committee
Schedule 11.15
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Party hereto has caused this Agreement to be duly executed on its behalf as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
 
 
 
This (this ""), dated as of December 1, 2005 (the ""), by and between , a Delaware corporation (""), and , a Maryland corporation ("," together with Seller, the "," and each individually a "").
PRIVATE CLIENT TRANSITION SERVICES AGREEMENT
Agreement
Effective Date
CITIGROUP INC.
Purchaser
LEGG MASON, INC.
Seller
Parties
Party
 
 
WHEREAS, Legg Mason and Citigroup have entered into a Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 23, 2005 (as amended, the ""), under which Citigroup is selling to Legg Mason the CAM Business (as defined in the Transaction Agreement) and Legg Mason is selling to Citigroup the PC/CM Business (as defined in the Transaction Agreement); and
Transaction Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing of the Transaction (as defined in the Transaction Agreement).
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, agreements and promises herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
Section 1.1 . Capitalized terms used in this Agreement but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Transaction Agreement. In addition, for the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a).
Additional Service
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this agreement.
Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.
Base Cost
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1.
Base Term
 
"" shall mean the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on December 31, 2005 or such other date as may be agreed to by the Parties.
Benefits Transition Period
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
COBRA Coverage
"" shall mean that certain Cross-License Agreement, dated as of even date herewith, by and between Seller and Purchaser.
Cross-License Agreement
 
"" shall mean all costs incurred by the party providing a Service in connection with providing such Service.
Direct Cost
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.15.
Dispute
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this Agreement.
Effective Date
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.15.
Executive Committee
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.
Extension Term
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b).
Fees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(a).
Force Majeure Event
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2.
Indemnified Parties
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.3.
Indemnifying Party
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.6.
Indemnity Payments
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3.
Omitted Service
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this Agreement.
Party
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Party providing Services hereunder, the employees, officers, agents, independent contractors and consultants of (a) such Party; (b) the Affiliates of such Party; and (c) any third parties engaged by such Party or its Affiliates to provide the Services.
Personnel
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this Agreement.
Purchaser
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(b).
Purchaser Confidential Information
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b).
Purchaser Fees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2.
Purchaser Indemnified Parties
 
"" shall mean, as applicable, (a) Purchaser, its Affiliates and third parties engaged by Purchaser or its Affiliates to provide Services, when providing Services or (b) Purchaser and its Subsidiaries, when receiving Services.
Purchaser Parties
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a)(i).
Purchaser Services
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(c).
Representatives
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5.
Resumed Service
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.5.
Sales Taxes
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(a).
Security Regulations
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this Agreement.
Seller
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(a).
Seller Confidential Information
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a).
Seller Fees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.3.
Seller Indemnified Parties
 
"" shall mean, as applicable, (a) Seller, its Affiliates and third parties engaged by Seller or its Affiliates to provide Services, when providing Services or (b) Seller and its Subsidiaries, when receiving Services.
Seller Parties
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
Seller Payroll Services
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a)(i).
Seller Services
 
"" shall mean the business of Seller and its Affiliates (other than the PC/CM Business).
Seller's Business
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6.
Service Coordinator
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a)(i).
Services
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(a).
Systems
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.
Term
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.
Third Party Claim
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Transaction Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
Transition Benefits Plans
 
 
 
Section 2.1 .
Services to be Provided to Purchaser
 
(a) .
In General
 
(i) Seller shall provide, or shall cause its Affiliates or third parties to provide, to the Purchaser Parties all services (other than investment advisory services) provided to the PC Business in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date to the extent provided prior to the Effective Date (it being understood that with respect to each service, "extent" shall mean, in all material respects, the amount, level, frequency, functionality and quality (including the level of care exercised in the performance) of such service, except as otherwise (A) provided herein, or (B) agreed to by the Parties), as set forth on (together with the Seller Payroll Services and any Omitted Services and Resumed Services provided by Seller, the "").
Schedule 2.1(a)
Seller Services
 
(ii) In the event that Purchaser internally restructures, reorganizes or transfers the PC Business to an Affiliate or a third party, Seller shall continue to provide the Seller Services to such Affiliate or third party to the extent provided prior to such restructuring, reorganization or transfer, but only insofar as such Affiliate or such third party continues to conduct the PC Business.
 
(b) .
Employee Benefits, Payroll Administration and Other HR Services
 
(i) Seller shall, or shall cause its Affiliates or third parties to (A) provide the Purchaser Parties with payroll services, (B) facilitate the operation and implementation of, and provide administration services with respect to, the employee health and welfare benefits plans, retirement plans and other employee benefit plans for the applicable PC/CM Continuing Business Employees and any other employees described on and (C) provide health and welfare benefits, retirement benefits and other employee benefits for applicable PC/CM Continuing Business Employees and any other employees described on during the Benefits Transition Period, in each case, as set forth on (the "") and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth on . Seller will give at least the same priority to rendering the Seller Payroll Services to the Purchaser Parties as Seller gives to providing comparable services to its business units. During the Benefits Transition Period, Seller shall continue to administer and provide coverage pursuant to the health and welfare benefit plans, retirement plans and other employee benefit plans of Seller as provided for on (the "") for the benefit of all applicable PC/CM Continuing Business Employees and any other employees described on , and their eligible dependents and beneficiaries, on substantially the same
Schedule 2.1(b)
Schedule 2.1(b)
Schedule 2.1(b)
Seller Payroll Services
Schedule 2.1(b)
Schedule 2.1(b)
Transition Benefits Plans
Schedule 2.1(b)
 
basis as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date (except as otherwise set forth on ) for such individuals. Except with respect to Seller Parties' gross negligence or willful misconduct or as otherwise provided in the Transaction Agreement, Purchaser shall be liable, and Seller shall have no liability, for all benefits, claims and costs incurred by Seller and/or Purchaser under the Transition Benefits Plans in respect of events occurring during the Benefits Transition Period to the same extent that Purchaser would have been liable for such benefits, claims and costs (including actual benefits, claims and costs associated with continuation of group health plan coverage required under Part 6 of Title I of ERISA ("")) if Purchaser had newly established and was the sole sponsor of the Transition Benefits Plans during such period. Following the Benefits Transition Period, Purchaser shall assume, under Purchaser welfare benefit plans, the COBRA Coverage of all applicable PC/CM Continuing Business Employees still receiving such COBRA Coverage, and the Seller shall no longer administer such plans; , , that Seller shall provide administrative support with respect to any claims incurred prior to the end of the Benefits Transition Period.
Schedule 2.1(b)
COBRA Coverage
provided
however
 
(ii) Seller shall provide Purchaser Parties such personnel data (i) as may be reasonably necessary to assist Purchaser in creating a payroll system and administering health and welfare benefits, retirement benefits and other employee benefits for the applicable PC/CM Continuing Business Employees and any other employees described on and (ii) documents as Purchaser may reasonably request (including requests for any such data for purposes of satisfying or meeting any obligation under a subpoena or other similar legal order).
Schedule 2.1(b)
 
Section 2.2 .
Services to be Provided to Seller
 
(a) .
In General
 
(i) Purchaser shall provide, or shall cause its Affiliates or third parties to provide, to the Seller Parties all services (other than investment advisory services) provided to the Seller's Business in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date to the extent provided prior to the Effective Date (it being understood that with respect to each service, "extent" shall mean, in all material respects, the amount, level, frequency, functionality and quality (including the level of care exercised in the performance) of such service, except as otherwise (A) provided herein, or (B) agreed to by the Parties), as set forth on (together with any Omitted Services and Resumed Services provided by Purchaser, the "" and, together with the Seller Services and the Additional Services, the "").
Schedule 2.2(a)
Purchaser Services
Services
 
(ii) In the event that Seller internally restructures, reorganizes or transfers the business to which the Purchaser Services relate to an Affiliate or a third party, Purchaser shall be obligated to continue to provide the Purchaser Services to such Affiliate or third party to the extent provided prior to
 
such restructuring, reorganization or transfer, but only insofar as such Affiliate or such third party continues to conduct the business to which the Purchaser Services relate.
 
Section 2.3 . If, at any time within one hundred and fifty (150) days following the Effective Date, either Party becomes aware of any service that had been provided prior to the Effective Date that is not included on , or , as applicable, and which the Parties had not specifically agreed to omit from such schedule (each such service, an ""), then upon notice to the other Party, such service will be added to the applicable schedule and become a Seller Service, Seller Payroll Service or Purchaser Service, as applicable. The Party that must resume such Service shall resume provision of such Service as soon as reasonably practicable. The cost of any Omitted Service shall be determined in accordance with Section 4.1.
Omitted Services
Schedule 2.1(a)
Schedule 2.1(b)
Schedule 2.2(a)
Omitted Service
 
Section 2.4 .
Additional Services
 
(a) If either Party desires to receive an additional service (or to expand the scope or lengthen the duration of any Service) that is not an Omitted Service or a Resumed Service, the Service Coordinators shall meet (in person or by telephone) within ten (10) days of the other Party's receipt of a written notice by the Party desiring to receive such additional service to discuss in good faith whether and on what terms and conditions such other Party is willing to provide such additional service (or such expanded scope or lengthened duration of a Service) (each such service, to the extent provided, will be considered an "").
Additional Service
 
(b) The Parties shall mutually agree on the scope, terms, Base Cost and duration of all Additional Services, all of which shall be set forth on , as amended from time to time.
Schedule 2.4
 
Section 2.5 . If after a Service (a) has been terminated in accordance with Section 10.3 by the Party that received such Service or (b) that had been provided prior to the Effective Date was specifically omitted by the Parties from or , as applicable, the applicable receiving Party is unable to provide such service for itself despite using its commercially reasonable efforts to do so, then such receiving Party shall so notify the Party that provided such service, and such providing Party will resume providing such service, if commercially and technologically feasible and subject to such providing Party's ability to obtain any third party consents necessary to provide the service (each, a ""). The Party that received such Service shall be responsible for all costs of the Party that provided such Service associated with resuming such Service, and to the extent reasonably practicable, such providing Party shall provide such receiving Party with advance notice of such expenses.
Resumed Services
Schedule 2.1(a)
Schedule 2.2(a)
Resumed Service
 
Section 2.6 . Seller and Purchaser shall each nominate a representative to act as the primary contact person with respect to the performance of the Services (each, a ""). Unless otherwise agreed upon by the Parties, all communications relating to this Agreement and to the Services provided hereunder shall be directed to the Service Coordinators. The initial Service Coordinators for Purchaser and Seller, including relevant contact information, are set forth on . Either Party may replace
Service Coordinators
Service Coordinator
Schedule 2.6
 
its Service Coordinator at any time by providing notice in accordance with Section 11.3 of this Agreement.
 
Section 2.7 . Each Party shall (and shall cause any party performing services on its behalf to) use commercially reasonable efforts, skill and judgment in providing the Services. Without limiting the foregoing, all Services shall be provided in a timely and workmanlike manner, consistent with recent past practice and to the extent provided prior to the Effective Date.
Standard of Performance
 
Section 2.8 .
Cooperation
 
(a) Each Party shall, and shall cause its respective Affiliates and use commercially reasonable efforts to cause its third party service providers, to reasonably cooperate with the other Party in all matters relating to the provision and receipt of the Services and to minimize the expense, distraction and disturbance to each Party, shall perform all obligations hereunder in good faith and in accordance with principles of fair dealing and shall not engage in any willful or intentional misconduct, gross negligence, common law fraud or otherwise violate any Requirements of Law. Such cooperation shall include (i) the execution and delivery of such further instruments or documents as may be reasonably requested by the other Party to enable the full performance of each Party's obligations hereunder and (ii) notifying the other Party in advance of any changes to a Party's operating environment or Personnel (especially changes with respect to employee status), and working with the other Party to minimize the effect of such changes.
 
(b) Each Party will use commercially reasonable efforts to provide information and documentation necessary for the other Party to perform the Seller Services or the Purchaser Services, as applicable, in the manner they were provided in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date, and will use commercially reasonable efforts to make available, as reasonably requested by the other Party, sufficient resources and timely decisions, approvals and acceptances in order that the other Party may perform its obligations under this Agreement in a timely and efficient manner.
 
(c) The Purchaser Parties and the Seller Parties shall follow, and shall cause their respective Affiliates to follow, the policies, procedures and practices of the other Party and its Affiliates applicable to the Services being provided by or on behalf of such other Party that are in effect as of the Effective Date and of which the applicable Party has been made aware.
 
Section 2.9 .
Separation and/or Segregation
 
(a) Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties in writing, Seller shall bear all costs of any separation and/or segregation activities with respect to the PC Business (i) required under any applicable Requirements of Law as a result of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreement and the Related Agreements or (ii) undertaken upon Seller's own initiative. All separation and/or segregation activities requested by Purchaser shall be treated as requests for Additional Services, and the costs thereof shall be borne by Purchaser.
 
(b) To the extent that Seller has not completed separation and/or segregation of the PC Business' operations and data from Seller's other operations and data prior to the Effective Date, Seller shall complete such separation and/or segregation during the Term or sooner as required by Requirements of Law, with minimal interruption to the PC Business' daily business, provided that such activities shall not be deemed a Service under this Agreement.
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, Section 2.9(a) and Section 2.9(b) shall be limited to separation and/or segregation of the PC/CM Business from the Seller's Business, and Seller shall not be responsible for any separation and/or segregation of the PC Business from the CM Business.
 
Section 2.10 .
Subcontracting
 
(a) . When acting as a Service provider, Seller may subcontract to another provider (including third parties and Seller's own Subsidiaries and Affiliates), or change an existing subcontractor of:
By Seller
 
(i) any Service provided solely to the PC Business with Purchaser's prior written consent (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld).
 
(ii) any other Service upon notice to Purchaser; , that Purchaser shall have a reasonable opportunity to comment on the plan to implement such subcontracting prior to such implementation, and , , that if such change is reasonably likely to have a significant adverse effect on the level and/or quality of a material Service, the plan for implementing such change with respect to such material Service shall be subject to the Purchaser's prior written consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
provided
provided
further
 
(b) . When acting as a Service provider, Purchaser may subcontract to another provider (including third parties and Purchaser's own Subsidiaries and Affiliates), or change an existing subcontractor of:
By Purchaser
 
(i) any Service provided solely to the Seller's Business, with Seller's prior written consent (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld).
 
(ii) any other Service upon notice to Seller; , that Seller shall have a reasonable opportunity to comment on the plan to implement such subcontracting prior to such implementation, and , , that if such change is reasonably likely to have a significant adverse effect on the level and/or quality of a material Service, the plan for implementing such change with respect to such material Service shall be subject to the Seller's prior written consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
provided
provided
further
 
(c) Notwithstanding any subcontracting or change of subcontractors permitted under this Section 2.10, Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, shall always remain
 
responsible for the performance of the Seller Services or Purchaser Services, as applicable, in accordance with the service levels, quality and costs set forth herein.
 
Section 2.11 . Either Party, when acting as a service provider, may change (a) its policies and procedures or (b) the location from which any Service is provided at any time; , that such Party shall always remain responsible for the performance of the Services in accordance with the service levels, quality and costs set forth herein. Such providing Party shall give the other Party reasonable prior notice of the change (which notice shall be provided no later than the time at which, and in the same manner as, such party provides notice of such change to any applicable Affiliates).
Certain Changes
provided
 
 
 
Section 3.1 .
General Limitations
 
(a) Unless expressly provided otherwise herein (i) Seller Parties shall be required to provide the Seller Services hereunder only to the extent that such Seller Services were provided to the PC Business in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date and (ii) the Seller Services provided by Seller hereunder shall be available only for the purposes of conducting the PC Business.
 
(b) Unless expressly provided otherwise herein (i) Purchaser Parties shall be required to provide the Purchaser Services hereunder only to the extent that such Purchaser Services were provided to Seller's Business in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date and (ii) the Purchaser Services provided by Purchaser hereunder shall be available only for the purposes of conducting Seller's Business.
 
(c) In no event shall either Party be obligated to maintain the employment of any specific employee or acquire any specific additional equipment or software, unless the other Party agrees to bear all associated costs; that such Party shall remain responsible for the performance of the Seller Services or Purchaser Services, as applicable, in accordance with this Agreement.
provided
 
Section 3.2 . Each Party acknowledges and agrees that the Services provided by a Party through third parties or using third party Intellectual Property are subject to the terms and conditions of any applicable agreements between the provider of such Service and such third parties. Each Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to (a) obtain any necessary consent from such third parties in order to provide such Services or (b) if any such consent is not obtained, provide acceptable alternative arrangements to provide the relevant Services sufficient for the other Party's purposes. All costs associated with (a) and (b), above, shall be borne by the Party receiving the applicable Service, except that any one time costs incurred in connection with the migration of any Service to an alternative arrangement shall be borne by the Party providing the applicable Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Party providing the applicable Service shall provide reasonable prior notice to the Party receiving the
Third Party Limitations
 
applicable Service of the costs associated with (a) and (b), and the Parties shall cooperate to mitigate such costs (including exploring alternative arrangements, if any).
 
Section 3.3 . Neither Party shall provide, or cause to be provided, any Service to the extent that the provision of such Service would require such Party, any of its Affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents or representatives to violate (a) any applicable Requirements of Law, (b) any policies and/or procedures of such Party designed to respond to a Requirement of Law, to a new legal or regulatory issue or to a security threat or (c) any other policies and/or procedures of such Party in existence on the Effective Date. If a Party cannot provide a Service due to (c), above, the Parties shall cooperate in good faith to identify an acceptable alternative arrangement to provide the affected Service sufficient for the purposes of the other Party; , that the Party providing such Service shall bear any additional costs resulting from such acceptable alternative arrangement.
Compliance with Laws
provided
 
Section 3.4 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, in no event shall the Seller Services include any of the services set forth on .
Excluded Seller Services
Schedule 3.4
 
Section 3.5 .
Force Majeure
 
(a) The Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide, or cause to be provided, the Services without interruption. In the event that any Party providing, or causing to be provided, Services is wholly or partially prevented from, or delayed in, providing one or more Services, or one or more Services are interrupted or suspended, by reason of events beyond its reasonable control (including acts of God, fire, explosion, floods, embargoes, epidemics, war, acts of terrorism, nuclear disaster, labor strikes, civil unrest and/or riots) (each, a ""), such Party shall not be obligated to deliver the affected Services during such period, and the Party that would have received such Services shall not be obligated to pay for any Services not delivered.
Force Majeure Event
 
(b) Upon the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, the affected Party shall promptly give written notice to the other Party of the Force Majeure Event upon which it intends to rely to excuse its performance, and of the expected duration of such Force Majeure Event. The duties and obligations of such Party hereunder shall be tolled for the duration of the Force Majeure Event, but only to the extent that the Force Majeure Event prevents such Party from performing its duties and obligations hereunder.
 
(c) During the duration of a Force Majeure Event, the affected Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to avoid or remove such Force Majeure Event, and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to resume its performance under this Agreement with the least practicable delay. From and during the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, the other Party may replace the affected Services by providing such Services for itself or engaging a third party to provide such Services.
 
(d) For the period beginning sixty (60) days after the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event and ending upon the termination of such Force Majeure Event, the affected
 
Party shall pay or reimburse, as applicable, the difference, if any, between (i) all of the other Party's reasonable costs associated with any replacement Services and (ii) the amount the other Party would have paid to such Party under the terms of this Agreement for the provision of such Services had such Party continued to perform such Services.
 
Section 3.6 . No Party shall be required to provide disaster recovery Services to the extent that the Party that would receive such Services has materially altered the equipment, hardware or software to which such disaster recovery Services pertain.
Disaster Recovery Services
 
Section 3.7 . Each Party acknowledges that the purpose of this Agreement is to provide Services to the other Party on an interim basis, until such Party can perform the Services for itself. Accordingly, at all times from and after the Effective Date, each of Seller and Purchaser shall use its respective commercially reasonable efforts to make or obtain any approvals, permits or licenses, implement any computer systems and take, or cause to be taken, any and all other actions necessary or advisable for it to provide the Services for itself as soon as reasonably practicable.
Interim Basis Only
 
Section 3.8 . In providing the Services, no Party shall take any action that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the assets or business of the other Party or any of its Affiliates, or on the ability of the other Party to comply with its obligations under this Agreement, without obtaining such other Party's prior written consent.
No Adverse Effect
 
Section 3.9 .
Non Performance
 
(a) . If Seller fails to timely provide, or cause to be provided, one or more Seller Services, other than as a result of and during the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, and such failure prevents Purchaser from operating the PC Business as it was operated in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date, from and during such failure to provide such Seller Services, Purchaser, after providing prior written notice to Seller, may replace the affected Seller Services by providing such Seller Services for itself or engaging a third party to provide such Seller Services. In addition to any other remedies that Purchaser may be entitled to, Seller shall also pay Purchaser the difference, if any, between (i) all of Purchaser's reasonable costs associated with such replacement Seller Services and (ii) the amount Purchaser would have paid to Seller under the terms of this Agreement for the provision of such Seller Services, had Seller Parties continued to perform such Seller Services.
By Seller
 
(b) . If Purchaser fails to timely provide, or cause to be provided, one or more Purchaser Services, other than as a result of and during the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, and such failure prevents Seller from operating the Seller's Business as it was operated in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date, from and during such failure to provide such Purchaser Services, Seller, after providing prior written notice to Purchaser, may replace the affected Purchaser Services by providing such Purchaser Services for itself or engaging a third party to provide such Purchaser Services. In addition to any other remedies that Seller may be entitled to, Purchaser shall also pay Seller the difference, if any, between (i) all of Seller's reasonable costs associated with such replacement Purchaser Services and (ii) the
By Purchaser
 
amount Seller would have paid to Purchaser under the terms of this Agreement for the provision of such Purchaser Services, had Purchaser Parties continued to perform such Purchaser Services.
 
 
 
Section 4.1 .
Base Term Fees
 
(a) In consideration for the Seller Services and any Additional Services provided by Seller hereunder, Purchaser shall pay to Seller all Direct Costs of Seller Parties in connection with providing each Seller Service that are currently charged to the PC Business (with respect to each Seller Service, the ""), the Base Cost of each Additional Service and any reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by Seller Parties in connection with providing the Seller Service or Additional Service, as applicable (collectively, the ""). The current Base Cost of each Seller Service is set forth on or , as applicable. The Base Cost for each Additional Service shall be determined on a case by case basis as mutually agreed to by the Parties under Section 2.4(b).
Base Cost
Seller Fees
Schedule 2.1(a)
Schedule 2.1(b)
 
(b) In consideration for the Purchaser Services and any Additional Services provided by Purchaser hereunder, Seller shall pay to Purchaser all Direct Costs of Purchaser Parties in connection with providing each Purchaser Service that are currently charged by the PC Business (with respect to each Purchaser Service, the ""), the Base Cost of each Additional Service and any reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by Purchaser Parties in connection with providing the Purchaser Service or Additional Service, as applicable (collectively, the "" and, together with the Seller Fees, the ""). The current Base Cost of each Purchaser Service is set forth on . The Base Cost for each Additional Service shall be determined on a case by case basis as mutually agreed to by the Parties under Section 2.4(b).
Base Cost
Purchaser Fees
Fees
Schedule 2.2(a)
 
Section 4.2 . Upon the commencement of the Extension Term, and at the beginning of each quarter year thereafter, the Base Cost of each Service being provided during the Extension Term shall increase by 2.5% of such Service's then current Base Cost.
Extension Term Fees
 
Section 4.3 .
Adjustments to Base Cost
 
(a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, in the event that the Direct Costs of Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, to provide a Service increase or decrease (including as a result of increases in volume under any contract), Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, may adjust the Base Cost of providing such Service by the amount of such increase or decrease, in connection with and only to the extent that such adjustment is generally applicable to all recipients of such Service, including similar services provided to Affiliates of the Party providing the Service.
Increases or Decreases in Direct Costs
 
(b) . The Parties shall meet (in person or via telephone) on a monthly basis to review the Services provided during the previous month. At each such meeting, the Parties shall adjust the applicable Base Cost for each Service for which
Adjustment Mechanism
 
the Base Cost is determined by reference to the number of units used during a given month. Such adjustment shall be based on the number of units of each such Service added or reduced, as applicable, during the preceding month multiplied by the unit cost of each such Service, plus a proportional adjustment in the Base Cost of any associated Service. All adjustments to the Base Cost of a Service pursuant to this Section 4.3(b) shall be subject to the terms and conditions of any third party contract used to provide such Service.
 
Section 4.4 .
Billing and Payment Terms
 
(a) For each country in which a party provides Services to a recipient located in the same country: (i) such providing party shall invoice the party receiving such Services on a monthly basis (such invoice to set forth a description of the Services provided and reasonable documentation to support the charges thereon) for all Services that such providing party delivered during the preceding month, denominated in the local currency of such country, (ii) each such invoice shall be payable within sixty (60) days after such receiving party's receipt of the invoice and (iii) payment of such invoices shall be made by such receiving party to such providing party in the local currency of the applicable country. Any Service for which the foregoing process does not apply shall be invoiced by the Party providing such Service to the Party receiving such Service in accordance with the foregoing timetable and in U.S. Dollars, and shall be paid by the Party receiving such Services in accordance with the foregoing timetable and in U.S. Dollars.
 
(b) If any undisputed invoice or undisputed portion of an invoice is not paid in full within sixty (60) days after the date of the invoice, interest shall accrue on the unpaid amount at the annual rate equal to the "Prime Rate" as reported on the thirtieth day after the date of the invoice in (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day immediately after such day), calculated on the basis of a year of three hundred sixty (360) days and the actual number of days elapsed between the end of the sixty (60) day period and the actual payment date.
The Wall Street Journal
 
(c) A Party may dispute any or all charges for ninety (90) days after the receipt of the applicable invoice. If a Party disputes any charges, the Parties shall work together in good faith to resolve such dispute in accordance with Section 11.15. If the resolution of such a dispute is that a Party owes an amount of money to the other Party, the Party that owes money shall add a credit of such owed amount to the next invoice that such Party prepares as a Service provider, , that if no further such invoices are due, the Party owing such amount shall pay it to the other Party within sixty (60) days following resolution of the dispute. A failure by a Party to dispute a charge within ninety (90) days after receipt of invoice shall not waive such Party's audit and collection rights under Section 5.5.
provided
 
(d) The Parties acknowledge that there may be a lag in the submission of charges from third parties relating to the provision of Services, and that the Party providing Services through such third parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such third party invoices, and to provide same to the other Party, in a timely fashion.
 
(e) The existence of a dispute pursuant to Section 4.4(c) above shall not excuse either Party from any other obligation under this Agreement, including each Party's obligations to continue to provide Services hereunder.
 
Section 4.5 . All consideration under this Agreement, is exclusive of any sales, transfer, value added, goods or services tax or similar gross receipts based tax (including any such taxes that are required to be withheld, but excluding all other taxes including taxes based upon or calculated by reference to income, receipts or capital) imposed against or on services provided ("") by a Party providing Services hereunder and such Sales Taxes will be added to the consideration where applicable. Such Sales Taxes shall be separately stated on the relevant invoice to the Party receiving Services hereunder. All taxable goods and services for which a Party receiving Services hereunder is compensating, or reimbursing, a Party providing Services hereunder shall be set out separately from non taxable goods and services, if practicable. The Party receiving Services hereunder shall be responsible for any such Sales Taxes and shall either (i) remit such Sales Taxes to the Party providing Services hereunder (and such providing Party shall remit the such amounts to the applicable taxing authority) or (ii) provide such providing Party with a certificate or other acceptable proof evidencing an exemption from liability for such Sales Taxes. In the event the Party providing Services hereunder fails timely to invoice Sales Taxes on taxable goods or services covered by this Agreement, such providing Party shall notify the Party receiving Services hereunder in a timely manner and such receiving Party shall remit such Sales Taxes to such providing Party, , , that such receiving Party shall not be responsible for the payment of any additions to such Sales Taxes, including penalties and interest imposed due to a failure by such providing Party to remit or cause to be remitted such Sales Taxes in a timely manner to the appropriate taxing authority, unless such failure relates to the failure of the such receiving Party to pay to such providing Party the amount of the Sales Taxes properly invoiced in accordance with the terms herein.
Sales Taxes
Sales Taxes
provided
however
 
Section 4.6 . In no event shall a Party offset any amounts due hereunder for its receipt of Services by amounts owed to it hereunder for its provision of Services.
Offset
 
 
 
Section 5.1 .
Access; Work Policy
 
(a) At all times during the Term, each Party shall provide, and shall cause its Affiliates and third parties to provide, the other Party and its Personnel reasonable ingress to and egress from its facilities and premises, and reasonable access to its equipment and Personnel, for any purpose connected with the delivery or receipt of Services hereunder, the exercise of any right under this Agreement or the performance of any obligations required by this Agreement.
 
(b) Each Party's Personnel shall comply with the other Party's safety and security regulations applicable to each specific site or facility while working at such site or facility. Except as otherwise agreed to by the Parties, each Party's Personnel shall observe the
 
working hours, working rules, and holiday schedules of the other Party while working on the premises of the other Party.
 
Section 5.2 .
Security Level; Additional Security Measures
 
(a) Seller Parties and Purchaser Parties shall work together to ensure that, when providing Services, they are each able to maintain their current level (or, if greater, an industry standard level) of physical and electronic security during the Term (including data security and data privacy), and to address any new security related issues, including compliance with Requirements of Law related to security and issues related to new technologies or threats.
 
(b) Any Party providing Services may take physical or information security measures that affect the manner in which Services are provided, so long as the substance or overall functionality of any affected Services remains the same as it was prior to the Effective Date; , that the Party receiving such Services shall be given reasonable, prior notice of any such physical or information security measures that are material.
provided
 
Section 5.3 . In the event of a security breach that relates to the Services, Seller Parties and Purchaser Parties shall, subject to any applicable Requirements of Law, cooperate with each other regarding the timing and manner of (a) notification to their respective customers, potential customers, employees and/or agents concerning a breach or potential breach of security and (b) disclosures to appropriate Governmental Authorities.
Security Breaches
 
Section 5.4 .
Systems Security
 
(a) If any Seller Party or Purchaser Party, or its Personnel, will be given access to any Seller Party's or Purchaser Party's, as applicable, computer systems or software ("") in connection with the performance of the Services, the accessing party or its Personnel, as the case may be, shall comply with all of such other Party's system security policies, procedures and requirements (as amended from time to time, the ""), and will not tamper with, compromise or circumvent any security or audit measures employed by such other Party.
Systems
Security Regulations
 
(b) Each Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that only those of its Personnel who are specifically authorized to have access to the Systems of the other Party gain such access, and to prevent unauthorized access, use, destruction, alteration or loss of information contained therein, including notifying its Personnel regarding the restrictions set forth in this Agreement and establishing appropriate policies designed to effectively enforce such restrictions.
 
(c) If, at any time, either Party determines that the other Party or its Personnel has sought to circumvent, or has circumvented, its Security Regulations, that any unauthorized Personnel of the other Party has accessed its Systems or that the other Party or any of its Personnel has engaged in activities that may lead to the unauthorized access, use, destruction, alteration or loss of data, information or software, such Party shall immediately terminate any such Personnel's access to the Systems and immediately notify the other Party.
 
(d) Seller Parties, Purchaser Parties and their respective Personnel, shall access and use only those Systems, and only such data and information within such Systems to which it has been granted the right to access and use. Any Party shall have the right to deny the Personnel of the other Party access to such Party's Systems, after prior written notice, in the event the Party reasonably believes that such Personnel pose a security concern.
 
(e) A material failure to comply with the Security Regulations shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement. All user identification numbers and passwords of a Party disclosed to the other Party, and any information obtained from the use of such disclosing Party's Systems, shall be deemed Seller Confidential Information or Purchaser Confidential Information, as applicable, of the disclosing Party.
 
(f) Each Party will cooperate with the other Party in investigating any apparent unauthorized access to a Party's Systems or any apparent unauthorized release by a Party or such Party's Personnel of Seller Confidential Information or Purchaser Confidential Information, as applicable. Each Party will (i) immediately notify the other Party if such Party has revoked access to its own Systems to any of its Personnel if such Personnel also has access to the other Party's Systems and (ii) will immediately revoke any access to the other Party's Systems once such Personnel no longer has a need to access the other Party's Systems.
 
Section 5.5 .
Records; Inspection and Audit Rights
 
(a) During the Term and for seven years thereafter, each Party agrees to maintain accurate records arising from or related to any Service provided hereunder, including accounting records and documentation produced in connection with the provision of any Service; , that each Party shall maintain such records for any longer duration required by any Requirement of Law that is applicable to the other Party and of which such Party has reasonable prior notice.
provided
 
(b) Upon reasonable written notice from the Party receiving a Service, the Party providing such Service shall make available to such receiving Party or its Representatives (at such receiving Party's sole expense) reasonable access to or, at the providing Party's option and expense, copies of, the records with respect to such Service during regular business hours. Such records shall include documents relating to the amounts charged by the Party providing the Service, and the Party receiving the Service shall have the right to review and audit such records to verify such amounts. In the event of any discrepancies or disputes between the amounts charged by a Party and such Party's records, the Parties shall work together to resolve such dispute in accordance with Section 11.15. If the resolution of such a dispute is that a Party owes money to the other Party, the Party to which money is owed shall add the amount owed to the next invoice that such Party prepares as a service provider; , that if no further invoices are due, the Party owing such amount shall pay it to the other Party within sixty (60) days following resolution of the dispute).
provided
 
Section 5.6 .
Risks and Controls
 
(a) sets forth the risks relating to the Services for which Seller shall periodically (but no less than annually) demonstrate to Purchaser the existence
Schedule 5.6(a)
 
of adequate controls, by providing standard test results for such controls (as agreed to between the Parties) to Purchaser for its evaluation.
 
(b) sets forth the risks relating to the Services for which Purchaser shall periodically (but no less than annually) demonstrate to Seller the existence of adequate controls, by providing standard test results for such controls (as agreed to between the Parties) to Seller for its evaluation.
Schedule 5.6(b)
 
Section 5.7 . Each Party providing a Service shall permit the auditors (including Governmental Authorities) of the recipient of such Service charged with evaluating the Service recipient's compliance with Requirements of Law reasonable access to the providing Party's relevant documentation, facilities and personnel, as applicable, for purposes of auditing such Services for compliance with Requirements of Law.
Legal and Regulatory Audit Rights
 
Section 5.8 . In the event that (a) a Party cannot demonstrate the existence of adequate controls under Section 5.6(a) or Section 5.6(b), as applicable, or (b) an audit under Section 5.7 identifies noncompliance with a Requirement of Law, the Party providing the applicable Service shall remedy such lack of controls or noncompliance, as applicable, in a commercially reasonable time and manner.
Duty to Remedy
 
 
 
Section 6.1 . As used in this Agreement, Seller Confidential Information and Purchaser Confidential Information are defined as follows:
Confidential Information
 
(a) "" means all information (whether in written, electronic or oral form) disclosed by Seller Parties to Purchaser Parties under the terms and for purposes of this Agreement (including information disclosed in the course of negotiation of this Agreement and the terms of this Agreement) that is not generally known to the public, except for:
Seller Confidential Information
 
(i) information that is or becomes publicly available (other than through disclosure by Purchaser Parties or their Affiliates), from and after the date of public availability;
 
(ii) information disclosed to Purchaser Parties by a third party not known to be bound by any confidentiality agreement with Seller Parties; , that (A) under the circumstances of disclosure, Purchaser Parties do not owe a duty of non disclosure to such third party, (B) to the knowledge of Purchaser Parties, the third party's disclosure does not violate a duty of non disclosure owed to another Person, including any Seller Party and (C) the disclosure by the third party is not otherwise unlawful;
provided
 
(iii) information developed by Purchaser Parties independent of any Seller Confidential Information; or
 
(iv) information that is rightfully in the possession of Purchaser Parties and not subject to any duty of confidentiality as of the Effective Date.
 
(b) "" means all information (whether in written, electronic or oral form) disclosed by Purchaser Parties to Seller Parties under the terms and for purposes of this Agreement (including information disclosed in the course of negotiation of this Agreement and the terms of this Agreement) that is not generally known to the public, except for:
Purchaser Confidential Information
 
(i) information that is or becomes publicly available (other than through disclosure by Seller Parties or its Affiliates), from and after the date of public availability;
 
(ii) information disclosed to Seller Parties by a third party not known to be bound by any confidentiality agreement with Purchaser Parties; provided, that (A) under the circumstances of disclosure, Seller Parties do not owe a duty of non disclosure to such third party, (B) to the knowledge of Seller Parties, the third party's disclosure does not violate a duty of non disclosure owed to another Person, including any Purchaser Party and (C) the disclosure by the third party is not otherwise unlawful;
 
(iii) information developed by Seller Parties independent of any Purchaser Confidential Information; or
 
(iv) information that is rightfully in the possession of Seller Parties and not subject to any duty of confidentiality as of the Effective Date; , , that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, all confidential information relating to the PC Business that is owned by Purchaser as a result of the Transaction Agreement shall be deemed Purchaser Confidential Information even if such information was rightfully in the possession of Seller Parties as of the Effective Date.
provided
however
 
(c) Each of the Seller Parties and the Purchaser Parties shall not, and shall cause its respective Affiliates and each of its and its Affiliates' directors, partners, personnel, accountants, counsel and other professional advisers ("") not to, disclose to any other person or use, except for purposes of this Agreement (and only in accordance with applicable Requirements of Law), any information that is Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, respectively, , , that Seller and Purchaser may disclose Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, respectively, to the extent permitted by any Requirements of Law (i) to its Representatives on a need to know basis in connection with the performance of such Party's obligations under this Agreement, (ii) in any report, statement, testimony or other submission to any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the such Party or (iii) in order to comply with any Requirements of Law applicable to such Party, or in response to any summons, subpoena or other legal process or formal or informal investigative demand issued to such Party in the course of any litigation, investigation or administrative proceeding.
Representatives
provided
however
 
(d) In the event that Seller, Purchaser, or any of either Party's Representatives, becomes legally compelled by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or similar judicial or administrative process to disclose any Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, respectively, such disclosing Party shall provide the other Party with prompt prior written notice of such requirement, and, to the extent reasonably practicable, cooperate with the other Party (at such other Party's expense) to obtain a protective order or similar remedy to cause Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be, not to be disclosed, including interposing all available objections thereto, such as objections based on settlement privilege. In the event that such protective order or other similar remedy is not obtained, the disclosing Party shall furnish only that portion of Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be, that has been legally compelled, and shall exercise commercially reasonable efforts to obtain assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded such disclosed Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be.
 
(e) Each Party shall, and shall cause its Representatives to, protect Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be, by using the same degree of care, but no less than a reasonable degree of care, to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of such as the Party uses to protect its own confidential information of a like nature.
 
(f) Each Party shall cause its Representatives to agree to be bound by the same restrictions on use and disclosure of Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be, as bind the Party under this Agreement in advance of the disclosure of any such Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information to them.
 
 
 
Section 7.1
Ownership of Data and Intellectual Property
.
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) all data created pursuant to a Service and on behalf of the Party receiving such Service, shall be owned by such receiving Party, and (ii) all systems, technology and Intellectual Property owned by Purchaser as a result of the Transaction Agreement shall continue to be owned by Purchaser, even if such systems, technology and Intellectual Property are serviced by Seller.
 
(b) Seller shall be the sole and exclusive owner of all source code and other Intellectual Property it creates (or, subject to the terms of any applicable third party contracts, has created on its behalf) pursuant to its performance under this Agreement, and, pursuant to the Cross-License Agreement, shall grant Purchaser a perpetual license to use the foregoing in the PC Business; , that the foregoing perpetual license shall not apply to Trademarks, with respect to which Purchaser shall not receive any perpetual license or other perpetual use rights.
provided
 
(c) Purchaser shall be the sole and exclusive owner of all data, source code and other Intellectual Property it creates (or, subject to the terms of any applicable third party contracts, has created on its behalf) pursuant to its performance under this Agreement, and, pursuant to the Cross-License Agreement, shall grant Seller a perpetual license to use the foregoing in Seller's Business; , that the foregoing perpetual license shall not apply to Trademarks, with respect to which Seller shall not receive any perpetual license or other perpetual use rights.
provided
 
(d) To the extent that Seller and Purchaser jointly create Intellectual Property hereunder, such Intellectual Property shall be owned jointly by Seller and Purchaser (with no right of accounting); provided, that no Trademarks shall be jointly owned; and , , that if such Intellectual Property is derived from or otherwise based upon a Party's Intellectual Property, only the newly created derivative Intellectual Property shall be jointly owned, and such joint ownership shall not affect the ownership of the underlying Intellectual Property. If the Parties collaborate to create any Trademarks (i) that are derived from or based upon a Party's Intellectual Property, such Trademarks shall be owned by such Party and (ii) that are not derived from or based upon a Party's Intellectual Property, the Parties shall agree in writing before such creation which party shall own such Trademarks, and the other Party's rights therein.
provided
further
 
Section 7.2 . To the extent reasonably required by a Party providing Services, each Party shall cause the Seller Parties or Purchaser Parties, as applicable, that receive Services hereunder to execute a written agreement with such Party, sufficient to comply with any applicable Requirements of Law relating to data protection.
Data Protection
 
 
 
Section 8.1 . EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTION AGREEMENT, NEITHER PARTY MAKES, AND EACH PARTY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS, ANY AND ALL REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, WITH RESPECT TO THE SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO MERCHANTABILITY, OR SUITABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON INFRINGEMENT OF ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER AND ANY WARRANTIES ARISING FROM COURSE OF DEALING, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE OR TRADE USAGE. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT IS INTENDED TO LIMIT ANY RIGHTS OR REMEDIES OF EITHER PARTY UNDER THE TRANSACTION AGREEMENT.
Disclaimer of Representations and Warranties
 
 
 
Section 9.1 . Subject to the terms of this ARTICLE IX, from and after the Effective Date, Seller shall indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless Purchaser and its Affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, successors and assigns (collectively, the ""), from and against any and all Losses (including such fees and expenses related to the enforcement of this Agreement), to the extent resulting from or arising out of any action, suit, proceedings, claim, demand, investigation or assessment made or brought by a third party that is unaffiliated with the Indemnified Party (each, a "") to the extent arising from or related to (a) any Seller Party's breach of this Agreement or (b) infringement or misappropriation by the Services and materials provided by a Seller Party under this Agreement of such third party's (i) patents, so long as such Seller Party had knowledge of such infringement as of the Effective Date or (ii) copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets.
Indemnification of Purchaser
Purchaser Indemnified Parties
Third Party Claim
 
Section 9.2 . Subject to the terms of this ARTICLE IX, from and after the Effective Date, Purchaser shall indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless Seller and its Affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, successors and assigns (collectively, the "" and, together with the Purchaser Indemnified Parties, the ""), from and against any and all any and all Losses (including such fees and expenses related to the enforcement of this Agreement), to the extent resulting from or arising out of any Third Party Claim to the extent arising from or related to (a) any Purchaser Party's breach of this Agreement or (b) infringement or misappropriation by the Services and materials provided by a Purchaser Party under this Agreement of such third party's (i) patents, so long as such Purchaser Party had knowledge of such infringement as of the Effective Date or (ii) copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets.
Indemnification of Seller
Seller Indemnified Parties
Indemnified Parties
 
Section 9.3 .
Claims
 
(a) Upon receipt by an Indemnified Party of notice of a Third Party Claim with respect to a matter for which such Indemnified Party is indemnified under this ARTICLE IX which has given, or is reasonably expected to give, rise to a claim for Losses, the Indemnified Party shall as soon as practicable, in the case of a Purchaser Indemnified Party, notify Seller, and, in the case of a Seller Indemnified Party, notify Purchaser (Seller or Purchaser, as the case may be, the ""), in writing, indicating the nature of such Third Party Claim and the basis therefor; , , that any delay or failure by the Indemnified Party to give notice to the Indemnifying Party shall relieve the Indemnifying Party of its obligations hereunder only to the extent, if at all, that it is prejudiced by reason of such delay or failure. Such written notice requirement shall be satisfied by promptly transmitting the statement of claim, complaint, regulatory correspondence or other document triggering the indemnification to the Indemnifying Party along with a cover letter stating briefly why the Indemnified Party believes the claim is subject to indemnification. Such notice shall be sent by facsimile or overnight delivery service in accordance with Section 11.3.
Indemnifying Party
provided
however
 
(b) The Indemnifying Party shall have ten (10) Business Days after receipt of notice to elect, at its option, to assume and control the defense of, at its own expense and by its own counsel, any such Third Party Claim, and shall be entitled to assert any and all defenses available to the Indemnified Party to the fullest extent permitted under Requirements of Law.
 
(c) If the Indemnifying Party shall undertake to compromise any such Third Party Claim, it shall promptly, but in any event within ten (10) Business Days of the receipt of notice from the Indemnified Party of such Third Party Claim, notify the Indemnified Party of its intention to do so, and the Indemnified Party agrees to cooperate fully with the Indemnifying Party and its counsel in the compromise of, or defense against, any such Third Party Claim; , , that the Indemnifying Party shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect to, any such Third Party Claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) unless the relief consists solely of money Losses to be paid by the Indemnifying Party and includes a provision whereby the plaintiff or claimant in the matter releases the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or Seller Indemnified Parties, as applicable, from all liability with respect thereto.
provided
however
 
(d) Notwithstanding an election to assume the defense of any action or proceeding, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in the defense of such action or proceeding, and the Indemnifying Party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if the (i) Indemnified Party shall have determined in good faith that an actual or potential conflict of interest makes representation by the same counsel or the counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party inappropriate or (ii) Indemnifying Party shall have authorized the Indemnified Party to employ separate counsel at the Indemnifying Party's expense.
 
(e) In any event, the Indemnified Party and Indemnifying Party and their counsel shall cooperate in the defense of any Third Party Claim subject to this ARTICLE IX, keep such Persons informed of all developments relating to any such Third Party Claims and provide copies of all relevant correspondence and documentation relating thereto. All costs and expenses incurred in connection with the Indemnified Party's cooperation shall be borne by the Indemnifying Party. In any event, the Indemnified Party shall have the right at its own expense to participate in the defense of such asserted liability.
 
(f) If the Indemnifying Party receiving such notice of a Third Party Claim does not elect to defend such Third Party Claim pursuant to Section 9.3(b), or does not defend such Third Party Claim in good faith, the Indemnified Party shall have the right, in addition to any other right or remedy it may have hereunder, at the Indemnifying Party's expense, to defend such Third Party Claim; , , that the Indemnified Party shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect to, any such Third Party Claim without the written consent of the Indemnifying Party (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
provided
however
 
Section 9.4 . Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement to the contrary:
Limitations
 
(a) Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, shall not be liable for any amounts for which the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or the Seller Indemnified Parties, as applicable, are otherwise entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 9.1 or Section 9.2, as applicable, unless the amount of Losses with respect to the particular act, circumstance, development, event, fact, occurrence or omission giving rise to such Losses exceeds $50,000 and shall be liable only to the extent such Losses exceed $50,000 (aggregating all such Losses arising from the same set of facts or circumstances).
 
(b) Seller's total liability with respect to this Agreement shall not exceed, in the aggregate, two times the aggregate amount of the Seller Fees paid hereunder, except to the extent that any liability arises out of Seller's gross negligence, willful or intentional misconduct, common law fraud or other violation of any Requirements of Law.
 
(c) Purchaser's total liability with respect to this Agreement shall not exceed, in the aggregate, two times the aggregate amount of the Seller Fees paid hereunder, except to the extent that any liability arises out of Purchaser's gross negligence, willful or intentional misconduct, common law fraud or other violation of any Requirements of Law.
 
Section 9.5 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, in no event shall any Indemnifying Party be obligated under this ARTICLE IX to indemnify an Indemnified Party otherwise entitled to indemnity hereunder in respect of any Losses to the extent that such Losses result from (a) the Indemnified Party's willful or intentional misconduct or negligence, (b) the Indemnified Party's failure to perform its obligations under this Agreement, or (c) the Indemnified Party's violation of Requirements of Law, (d) acts of the Indemnified Party that are outside of the ordinary course of business, other than reasonable acts taken pursuant to Section 9.9 hereunder unless (i) taken at the Indemnifying Party's written request and direction or (ii) approved in advance in writing by the Indemnifying Party, or (e) acts taken by the Indemnifying Party pursuant to the Indemnified Party's specific (x) written request and direction, that no schedule to this Agreement shall constitute such a request or (y) oral request and direction, so long as such oral request or direction was made, and the acts taken in response to such oral request or direction were taken, in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice between the Parties; , that in the case of (x) or (y), such acts taken by the Indemnifying Party were in compliance with the sections of this Agreement set forth on , as applicable, unless non-compliance was specified by, or reasonably foreseeable in the fulfillment of, the request or direction of the Indemnified Party. Nothing in this Section 9.5 shall affect either Party's obligations under Section 9.9 hereunder.
Exclusions
provided
provided
Schedule 9.5(e)
 
Section 9.6 .
Payments
 
(a) Amounts payable by the Indemnifying Party to the Indemnified Party in respect of any Losses for which such Party is entitled to indemnification hereunder ("") and to which the limitations set forth in Section 9.4 do not apply shall be paid in immediately available funds within ten (10) Business Days after the later of (i) the receipt of a written request from the Indemnified Party entitled to such Indemnity Payment and (ii) the date of payment of the amount that is the subject of the Indemnity Payment by the Party entitled to receive the Indemnity Payment, except to the extent contested by the Indemnifying
Indemnity Payments
 
Party. All such Indemnity Payments shall be made to the designated account of, and in the manner specified in writing by, the Party entitled to such Indemnity Payments.
 
(b) With respect to Indemnity Payments to which the limitations set forth in Section 9.4 do apply, if a Party's Indemnity Payments at any time exceed two times the aggregate amount of the Seller Fees paid hereunder prior to the date on which the indemnification obligation arose, then such Party shall (i) pay to the Indemnified Party two (2) times the aggregate amount of Seller Fees paid hereunder prior to such date and (ii) continue to pay the other Party two times the Seller Fees that such Party receives or pays, as applicable, following such date, until the earlier to occur of the full (A) satisfaction of such liability or (B) termination or expiration of this Agreement.
 
Section 9.7 .
Insurance; Tax Benefits
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, Losses shall be net of any insurance or other prior or subsequent recoveries actually received by the Indemnified Party or its Affiliates in connection with the facts giving rise to the claim for indemnification. If an Indemnified Party shall have used commercially reasonable efforts to recover any amounts recoverable under insurance policies and shall not have recovered the applicable Losses, the Indemnifying Party shall be liable for the amount by which such Losses exceeds the amounts actually recovered.
 
(b) Any indemnity payments made pursuant to this ARTICLE IX by any Indemnifying Party to an Indemnified Party shall be increased to account for any Tax cost incurred by the Indemnified Party upon the receipt of such payment (grossed up for such payment) and shall be made net of any Tax Benefit realized or utilized by the Indemnified Party or any of its Affiliates resulting from the payments of the amounts indemnified against giving rise to such indemnity payments. For purposes of determining the amount of any Tax Benefit or Tax cost incurred, the Indemnified Party shall be deemed to pay Tax at the highest United States federal income tax corporate marginal rate in effect in the year such indemnifiable Loss is incurred and the recipient of the Tax Benefit shall be deemed to realize or utilize any Tax Benefit in the first taxable year that such Tax Benefit may be realized or utilized under Requirements of Law after taking into account all other Tax Attributes of such indemnified party and the projected utilization of such Tax Attributes as computed by the recipient of such Tax Benefit. If a Tax Benefit resulting from the incurrence or payment of Losses is available to any Indemnified Party or its Affiliates in multiple Tax years, the amount of such Tax Benefit for purposes of this Section 9.7(b) shall be the net present value of all of such available Tax Benefits, calculated by using a discount rate equal to the long term applicable federal rate for the month in which such Losses are incurred. The amount of any increase or reduction hereunder shall be adjusted to reflect any final determination (which shall include the execution of Form 870 AD or successor form) with respect to the Indemnified Party's liability for Taxes, and any payments, if necessary, by the Indemnified Party or the Indemnifying Party to reflect such adjustment shall be made if necessary within ten (10) days of such determination.
 
Section 9.8 . The right to indemnification provided in this ARTICLE IX shall be the exclusive remedy (including equitable remedies that involve monetary payment, such as restitution or disgorgement, other than specific performance to enforce any
Remedies Exclusive
 
payment or performance due hereunder) of the Parties from and after the Effective Date in connection with any Third-Party Claims.
 
Section 9.9 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, each Indemnified Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any claim or liability that an Indemnified Party asserts or may assert under this Agreement. In the event that an Indemnified Party shall fail to make such commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any such claim or liability, then notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, neither Seller nor Purchaser, as the case may be, shall be required to indemnify any Indemnified Party for that portion of any Losses that would reasonably be expected to have been avoided if the Indemnified Party had made such efforts.
Mitigation
 
Section 9.10 . The remedies provided in this Agreement shall not be cumulative of any duplicative remedy available pursuant to the Transaction Agreement. Nothing contained in this ARTICLE IX shall limit or alter the obligation of any Party to indemnify any other Party pursuant to ARTICLE X of the Transaction Agreement.
No Double Recovery; No Limitation
 
 
 
Section 10.1 . Except as otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall become effective, and each Service shall commence, on the Effective Date, and this Agreement shall remain in force, and each Service shall continue, for a period of eighteen months thereafter or as otherwise agreed to by the Parties with respect to Additional Services (the ""), unless earlier terminated by the Parties as provided in this ARTICLE X.
Term of Agreement
Base Term
 
Section 10.2 . Not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the Base Term, Purchaser or Seller, as applicable, shall notify the other Party if such Party determines in good faith that it will not be able to complete the transition from, or to replace, one or more Services prior to the expiration of the Base Term for such Services. Provided that such Party has at all times performed its obligations under Section 2.8, the other Party shall continue to provide such Services, and, solely with respect to such Services, to extend the term of this Agreement for up to an additional six months (the "" and, together with the Base Term, the ""); , that such Party shall at all times use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize the duration of any such extension. Notwithstanding the foregoing and unless otherwise agreed to by the Parties with respect to an Additional Service, this Agreement, and any obligation to provide any Services hereunder, shall terminate no later than the date that is twenty four months after the Effective Date.
Extension of Certain Services
Extension Term
Term
provided
 
Section 10.3 .
Termination
 
(a) .
Termination by Seller or Purchaser for Material Breach
 
(i) If a Party materially breaches this Agreement, the other Party may terminate the Services affected by such material breach unless,
 
within thirty (30) days of written notice thereof, such breaching Party (i) cures such material breach to the reasonable satisfaction of the other Party (if such material breach is subject to cure) and (ii) demonstrates, to the other Party's reasonable satisfaction, that such breaching Party has enacted remedial measures designed to prevent the breach from occurring again.
 
(ii) Upon a Party's second material breach of this Agreement with respect to a particular Service where such second material breach is substantially similar to the first material breach with respect to such Service, the other Party may terminate the Services affected by such material breach and, within thirty (30) days of written notice of such material breach, such breaching Party must (i) cure such material breach to the reasonable satisfaction of the other Party (if such material breach is subject to cure) and (ii) demonstrate, to the other Party's sole satisfaction, that such breaching Party has enacted remedial measures designed to prevent the breach from occurring again.
 
(b) . This Agreement, or any Service provided hereunder, as applicable, may be terminated by either Party (the "") upon written notice to the other Party, if:
Other Termination by Seller or Purchaser
Terminating Party
 
(i) the other Party makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or becomes insolvent, or a receiver is appointed for, or a court approves reorganization or arrangement proceedings on, such Party; or
 
(ii) required by any Governmental Entity, upon thirty (30) days' notice or sooner if necessary; , , that prior to any such notice of termination, the Parties mutually agree that this Agreement cannot be amended in a manner that will satisfy such Governmental Entity without materially changing the effect or intent of this Agreement.
provided
however
 
(c) .
Partial Termination
 
(i) Either Party, as a Service recipient, may on thirty (30) days' written notice to the other Party, terminate any Seller Service, Purchaser Service or Additional Service, as applicable. Any such terminated Service shall be deleted from Schedule 2.1(a), Schedule 2.2(a) or Schedule 2.4, as applicable, and the terminating Party shall have no obligation to continue to use or pay for any such Seller Service or Purchaser Service, as applicable; , , that this Agreement shall remain in effect until neither Party requires any Service from the other Party, or until otherwise terminated pursuant to this ARTICLE X.
provided
however
 
(ii) Any termination notice delivered by either Party pursuant to this Section 10.3(c) shall specify in detail the Service or Services to be terminated, and the effective date of such termination.
 
(d) . Once a Party has fully completed its transition from or replacement of a Service it has been receiving hereunder, such receiving Party shall immediately terminate such Service in accordance with Section 10.3(c).
Automatic Termination
 
Section 10.4 . In the event that this Agreement is terminated for any reason:
Effect of Termination
 
(a) Each Party agrees and acknowledges that the obligations of each Party to provide the Services, or to cause the Services to be provided, hereunder shall immediately cease, and any licenses to Seller Facilities and Purchaser Facilities granted hereunder shall immediately terminate. Upon cessation of the applicable Party's obligation to provide any Service, the Party receiving the Service shall stop using, directly or indirectly, such Service.
 
(b) Upon request, each Party shall, and shall cause its Affiliates and third parties (subject to the terms of such Party's agreements with such third parties) retained by such Party or Affiliates to, return to the other Party or destroy (and certify to the destruction of) all tangible personal property and books, records or files owned by such other Party or its Affiliates and third parties and used in connection with the provision of Services that are in their possession as of the termination date.
 
(c) In the event that the Party receiving a Service seeks to discontinue such Service without providing the thirty (30) day notice provided for herein, the Party receiving such Service shall be responsible to the Party providing such Service for reasonable and proper termination charges, including all reasonable cancellation costs, that are actually incurred by the Party providing such Service; , that (i) the Party providing such Service shall use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize all such costs; and (ii) such costs shall be no greater than the amount the Party receiving such Service would have paid for thirty (30) days of such Service had the Party receiving such Service actually received such Service.
provided
 
(d) The following matters shall survive the termination of this Agreement (i) the rights and obligations of each Party under Section 5.5(a), Section 5.5(b), ARTICLE VI, ARTICLE VII, ARTICLE VIII, ARTICLE IX, this Section 10.4 and ARTICLE XI and (ii) the obligations under ARTICLE IV of each Party to pay the applicable Fees for Services furnished prior to the effective date of termination.
 
 
 
Section 11.1 .
Construction
 
(a) For the purposes of this Agreement (i) words (including capitalized terms defined herein) in the singular shall be held to include the plural and vice versa and words (including capitalized terms defined herein) of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the context requires, (ii) all references to the "Agreement" shall include all Exhibits, Schedules and Attachments to this Agreement unless otherwise specified, (iii) the terms "hereof," "herein" and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be
 
construed to refer to this Agreement as a whole (including all of the Exhibits) and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and Article, Section, paragraph and Exhibit references are to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs and Exhibits to this Agreement, unless otherwise specified, (iv) the word "including" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement mean "including without limitation," (v) "commercially reasonable efforts" shall not require a waiver by any Party of any material rights or any action or omission that would be a breach of this Agreement, (vi) all references to any period of days shall be deemed to be to the relevant number of calendar days unless otherwise specified, (vii) all references herein to "$" or dollars shall refer to United States dollars, unless otherwise specified and (viii) all terms defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed herein when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto unless otherwise defined therein.
 
(b) The Parties acknowledge and agree that, to the extent there is a conflict between the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the terms and provisions of any Exhibit (including any Attachment thereto) or Schedule hereto, the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall control.
 
(c) The Parties acknowledge that each Party and its respective counsel have reviewed and revised this Agreement, and that no rule of construction to the effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting Party shall be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement or any amendments hereto.
 
Section 11.2 . The Article and Section headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
 
Section 11.3 . All notices, demands, and other communications required or permitted to be given to any Party under this Agreement shall be in writing and any such notice, demand or other communication shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by hand, courier or overnight delivery service or, if mailed, two Business Days after deposit in the mail, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested and with first class postage prepaid or, in the case of facsimile notice, when sent and transmission is confirmed, and, regardless of method, addressed to the Party at its address or facsimile number set forth below (or at such other address or facsimile number as the Party shall furnish the other parties in accordance with this Section 11.3), with a copy sent in a like manner to the applicable Service Coordinator:
Notices
 
If to Citigroup:
 
Citigroup Inc.
399 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10043
Attn: Andrew Felner
Facsimile: (212) 559 7057
 
If to Legg Mason:
 
Legg Mason, Inc.
100 Light Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21202
Attn: Thomas P. Lemke
  Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Facsimile: (410) 454 4607
 
Section 11.4 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Requirements of Law of the State of New York applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely within such State, without regard to the conflict of laws principles of such State.
Governing Law
 
Section 11.5 .
Jurisdiction; Venue; Consent to Service of Process
 
(a) Each Party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York or, if such court will not accept jurisdiction, the Supreme Court of the State of New York or any court of competent civil jurisdiction sitting in New York County, New York. In any action, suit or other proceeding related to this Agreement, each Party irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to assert by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise any claims that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of the above courts, that such action or suit is brought in an inconvenient forum or that the venue of such action, suit or other proceeding is improper. Each Party also hereby agrees that any final and unappealable judgment against a Party in connection with any action, suit or other proceeding related to this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on such Party and that such award or judgment may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction, either within or outside of the United States. A certified or exemplified copy of such award or judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the fact and amount of such award or judgment.
 
(b) Each Party irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for the giving of notices pursuant to Section 11.3 of this Agreement. Nothing in this Section 11.15 shall affect the right of any Party to serve process in any other manner permitted under Requirements of Law.
 
Section 11.6 . This Agreement, together with all Schedules hereto, the Transaction Agreement (except for Exhibit F-1, Exhibit F-2 and Exhibit F-3 to the Transaction Agreement), the Related Agreements and the Confidentiality Agreement, embody the entire agreement of the Parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements with respect thereto. The Parties intend that this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any judicial proceeding involving this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
 
Section 11.7 . No amendment to this Agreement shall be effective unless it shall be in writing and signed by each Party hereto. Any failure of a Party to comply with any obligation, covenant, agreement or condition contained in
Amendment, Modification and Waiver
 
this Agreement may be waived by the Party entitled to the benefits thereof only by a written instrument duly executed and delivered by the Party granting such waiver, but such waiver or failure to insist upon strict compliance with such obligation, covenant, agreement or condition shall not operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other failure of compliance.
 
Section 11.8 . If any provision of this Agreement, or the application of any such provision, is invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision of this Agreement, or invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. To the extent permitted by applicable Requirements of Law, the Parties waive any provision under Requirements of Law that renders any provision of this Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect. The Parties shall, to the extent lawful and practicable, use commercially reasonable efforts to enter into arrangements to reinstate the intended benefits, net of the intended burdens, of any such provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Severability
 
Section 11.9 . This Agreement and all its provisions shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns. Nothing in this Agreement, whether expressed or implied, will confer on any Person, other than the Parties or their respective permitted successors and assigns, any rights, remedies or liabilities; that the provisions of ARTICLE IX will inure to the benefit of the Indemnified Parties.
Successors and Assigns; No Third Party Beneficiaries
provided
 
Section 11.10 . No Party may assign its rights or obligations under this Agreement, including in the case of a merger or other change of control, without the prior written consent of the other Party (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld). Any purported assignment or transfer in violation of this Section 11.10 shall be void and shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement.
Assignment
 
Section 11.11 . TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, SUIT, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
Section 11.12 . Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, all expenses incurred in connection with the drafting and negotiation of this Agreement shall be paid by the Party incurring such expenses.
Expenses
 
Section 11.13 . This Agreement may be executed by the Parties in multiple counterparts which may be delivered by facsimile transmission. Each counterpart when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, and all such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
Section 11.14 . Each Party and its Affiliates shall be acting as an independent contractor in performing under this Agreement, and shall not be considered or deemed to be an agent, employee, joint venturer or partner of the other Party or
Relationship of the Parties
 
any of its Affiliates. Each Party and its Affiliates shall, at all times, maintain complete control over its Personnel and operations, and shall have sole responsibility for staffing, instructing and compensating its Personnel. Neither Party (nor its Affiliates) shall have, or shall represent that it has, any power, right or authority to bind the other Party (or its Affiliates) to any obligation or liability, to assume or create any obligation or liability or transact any business in the name or on behalf of the other Party (or its Affiliates), or make any promises or representations on behalf of the other Party (or its Affiliates), unless agreed to in writing.
 
Section 11.15 . In the event of any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach, termination or validity thereof, including the dispute of any fees invoiced under ARTICLE IV or any claim by any Party that any other Party has breached the material terms hereof (each, a ""), the Service Coordinators of Seller and Purchaser shall meet (by telephone or in person) no later than two (2) Business Days after receipt of notice by any Party of a request for resolution of a Dispute. The Service Coordinators shall enter into negotiations aimed at resolving any such Dispute. If the Service Coordinators are unable to reach mutually satisfactory resolution of the Dispute within ten (10) Business Days after receipt of notice of the Dispute, the Dispute shall be referred to an executive committee (the "") comprised of at least one member of the senior management of each Party. The initial members of the Executive Committee, including relevant contact information, are set forth on , and either Party may replace its Executive Committee members at any time with other representatives of similar seniority by providing notice in accordance with Section 11.3. The Executive Committee will meet (by telephone or in person) during the next ten (10) Business Days and attempt to resolve the Dispute.
Dispute Resolution
Dispute
Executive Committee
Schedule 11.15
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Party hereto has caused this Agreement to be duly executed on its behalf as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
 
 
 
This (this ""), dated as of December 1, 2005 (the ""), by and between , a Delaware corporation (""), and , a Maryland corporation ("," together with Seller, the "," and each individually a "").
CAPITAL MARKETS TRANSITION SERVICES AGREEMENT
Agreement
Effective Date
CITIGROUP INC.
Purchaser
LEGG MASON, INC.
Seller
Parties
Party
 
 
WHEREAS, Legg Mason and Citigroup have entered into a Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 23, 2005 (as amended, the ""), under which Citigroup is selling to Legg Mason the CAM Business (as defined in the Transaction Agreement) and Legg Mason is selling to Citigroup the PC/CM Business (as defined in the Transaction Agreement); and
Transaction Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing of the Transaction (as defined in the Transaction Agreement).
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, agreements and promises herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
Section 1.1 . Capitalized terms used in this Agreement but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Transaction Agreement. In addition, for the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a).
Additional Service
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this agreement.
Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.
Base Cost
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1.
Base Term
 
"" shall mean the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on December 31, 2005 or such other date as may be agreed to by the Parties.
Benefits Transition Period
 
"" shall mean that certain Capital Markets Cross-License Agreement, dated as of even date herewith, by and between Seller and Purchaser.
CM Cross-License Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
COBRA Coverage
"" shall mean all costs incurred by the party providing a Service in connection with providing such Service.
Direct Cost
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.15.
Dispute
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this Agreement.
Effective Date
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.15.
Executive Committee
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.
Extension Term
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b).
Fees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(a).
Force Majeure Event
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2.
Indemnified Parties
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.3.
Indemnifying Party
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.6.
Indemnity Payments
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3.
Omitted Service
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this Agreement.
Party
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Party providing Services hereunder, the employees, officers, agents, independent contractors and consultants of (a) such Party; (b) the Affiliates of such Party; and (c) any third parties engaged by such Party or its Affiliates to provide the Services.
Personnel
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this Agreement.
Purchaser
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(b).
Purchaser Confidential Information
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b).
Purchaser Fees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2.
Purchaser Indemnified Parties
 
"" shall mean, as applicable, (a) Purchaser, its Affiliates and third parties engaged by Purchaser or its Affiliates to provide Services, when providing Services or (b) Purchaser and its Subsidiaries, when receiving Services.
Purchaser Parties
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a)(i).
Purchaser Services
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(c).
Representatives
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5.
Resumed Service
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.5.
Sales Taxes
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(a).
Security Regulations
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this Agreement.
Seller
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(a).
Seller Confidential Information
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a).
Seller Fees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.3.
Seller Indemnified Parties
 
"" shall mean, as applicable, (a) Seller, its Affiliates and third parties engaged by Seller or its Affiliates to provide Services, when providing Services or (b) Seller and its Subsidiaries, when receiving Services.
Seller Parties
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
Seller Payroll Services
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a)(i).
Seller Services
 
"" shall mean the business of Seller and its Affiliates (other than the PC/CM Business).
Seller's Business
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6.
Service Coordinator
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a)(i).
Services
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(a).
Systems
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.
Term
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.
Third Party Claim
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Transaction Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
Transition Benefits Plans
 
 
 
Section 2.1 .
Services to be Provided to Purchaser
 
(a) .
In General
 
(i) Seller shall provide, or shall cause its Affiliates or third parties to provide, to the Purchaser Parties all services (other than investment advisory services) provided to the CM Business in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date to the extent provided prior to the Effective Date (it being understood that with respect to each service, "extent" shall mean, in all material respects, the amount, level, frequency, functionality and quality (including the level of care exercised in the performance) of such service, except as otherwise (A) provided herein, or (B) agreed to by the Parties), as set forth on (together with the Seller Payroll Services and any Omitted Services and Resumed Services provided by Seller, the "").
Schedule 2.1(a)
Seller Services
 
(ii) In the event that Purchaser internally restructures, reorganizes or transfers the CM Business to an Affiliate or a third party, Seller shall continue to provide the Seller Services to such Affiliate or third party to the extent provided prior to such restructuring, reorganization or transfer, but only insofar as such Affiliate or such third party continues to conduct the CM Business.
 
(b) .
Employee Benefits, Payroll Administration and Other HR Services
 
(i) Seller shall, or shall cause its Affiliates or third parties to (A) provide the Purchaser Parties with payroll services, (B) facilitate the operation and implementation of, and provide administration services with respect to, the employee health and welfare benefits plans, retirement plans and other employee benefit plans for the applicable PC/CM Continuing Business Employees and any other employees described on and (C) provide health and welfare benefits, retirement benefits and other employee benefits for applicable PC/CM Continuing Business Employees and any other employees described on during the Benefits Transition Period, in each case, as set forth on (the "") and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth on . Seller will give at least the same priority to rendering the Seller Payroll Services to the Purchaser Parties as Seller gives to providing comparable services to its business units. During the Benefits Transition Period, Seller shall continue to administer and provide coverage pursuant to the health and welfare benefit plans, retirement plans and other employee benefit plans of Seller as provided for on (the "") for the benefit of all applicable PC/CM Continuing Business Employees and any other employees described on
Schedule 2.1(b)
Schedule 2.1(b)
Schedule 2.1(b)
Seller Payroll Services
Schedule 2.1(b)
Schedule 2.1(b)
Transition Benefits Plans
Schedule
 
, and their eligible dependents and beneficiaries, on substantially the same basis as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date (except as otherwise set forth on ) for such individuals. Except with respect to Seller Parties' gross negligence or willful misconduct or as otherwise provided in the Transaction Agreement, Purchaser shall be liable, and Seller shall have no liability, for all benefits, claims and costs incurred by Seller and/or Purchaser under the Transition Benefits Plans in respect of events occurring during the Benefits Transition Period to the same extent that Purchaser would have been liable for such benefits, claims and costs (including actual benefits, claims and costs associated with continuation of group health plan coverage required under Part 6 of Title I of ERISA ("")) if Purchaser had newly established and was the sole sponsor of the Transition Benefits Plans during such period. Following the Benefits Transition Period, Purchaser shall assume, under Purchaser welfare benefit plans, the COBRA Coverage of all applicable PC/CM Continuing Business Employees still receiving such COBRA Coverage, and the Seller shall no longer administer such plans; , , that Seller shall provide administrative support with respect to any claims incurred prior to the end of the Benefits Transition Period.
2.1(b)
Schedule 2.1(b)
COBRA Coverage
provided
however
 
(ii) Seller shall provide Purchaser Parties such personnel data (i) as may be reasonably necessary to assist Purchaser in creating a payroll system and administering health and welfare benefits, retirement benefits and other employee benefits for the applicable PC/CM Continuing Business Employees and any other employees described on and (ii) documents as Purchaser may reasonably request (including requests for any such data for purposes of satisfying or meeting any obligation under a subpoena or other similar legal order).
Schedule 2.1(b)
 
Section 2.2 .
Services to be Provided to Seller
 
(a) .
In General
 
(i) Purchaser shall provide, or shall cause its Affiliates or third parties to provide, to the Seller Parties all services (other than investment advisory services) provided to the Seller's Business in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date to the extent provided prior to the Effective Date (it being understood that with respect to each service, "extent" shall mean, in all material respects, the amount, level, frequency, functionality and quality (including the level of care exercised in the performance) of such service, except as otherwise (A) provided herein, or (B) agreed to by the Parties), as set forth on (together with any Omitted Services and Resumed Services provided by Purchaser, the "" and, together with the Seller Services and the Additional Services, the "").
Schedule 2.2(a)
Purchaser Services
Services
 
(ii) In the event that Seller internally restructures, reorganizes or transfers the business to which the Purchaser Services relate to an Affiliate or a third party, Purchaser shall be obligated to continue to provide the
 
Purchaser Services to such Affiliate or third party to the extent provided prior to such restructuring, reorganization or transfer, but only insofar as such Affiliate or such third party continues to conduct the business to which the Purchaser Services relate.
 
Section 2.3 . If, at any time within one hundred and fifty (150) days following the Effective Date, either Party becomes aware of any service that had been provided prior to the Effective Date that is not included on , or , as applicable, and which the Parties had not specifically agreed to omit from such schedule (each such service, an ""), then upon notice to the other Party, such service will be added to the applicable schedule and become a Seller Service, Seller Payroll Service or Purchaser Service, as applicable. The Party that must resume such Service shall resume provision of such Service as soon as reasonably practicable. The cost of any Omitted Service shall be determined in accordance with Section 4.1.
Omitted Services
Schedule 2.1(a)
Schedule 2.1(b)
Schedule 2.2(a)
Omitted Service
 
Section 2.4 .
Additional Services
 
(a) If either Party desires to receive an additional service (or to expand the scope or lengthen the duration of any Service) that is not an Omitted Service or a Resumed Service, the Service Coordinators shall meet (in person or by telephone) within ten (10) days of the other Party's receipt of a written notice by the Party desiring to receive such additional service to discuss in good faith whether and on what terms and conditions such other Party is willing to provide such additional service (or such expanded scope or lengthened duration of a Service) (each such service, to the extent provided, will be considered an "").
Additional Service
 
(b) The Parties shall mutually agree on the scope, terms, Base Cost and duration of all Additional Services, all of which shall be set forth on , as amended from time to time.
Schedule 2.4
 
Section 2.5 . If after a Service (a) has been terminated in accordance with Section 10.3 by the Party that received such Service or (b) that had been provided prior to the Effective Date was specifically omitted by the Parties from or , as applicable, the applicable receiving Party is unable to provide such service for itself despite using its commercially reasonable efforts to do so, then such receiving Party shall so notify the Party that provided such service, and such providing Party will resume providing such service, if commercially and technologically feasible and subject to such providing Party's ability to obtain any third party consents necessary to provide the service (each, a ""). The Party that received such Service shall be responsible for all costs of the Party that provided such Service associated with resuming such Service, and to the extent reasonably practicable, such providing Party shall provide such receiving Party with advance notice of such expenses.
Resumed Services
Schedule 2.1(a)
Schedule 2.2(a)
Resumed Service
 
Section 2.6 . Seller and Purchaser shall each nominate a representative to act as the primary contact person with respect to the performance of the Services (each, a ""). Unless otherwise agreed upon by the Parties, all communications relating to this Agreement and to the Services provided hereunder shall be directed to the Service Coordinators. The initial Service Coordinators for Purchaser and Seller,
Service Coordinators
Service Coordinator
 
including relevant contact information, are set forth on . Either Party may replace its Service Coordinator at any time by providing notice in accordance with Section 11.3 of this Agreement.
Schedule 2.6
 
Section 2.7 . Each Party shall (and shall cause any party performing services on its behalf to) use commercially reasonable efforts, skill and judgment in providing the Services. Without limiting the foregoing, all Services shall be provided in a timely and workmanlike manner, consistent with recent past practice and to the extent provided prior to the Effective Date.
Standard of Performance
 
Section 2.8 .
Cooperation
 
(a) Each Party shall, and shall cause its respective Affiliates and use commercially reasonable efforts to cause its third party service providers, to reasonably cooperate with the other Party in all matters relating to the provision and receipt of the Services and to minimize the expense, distraction and disturbance to each Party, shall perform all obligations hereunder in good faith and in accordance with principles of fair dealing and shall not engage in any willful or intentional misconduct, gross negligence, common law fraud or otherwise violate any Requirements of Law. Such cooperation shall include (i) the execution and delivery of such further instruments or documents as may be reasonably requested by the other Party to enable the full performance of each Party's obligations hereunder and (ii) notifying the other Party in advance of any changes to a Party's operating environment or Personnel (especially changes with respect to employee status), and working with the other Party to minimize the effect of such changes.
 
(b) Each Party will use commercially reasonable efforts to provide information and documentation necessary for the other Party to perform the Seller Services or the Purchaser Services, as applicable, in the manner they were provided in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date, and will use commercially reasonable efforts to make available, as reasonably requested by the other Party, sufficient resources and timely decisions, approvals and acceptances in order that the other Party may perform its obligations under this Agreement in a timely and efficient manner.
 
(c) The Purchaser Parties and the Seller Parties shall follow, and shall cause their respective Affiliates to follow, the policies, procedures and practices of the other Party and its Affiliates applicable to the Services being provided by or on behalf of such other Party that are in effect as of the Effective Date and of which the applicable Party has been made aware.
 
Section 2.9 .
Separation and/or Segregation
 
(a) Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties in writing, Seller shall bear all costs of any separation and/or segregation activities with respect to the CM Business (i) required under any applicable Requirements of Law as a result of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreement and the Related Agreements or (ii) undertaken upon Seller's own initiative. All separation and/or segregation activities requested by Purchaser shall be treated as requests for Additional Services, and the costs thereof shall be borne by Purchaser.
 
(b) To the extent that Seller has not completed separation and/or segregation of the CM Business' operations and data from Seller's other operations and data prior to the Effective Date, Seller shall complete such separation and/or segregation during the Term or sooner as required by Requirements of Law, with minimal interruption to the CM Business' daily business, provided that such activities shall not be deemed a Service under this Agreement.
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, Section 2.9(a) and Section 2.9(b) shall be limited to separation and/or segregation of the PC/CM Business from the Seller's Business, and Seller shall not be responsible for any separation and/or segregation of the PC Business from the CM Business.
 
Section 2.10 .
Subcontracting
 
(a) . When acting as a Service provider, Seller may subcontract to another provider (including third parties and Seller's own Subsidiaries and Affiliates), or change an existing subcontractor of:
By Seller
 
(i) any Service provided solely to the CM Business with Purchaser's prior written consent (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld).
 
(ii) any other Service upon notice to Purchaser; , that Purchaser shall have a reasonable opportunity to comment on the plan to implement such subcontracting prior to such implementation, and , , that if such change is reasonably likely to have a significant adverse effect on the level and/or quality of a material Service, the plan for implementing such change with respect to such material Service shall be subject to the Purchaser's prior written consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
provided
provided
further
 
(b) . When acting as a Service provider, Purchaser may subcontract to another provider (including third parties and Purchaser's own Subsidiaries and Affiliates), or change an existing subcontractor of:
By Purchaser
 
(i) any Service provided solely to the Seller's Business, with Seller's prior written consent (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld).
 
(ii) any other Service upon notice to Seller; , that Seller shall have a reasonable opportunity to comment on the plan to implement such subcontracting prior to such implementation, and , , that if such change is reasonably likely to have a significant adverse effect on the level and/or quality of a material Service, the plan for implementing such change with respect to such material Service shall be subject to the Seller's prior written consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
provided
provided
further
 
(c) Notwithstanding any subcontracting or change of subcontractors permitted under this Section 2.10, Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, shall always remain responsible for the performance of the Seller Services or Purchaser Services, as applicable, in accordance with the service levels, quality and costs set forth herein.
 
Section 2.11 . Either Party, when acting as a service provider, may change (a) its policies and procedures or (b) the location from which any Service is provided at any time; , that such Party shall always remain responsible for the performance of the Services in accordance with the service levels, quality and costs set forth herein. Such providing Party shall give the other Party reasonable prior notice of the change (which notice shall be provided no later than the time at which, and in the same manner as, such party provides notice of such change to any applicable Affiliates).
Certain Changes
provided
 
 
 
Section 3.1 .
General Limitations
 
(a) Unless expressly provided otherwise herein (i) Seller Parties shall be required to provide the Seller Services hereunder only to the extent that such Seller Services were provided to the CM Business in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date and (ii) the Seller Services provided by Seller hereunder shall be available only for the purposes of conducting the CM Business.
 
(b) Unless expressly provided otherwise herein (i) Purchaser Parties shall be required to provide the Purchaser Services hereunder only to the extent that such Purchaser Services were provided to Seller's Business in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date and (ii) the Purchaser Services provided by Purchaser hereunder shall be available only for the purposes of conducting Seller's Business.
 
(c) In no event shall either Party be obligated to maintain the employment of any specific employee or acquire any specific additional equipment or software, unless the other Party agrees to bear all associated costs; that such Party shall remain responsible for the performance of the Seller Services or Purchaser Services, as applicable, in accordance with this Agreement.
provided
 
Section 3.2 . Each Party acknowledges and agrees that the Services provided by a Party through third parties or using third party Intellectual Property are subject to the terms and conditions of any applicable agreements between the provider of such Service and such third parties. Each Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to (a) obtain any necessary consent from such third parties in order to provide such Services or (b) if any such consent is not obtained, provide acceptable alternative arrangements to provide the relevant Services sufficient for the other Party's purposes. All costs associated with (a) and (b), above, shall be borne by the Party receiving the applicable Service, except that any one time costs incurred in connection with the migration of any Service to an alternative arrangement shall be borne by the Party providing the applicable Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Party
Third Party Limitations
 
providing the applicable Service shall provide reasonable prior notice to the Party receiving the applicable Service of the costs associated with (a) and (b), and the Parties shall cooperate to mitigate such costs (including exploring alternative arrangements, if any).
 
Section 3.3 . Neither Party shall provide, or cause to be provided, any Service to the extent that the provision of such Service would require such Party, any of its Affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents or representatives to violate (a) any applicable Requirements of Law, (b) any policies and/or procedures of such Party designed to respond to a Requirement of Law, to a new legal or regulatory issue or to a security threat or (c) any other policies and/or procedures of such Party in existence on the Effective Date. If a Party cannot provide a Service due to (c), above, the Parties shall cooperate in good faith to identify an acceptable alternative arrangement to provide the affected Service sufficient for the purposes of the other Party; , that the Party providing such Service shall bear any additional costs resulting from such acceptable alternative arrangement.
Compliance with Laws
provided
 
Section 3.4 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, in no event shall the Seller Services include any of the services set forth on .
Excluded Seller Services
Schedule 3.4
 
Section 3.5 .
Force Majeure
 
(a) The Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide, or cause to be provided, the Services without interruption. In the event that any Party providing, or causing to be provided, Services is wholly or partially prevented from, or delayed in, providing one or more Services, or one or more Services are interrupted or suspended, by reason of events beyond its reasonable control (including acts of God, fire, explosion, floods, embargoes, epidemics, war, acts of terrorism, nuclear disaster, labor strikes, civil unrest and/or riots) (each, a ""), such Party shall not be obligated to deliver the affected Services during such period, and the Party that would have received such Services shall not be obligated to pay for any Services not delivered.
Force Majeure Event
 
(b) Upon the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, the affected Party shall promptly give written notice to the other Party of the Force Majeure Event upon which it intends to rely to excuse its performance, and of the expected duration of such Force Majeure Event. The duties and obligations of such Party hereunder shall be tolled for the duration of the Force Majeure Event, but only to the extent that the Force Majeure Event prevents such Party from performing its duties and obligations hereunder.
 
(c) During the duration of a Force Majeure Event, the affected Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to avoid or remove such Force Majeure Event, and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to resume its performance under this Agreement with the least practicable delay. From and during the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, the other Party may replace the affected Services by providing such Services for itself or engaging a third party to provide such Services.
 
(d) For the period beginning sixty (60) days after the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event and ending upon the termination of such Force Majeure Event, the affected Party shall pay or reimburse, as applicable, the difference, if any, between (i) all of the other Party's reasonable costs associated with any replacement Services and (ii) the amount the other Party would have paid to such Party under the terms of this Agreement for the provision of such Services had such Party continued to perform such Services.
 
Section 3.6 . No Party shall be required to provide disaster recovery Services to the extent that the Party that would receive such Services has materially altered the equipment, hardware or software to which such disaster recovery Services pertain.
Disaster Recovery Services
 
Section 3.7 . Each Party acknowledges that the purpose of this Agreement is to provide Services to the other Party on an interim basis, until such Party can perform the Services for itself. Accordingly, at all times from and after the Effective Date, each of Seller and Purchaser shall use its respective commercially reasonable efforts to make or obtain any approvals, permits or licenses, implement any computer systems and take, or cause to be taken, any and all other actions necessary or advisable for it to provide the Services for itself as soon as reasonably practicable.
Interim Basis Only
 
Section 3.8 . In providing the Services, no Party shall take any action that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the assets or business of the other Party or any of its Affiliates, or on the ability of the other Party to comply with its obligations under this Agreement, without obtaining such other Party's prior written consent.
No Adverse Effect
 
Section 3.9 .
Non Performance
 
(a) . If Seller fails to timely provide, or cause to be provided, one or more Seller Services, other than as a result of and during the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, and such failure prevents Purchaser from operating the CM Business as it was operated in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date, from and during such failure to provide such Seller Services, Purchaser, after providing prior written notice to Seller, may replace the affected Seller Services by providing such Seller Services for itself or engaging a third party to provide such Seller Services. In addition to any other remedies that Purchaser may be entitled to, Seller shall also pay Purchaser the difference, if any, between (i) all of Purchaser's reasonable costs associated with such replacement Seller Services and (ii) the amount Purchaser would have paid to Seller under the terms of this Agreement for the provision of such Seller Services, had Seller Parties continued to perform such Seller Services.
By Seller
 
(b) . If Purchaser fails to timely provide, or cause to be provided, one or more Purchaser Services, other than as a result of and during the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, and such failure prevents Seller from operating the Seller's Business as it was operated in the ordinary course prior to the Effective Date, from and during such failure to provide such Purchaser Services, Seller, after providing prior written notice to Purchaser, may replace the affected Purchaser Services by providing such Purchaser Services for itself or engaging a third party to provide such Purchaser Services. In addition to any other remedies that
By Purchaser
 
Seller may be entitled to, Purchaser shall also pay Seller the difference, if any, between (i) all of Seller's reasonable costs associated with such replacement Purchaser Services and (ii) the amount Seller would have paid to Purchaser under the terms of this Agreement for the provision of such Purchaser Services, had Purchaser Parties continued to perform such Purchaser Services.
 
 
 
Section 4.1 .
Base Term Fees
 
(a) In consideration for the Seller Services and any Additional Services provided by Seller hereunder, Purchaser shall pay to Seller all Direct Costs of Seller Parties in connection with providing each Seller Service that are currently charged to the CM Business (with respect to each Seller Service, the ""), the Base Cost of each Additional Service and any reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by Seller Parties in connection with providing the Seller Service or Additional Service, as applicable (collectively, the ""). The current Base Cost of each Seller Service is set forth on or , as applicable. The Base Cost for each Additional Service shall be determined on a case by case basis as mutually agreed to by the Parties under Section 2.4(b).
Base Cost
Seller Fees
Schedule 2.1(a)
Schedule 2.1(b)
 
(b) In consideration for the Purchaser Services and any Additional Services provided by Purchaser hereunder, Seller shall pay to Purchaser all Direct Costs of Purchaser Parties in connection with providing each Purchaser Service that are currently charged by the CM Business (with respect to each Purchaser Service, the ""), the Base Cost of each Additional Service and any reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by Purchaser Parties in connection with providing the Purchaser Service or Additional Service, as applicable (collectively, the "" and, together with the Seller Fees, the ""). The current Base Cost of each Purchaser Service is set forth on . The Base Cost for each Additional Service shall be determined on a case by case basis as mutually agreed to by the Parties under Section 2.4(b).
Base Cost
Purchaser Fees
Fees
Schedule 2.2(a)
 
Section 4.2 . Upon the commencement of the Extension Term, and at the beginning of each quarter year thereafter, the Base Cost of each Service being provided during the Extension Term shall increase by 2.5% of such Service's then current Base Cost.
Extension Term Fees
 
Section 4.3 .
Adjustments to Base Cost
 
(a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, in the event that the Direct Costs of Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, to provide a Service increase or decrease (including as a result of increases in volume under any contract), Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, may adjust the Base Cost of providing such Service by the amount of such increase or decrease, in connection with and only to the extent that such adjustment is generally applicable to all recipients of such Service, including similar services provided to Affiliates of the Party providing the Service.
Increases or Decreases in Direct Costs
 
(b) . The Parties shall meet (in person or via telephone) on a monthly basis to review the Services provided during the previous month. At each such meeting, the Parties shall adjust the applicable Base Cost for each Service for which the Base Cost is determined by reference to the number of units used during a given month. Such adjustment shall be based on the number of units of each such Service added or reduced, as applicable, during the preceding month multiplied by the unit cost of each such Service, plus a proportional adjustment in the Base Cost of any associated Service. All adjustments to the Base Cost of a Service pursuant to this Section 4.3(b) shall be subject to the terms and conditions of any third party contract used to provide such Service.
Adjustment Mechanism
 
Section 4.4 .
Billing and Payment Terms
 
(a) For each country in which a party provides Services to a recipient located in the same country: (i) such providing party shall invoice the party receiving such Services on a monthly basis (such invoice to set forth a description of the Services provided and reasonable documentation to support the charges thereon) for all Services that such providing party delivered during the preceding month, denominated in the local currency of such country, (ii) each such invoice shall be payable within sixty (60) days after such receiving party's receipt of the invoice and (iii) payment of such invoices shall be made by such receiving party to such providing party in the local currency of the applicable country. Any Service for which the foregoing process does not apply shall be invoiced by the Party providing such Service to the Party receiving such Service in accordance with the foregoing timetable and in U.S. Dollars, and shall be paid by the Party receiving such Services in accordance with the foregoing timetable and in U.S. Dollars.
 
(b) If any undisputed invoice or undisputed portion of an invoice is not paid in full within sixty (60) days after the date of the invoice, interest shall accrue on the unpaid amount at the annual rate equal to the "Prime Rate" as reported on the thirtieth day after the date of the invoice in (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day immediately after such day), calculated on the basis of a year of three hundred sixty (360) days and the actual number of days elapsed between the end of the sixty (60) day period and the actual payment date.
The Wall Street Journal
 
(c) A Party may dispute any or all charges for ninety (90) days after the receipt of the applicable invoice. If a Party disputes any charges, the Parties shall work together in good faith to resolve such dispute in accordance with Section 11.15. If the resolution of such a dispute is that a Party owes an amount of money to the other Party, the Party that owes money shall add a credit of such owed amount to the next invoice that such Party prepares as a Service provider, , that if no further such invoices are due, the Party owing such amount shall pay it to the other Party within sixty (60) days following resolution of the dispute. A failure by a Party to dispute a charge within ninety (90) days after receipt of invoice shall not waive such Party's audit and collection rights under Section 5.5.
provided
 
(d) The Parties acknowledge that there may be a lag in the submission of charges from third parties relating to the provision of Services, and that the Party providing Services through such third parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such third party invoices, and to provide same to the other Party, in a timely fashion.
 
(e) The existence of a dispute pursuant to Section 4.4(c) above shall not excuse either Party from any other obligation under this Agreement, including each Party's obligations to continue to provide Services hereunder.
 
Section 4.5 . All consideration under this Agreement, is exclusive of any sales, transfer, value added, goods or services tax or similar gross receipts based tax (including any such taxes that are required to be withheld, but excluding all other taxes including taxes based upon or calculated by reference to income, receipts or capital) imposed against or on services provided ("") by a Party providing Services hereunder and such Sales Taxes will be added to the consideration where applicable. Such Sales Taxes shall be separately stated on the relevant invoice to the Party receiving Services hereunder. All taxable goods and services for which a Party receiving Services hereunder is compensating, or reimbursing, a Party providing Services hereunder shall be set out separately from non taxable goods and services, if practicable. The Party receiving Services hereunder shall be responsible for any such Sales Taxes and shall either (i) remit such Sales Taxes to the Party providing Services hereunder (and such providing Party shall remit the such amounts to the applicable taxing authority) or (ii) provide such providing Party with a certificate or other acceptable proof evidencing an exemption from liability for such Sales Taxes. In the event the Party providing Services hereunder fails timely to invoice Sales Taxes on taxable goods or services covered by this Agreement, such providing Party shall notify the Party receiving Services hereunder in a timely manner and such receiving Party shall remit such Sales Taxes to such providing Party, , , that such receiving Party shall not be responsible for the payment of any additions to such Sales Taxes, including penalties and interest imposed due to a failure by such providing Party to remit or cause to be remitted such Sales Taxes in a timely manner to the appropriate taxing authority, unless such failure relates to the failure of the such receiving Party to pay to such providing Party the amount of the Sales Taxes properly invoiced in accordance with the terms herein.
Sales Taxes
Sales Taxes
provided
however
 
Section 4.6 . In no event shall a Party offset any amounts due hereunder for its receipt of Services by amounts owed to it hereunder for its provision of Services.
Offset
 
 
 
Section 5.1 .
Access; Work Policy
 
(a) At all times during the Term, each Party shall provide, and shall cause its Affiliates and third parties to provide, the other Party and its Personnel reasonable ingress to and egress from its facilities and premises, and reasonable access to its equipment and Personnel, for any purpose connected with the delivery or receipt of Services hereunder, the exercise of any right under this Agreement or the performance of any obligations required by this Agreement.
 
(b) Each Party's Personnel shall comply with the other Party's safety and security regulations applicable to each specific site or facility while working at such site or facility. Except as otherwise agreed to by the Parties, each Party's Personnel shall observe the working hours, working rules, and holiday schedules of the other Party while working on the premises of the other Party.
 
Section 5.2 .
Security Level; Additional Security Measures
 
(a) Seller Parties and Purchaser Parties shall work together to ensure that, when providing Services, they are each able to maintain their current level (or, if greater, an industry standard level) of physical and electronic security during the Term (including data security and data privacy), and to address any new security related issues, including compliance with Requirements of Law related to security and issues related to new technologies or threats.
 
(b) Any Party providing Services may take physical or information security measures that affect the manner in which Services are provided, so long as the substance or overall functionality of any affected Services remains the same as it was prior to the Effective Date; , that the Party receiving such Services shall be given reasonable, prior notice of any such physical or information security measures that are material.
provided
 
Section 5.3 . In the event of a security breach that relates to the Services, Seller Parties and Purchaser Parties shall, subject to any applicable Requirements of Law, cooperate with each other regarding the timing and manner of (a) notification to their respective customers, potential customers, employees and/or agents concerning a breach or potential breach of security and (b) disclosures to appropriate Governmental Authorities.
Security Breaches
 
Section 5.4 .
Systems Security
 
(a) If any Seller Party or Purchaser Party, or its Personnel, will be given access to any Seller Party's or Purchaser Party's, as applicable, computer systems or software ("") in connection with the performance of the Services, the accessing party or its Personnel, as the case may be, shall comply with all of such other Party's system security policies, procedures and requirements (as amended from time to time, the ""), and will not tamper with, compromise or circumvent any security or audit measures employed by such other Party.
Systems
Security Regulations
 
(b) Each Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that only those of its Personnel who are specifically authorized to have access to the Systems of the other Party gain such access, and to prevent unauthorized access, use, destruction, alteration or loss of information contained therein, including notifying its Personnel regarding the restrictions set forth in this Agreement and establishing appropriate policies designed to effectively enforce such restrictions.
 
(c) If, at any time, either Party determines that the other Party or its Personnel has sought to circumvent, or has circumvented, its Security Regulations, that any unauthorized Personnel of the other Party has accessed its Systems or that the other Party or any of its Personnel has engaged in activities that may lead to the unauthorized access, use, destruction, alteration or loss of data, information or software, such Party shall immediately terminate any such Personnel's access to the Systems and immediately notify the other Party.
 
(d) Seller Parties, Purchaser Parties and their respective Personnel, shall access and use only those Systems, and only such data and information within such Systems to which it has been granted the right to access and use. Any Party shall have the right to deny the Personnel of the other Party access to such Party's Systems, after prior written notice, in the event the Party reasonably believes that such Personnel pose a security concern.
 
(e) A material failure to comply with the Security Regulations shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement. All user identification numbers and passwords of a Party disclosed to the other Party, and any information obtained from the use of such disclosing Party's Systems, shall be deemed Seller Confidential Information or Purchaser Confidential Information, as applicable, of the disclosing Party.
 
(f) Each Party will cooperate with the other Party in investigating any apparent unauthorized access to a Party's Systems or any apparent unauthorized release by a Party or such Party's Personnel of Seller Confidential Information or Purchaser Confidential Information, as applicable. Each Party will (i) immediately notify the other Party if such Party has revoked access to its own Systems to any of its Personnel if such Personnel also has access to the other Party's Systems and (ii) will immediately revoke any access to the other Party's Systems once such Personnel no longer has a need to access the other Party's Systems.
 
Section 5.5 .
Records; Inspection and Audit Rights
 
(a) During the Term and for seven years thereafter, each Party agrees to maintain accurate records arising from or related to any Service provided hereunder, including accounting records and documentation produced in connection with the provision of any Service; , that each Party shall maintain such records for any longer duration required by any Requirement of Law that is applicable to the other Party and of which such Party has reasonable prior notice.
provided
 
(b) Upon reasonable written notice from the Party receiving a Service, the Party providing such Service shall make available to such receiving Party or its Representatives (at such receiving Party's sole expense) reasonable access to or, at the providing Party's option and expense, copies of, the records with respect to such Service during regular business hours. Such records shall include documents relating to the amounts charged by the Party providing the Service, and the Party receiving the Service shall have the right to review and audit such records to verify such amounts. In the event of any discrepancies or disputes between the amounts charged by a Party and such Party's records, the Parties shall work together to resolve such dispute in accordance with Section 11.15. If the resolution of such a dispute is that a Party owes money to the other Party, the Party to which money is owed shall add the amount owed to the next invoice that such Party prepares as a service provider; , that if no further invoices are due, the Party owing such amount shall pay it to the other Party within sixty (60) days following resolution of the dispute).
provided
 
Section 5.6 .
Risks and Controls
 
(a) sets forth the risks relating to the Services for which Seller shall periodically (but no less than annually) demonstrate to Purchaser the existence of adequate controls, by providing standard test results for such controls (as agreed to between the Parties) to Purchaser for its evaluation.
Schedule 5.6(a)
 
(b) sets forth the risks relating to the Services for which Purchaser shall periodically (but no less than annually) demonstrate to Seller the existence of adequate controls, by providing standard test results for such controls (as agreed to between the Parties) to Seller for its evaluation.
Schedule 5.6(b)
 
Section 5.7 . Each Party providing a Service shall permit the auditors (including Governmental Authorities) of the recipient of such Service charged with evaluating the Service recipient's compliance with Requirements of Law reasonable access to the providing Party's relevant documentation, facilities and personnel, as applicable, for purposes of auditing such Services for compliance with Requirements of Law.
Legal and Regulatory Audit Rights
 
Section 5.8 . In the event that (a) a Party cannot demonstrate the existence of adequate controls under Section 5.6(a) or Section 5.6(b), as applicable, or (b) an audit under Section 5.7 identifies noncompliance with a Requirement of Law, the Party providing the applicable Service shall remedy such lack of controls or noncompliance, as applicable, in a commercially reasonable time and manner.
Duty to Remedy
 
 
 
Section 6.1 . As used in this Agreement, Seller Confidential Information and Purchaser Confidential Information are defined as follows:
Confidential Information
 
(a) "" means all information (whether in written, electronic or oral form) disclosed by Seller Parties to Purchaser Parties under the terms and for purposes of this Agreement (including information disclosed in the course of negotiation of this Agreement and the terms of this Agreement) that is not generally known to the public, except for:
Seller Confidential Information
 
(i) information that is or becomes publicly available (other than through disclosure by Purchaser Parties or their Affiliates), from and after the date of public availability;
 
(ii) information disclosed to Purchaser Parties by a third party not known to be bound by any confidentiality agreement with Seller Parties; , that (A) under the circumstances of disclosure, Purchaser Parties do not owe a duty of non disclosure to such third party, (B) to the knowledge of Purchaser Parties, the third party's disclosure does not violate a duty of non disclosure owed to another Person, including any Seller Party and (C) the disclosure by the third party is not otherwise unlawful;
provided
 
(iii) information developed by Purchaser Parties independent of any Seller Confidential Information; or
 
(iv) information that is rightfully in the possession of Purchaser Parties and not subject to any duty of confidentiality as of the Effective Date.
 
(b) "" means all information (whether in written, electronic or oral form) disclosed by Purchaser Parties to Seller Parties under the terms and for purposes of this Agreement (including information disclosed in the course of negotiation of this Agreement and the terms of this Agreement) that is not generally known to the public, except for:
Purchaser Confidential Information
 
(i) information that is or becomes publicly available (other than through disclosure by Seller Parties or its Affiliates), from and after the date of public availability;
 
(ii) information disclosed to Seller Parties by a third party not known to be bound by any confidentiality agreement with Purchaser Parties; provided, that (A) under the circumstances of disclosure, Seller Parties do not owe a duty of non disclosure to such third party, (B) to the knowledge of Seller Parties, the third party's disclosure does not violate a duty of non disclosure owed to another Person, including any Purchaser Party and (C) the disclosure by the third party is not otherwise unlawful;
 
(iii) information developed by Seller Parties independent of any Purchaser Confidential Information; or
 
(iv) information that is rightfully in the possession of Seller Parties and not subject to any duty of confidentiality as of the Effective Date; , , that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, all confidential information relating to the CM Business that is owned by Purchaser as a result of the Transaction Agreement shall be deemed Purchaser Confidential Information even if such information was rightfully in the possession of Seller Parties as of the Effective Date.
provided
however
 
(c) Each of the Seller Parties and the Purchaser Parties shall not, and shall cause its respective Affiliates and each of its and its Affiliates' directors, partners, personnel, accountants, counsel and other professional advisers ("") not to, disclose to any other person or use, except for purposes of this Agreement (and only in accordance with applicable Requirements of Law), any information that is Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, respectively, , , that Seller and Purchaser may disclose Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, respectively, to the extent permitted by any Requirements of Law (i) to its Representatives on a need to know basis in connection with the performance of such Party's obligations under this Agreement, (ii) in any report, statement, testimony or other submission to any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the such Party or (iii) in order to comply with any Requirements of Law applicable to such Party, or in response to any summons, subpoena or other legal process or formal or informal investigative demand issued to such Party in the course of any litigation, investigation or administrative proceeding.
Representatives
provided
however
 
(d) In the event that Seller, Purchaser, or any of either Party's Representatives, becomes legally compelled by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or similar judicial or administrative process to disclose any Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, respectively, such disclosing Party shall provide the other Party with prompt prior written notice of such requirement, and, to the extent reasonably practicable, cooperate with the other Party (at such other Party's expense) to obtain a protective order or similar remedy to cause Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be, not to be disclosed, including interposing all available objections thereto, such as objections based on settlement privilege. In the event that such protective order or other similar remedy is not obtained, the disclosing Party shall furnish only that portion of Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be, that has been legally compelled, and shall exercise commercially reasonable efforts to obtain assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded such disclosed Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be.
 
(e) Each Party shall, and shall cause its Representatives to, protect Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be, by using the same degree of care, but no less than a reasonable degree of care, to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of such as the Party uses to protect its own confidential information of a like nature.
 
(f) Each Party shall cause its Representatives to agree to be bound by the same restrictions on use and disclosure of Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information, as the case may be, as bind the Party under this Agreement in advance of the disclosure of any such Purchaser Confidential Information or Seller Confidential Information to them.
 
 
 
Section 7.1 .
Ownership of Data and Intellectual Property
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) all data created pursuant to a Service and on behalf of the Party receiving such Service, shall be owned by such receiving Party, and (ii) all systems, technology and Intellectual Property owned by Purchaser as a result of the Transaction Agreement shall continue to be owned by Purchaser, even if such systems, technology and Intellectual Property are serviced by Seller.
 
(b) Seller shall be the sole and exclusive owner of all source code and other Intellectual Property it creates (or, subject to the terms of any applicable third party contracts, has created on its behalf) pursuant to its performance under this Agreement, and, pursuant to the CM Cross-License Agreement, shall grant Purchaser a perpetual license to use the foregoing in the CM Business; , that the foregoing perpetual license shall not apply to Trademarks, with respect to which Purchaser shall not receive any perpetual license or other perpetual use rights.
provided
 
(c) Purchaser shall be the sole and exclusive owner of all data, source code and other Intellectual Property it creates (or, subject to the terms of any applicable third party contracts, has created on its behalf) pursuant to its performance under this Agreement, and, pursuant to the CM Cross-License Agreement, shall grant Seller a perpetual license to use the foregoing in Seller's Business; , that the foregoing perpetual license shall not apply to Trademarks, with respect to which Seller shall not receive any perpetual license or other perpetual use rights.
provided
 
(d) To the extent that Seller and Purchaser jointly create Intellectual Property hereunder, such Intellectual Property shall be owned jointly by Seller and Purchaser (with no right of accounting); provided, that no Trademarks shall be jointly owned; and , , that if such Intellectual Property is derived from or otherwise based upon a Party's Intellectual Property, only the newly created derivative Intellectual Property shall be jointly owned, and such joint ownership shall not affect the ownership of the underlying Intellectual Property. If the Parties collaborate to create any Trademarks (i) that are derived from or based upon a Party's Intellectual Property, such Trademarks shall be owned by such Party and (ii) that are not derived from or based upon a Party's Intellectual Property, the Parties shall agree in writing before such creation which party shall own such Trademarks, and the other Party's rights therein.
provided
further
 
Section 7.2 . To the extent reasonably required by a Party providing Services, each Party shall cause the Seller Parties or Purchaser Parties, as applicable, that receive Services hereunder to execute a written agreement with such Party, sufficient to comply with any applicable Requirements of Law relating to data protection.
Data Protection
 
 
 
Section 8.1 . EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTION AGREEMENT, NEITHER PARTY MAKES, AND EACH PARTY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS, ANY AND ALL REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, WITH RESPECT TO THE SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO MERCHANTABILITY, OR SUITABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON INFRINGEMENT OF ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER AND ANY WARRANTIES ARISING FROM COURSE OF DEALING, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE OR TRADE USAGE. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT IS INTENDED TO LIMIT ANY RIGHTS OR REMEDIES OF EITHER PARTY UNDER THE TRANSACTION AGREEMENT.
Disclaimer of Representations and Warranties
 
 
 
Section 9.1 . Subject to the terms of this ARTICLE IX, from and after the Effective Date, Seller shall indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless Purchaser and its Affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, successors and assigns (collectively, the ""), from and against any and all Losses (including such fees and expenses related to the enforcement of this Agreement), to the extent resulting from or arising out of any action, suit, proceedings, claim, demand, investigation or assessment made or brought by a third party that is unaffiliated with the Indemnified Party (each, a "") to the extent arising from or related to (a) any Seller Party's breach of this Agreement or (b) infringement or misappropriation by the Services and materials provided by a Seller Party under this Agreement of such third party's (i) patents, so long as such Seller Party had knowledge of such infringement as of the Effective Date or (ii) copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets.
Indemnification of Purchaser
Purchaser Indemnified Parties
Third Party Claim
 
Section 9.2 . Subject to the terms of this ARTICLE IX, from and after the Effective Date, Purchaser shall indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless Seller and its Affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, successors and assigns (collectively, the "" and, together with the Purchaser Indemnified Parties, the ""), from and against any and all any and all Losses (including such fees and expenses related to the enforcement of this Agreement), to the extent resulting from or arising out of any Third Party Claim to the extent arising from or related to (a) any Purchaser Party's breach of this Agreement or (b) infringement or misappropriation by the Services and materials provided by a Purchaser Party under this Agreement of such third party's (i) patents, so long as such Purchaser Party had knowledge of such infringement as of the Effective Date or (ii) copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets.
Indemnification of Seller
Seller Indemnified Parties
Indemnified Parties
 
Section 9.3 .
Claims
 
(a) Upon receipt by an Indemnified Party of notice of a Third Party Claim with respect to a matter for which such Indemnified Party is indemnified under this ARTICLE IX which has given, or is reasonably expected to give, rise to a claim for Losses, the Indemnified Party shall as soon as practicable, in the case of a Purchaser Indemnified Party, notify Seller, and, in the case of a Seller Indemnified Party, notify Purchaser (Seller or Purchaser, as the case may be, the ""), in writing, indicating the nature of such Third Party Claim and the basis therefor; , , that any delay or failure by the Indemnified Party to give notice to the Indemnifying Party shall relieve the Indemnifying Party of its obligations hereunder only to the extent, if at all, that it is prejudiced by reason of such delay or failure. Such written notice requirement shall be satisfied by promptly transmitting the statement of claim, complaint, regulatory correspondence or other document triggering the indemnification to the Indemnifying Party along with a cover letter stating briefly why the Indemnified Party believes the claim is subject to indemnification. Such notice shall be sent by facsimile or overnight delivery service in accordance with Section 11.3.
Indemnifying Party
provided
however
 
(b) The Indemnifying Party shall have ten (10) Business Days after receipt of notice to elect, at its option, to assume and control the defense of, at its own expense and by its own counsel, any such Third Party Claim, and shall be entitled to assert any and all defenses available to the Indemnified Party to the fullest extent permitted under Requirements of Law.
 
(c) If the Indemnifying Party shall undertake to compromise any such Third Party Claim, it shall promptly, but in any event within ten (10) Business Days of the receipt of notice from the Indemnified Party of such Third Party Claim, notify the Indemnified Party of its intention to do so, and the Indemnified Party agrees to cooperate fully with the Indemnifying Party and its counsel in the compromise of, or defense against, any such Third Party Claim; , , that the Indemnifying Party shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect to, any such Third Party Claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) unless the relief consists solely of money Losses to be paid by the Indemnifying Party and includes a provision whereby the plaintiff or claimant in the matter releases the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or Seller Indemnified Parties, as applicable, from all liability with respect thereto.
provided
however
 
(d) Notwithstanding an election to assume the defense of any action or proceeding, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in the defense of such action or proceeding, and the Indemnifying Party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if the (i) Indemnified Party shall have determined in good faith that an actual or potential conflict of interest makes representation by the same counsel or the counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party inappropriate or (ii) Indemnifying Party shall have authorized the Indemnified Party to employ separate counsel at the Indemnifying Party's expense.
 
(e) In any event, the Indemnified Party and Indemnifying Party and their counsel shall cooperate in the defense of any Third Party Claim subject to this ARTICLE IX, keep such Persons informed of all developments relating to any such Third Party Claims and provide copies of all relevant correspondence and documentation relating thereto. All costs and expenses incurred in connection with the Indemnified Party's cooperation shall be borne by the Indemnifying Party. In any event, the Indemnified Party shall have the right at its own expense to participate in the defense of such asserted liability.
 
(f) If the Indemnifying Party receiving such notice of a Third Party Claim does not elect to defend such Third Party Claim pursuant to Section 9.3(b), or does not defend such Third Party Claim in good faith, the Indemnified Party shall have the right, in addition to any other right or remedy it may have hereunder, at the Indemnifying Party's expense, to defend such Third Party Claim; , , that the Indemnified Party shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect to, any such Third Party Claim without the written consent of the Indemnifying Party (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
provided
however
 
Section 9.4 . Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement to the contrary:
Limitations
 
(a) Seller or Purchaser, as applicable, shall not be liable for any amounts for which the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or the Seller Indemnified Parties, as applicable, are otherwise entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 9.1 or Section 9.2, as applicable, unless the amount of Losses with respect to the particular act, circumstance, development, event, fact, occurrence or omission giving rise to such Losses exceeds $50,000 and shall be liable only to the extent such Losses exceed $50,000 (aggregating all such Losses arising from the same set of facts or circumstances).
 
(b) Seller's total liability with respect to this Agreement shall not exceed, in the aggregate, two times the aggregate amount of the Seller Fees paid hereunder, except to the extent that any liability arises out of Seller's gross negligence, willful or intentional misconduct, common law fraud or other violation of any Requirements of Law.
 
(c) Purchaser's total liability with respect to this Agreement shall not exceed, in the aggregate, two times the aggregate amount of the Seller Fees paid hereunder, except to the extent that any liability arises out of Purchaser's gross negligence, willful or intentional misconduct, common law fraud or other violation of any Requirements of Law.
 
Section 9.5 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, in no event shall any Indemnifying Party be obligated under this ARTICLE IX to indemnify an Indemnified Party otherwise entitled to indemnity hereunder in respect of any Losses to the extent that such Losses result from (a) the Indemnified Party's willful or intentional misconduct or negligence, (b) the Indemnified Party's failure to perform its obligations under this Agreement, or (c) the Indemnified Party's violation of Requirements of Law, (d) acts of the Indemnified Party that are outside of the ordinary course of business, other than reasonable acts taken pursuant to Section 9.9 hereunder unless (i) taken at the Indemnifying Party's written request and direction or (ii) approved in advance in writing by the Indemnifying Party, or (e) acts taken by the Indemnifying Party pursuant to the Indemnified Party's specific (x) written request and direction, that no schedule to this Agreement shall constitute such a request or (y) oral request and direction, so long as such oral request or direction was made, and the acts taken in response to such oral request or direction were taken, in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice between the Parties; , that in the case of (x) or (y), such acts taken by the Indemnifying Party were in compliance with the sections of this Agreement set forth on , as applicable, unless non-compliance was specified by, or reasonably foreseeable in the fulfillment of, the request or direction of the Indemnified Party. Nothing in this Section 9.5 shall affect either Party's obligations under Section 9.9 hereunder.
Exclusions
provided
provided
Schedule 9.5(e)
 
Section 9.6 .
Payments
 
(a) Amounts payable by the Indemnifying Party to the Indemnified Party in respect of any Losses for which such Party is entitled to indemnification hereunder ("") and to which the limitations set forth in Section 9.4 do not apply shall be paid in immediately available funds within ten (10) Business Days after the later of (i) the receipt of a written request from the Indemnified Party entitled to such Indemnity Payment and (ii) the date of payment of the amount that is the subject of the Indemnity Payment by the Party entitled to receive the Indemnity Payment, except to the extent contested by the Indemnifying Party. All such Indemnity Payments shall be made to the designated account of, and in the manner specified in writing by, the Party entitled to such Indemnity Payments.
Indemnity Payments
 
(b) With respect to Indemnity Payments to which the limitations set forth in Section 9.4 do apply, if a Party's Indemnity Payments at any time exceed two times the aggregate amount of the Seller Fees paid hereunder prior to the date on which the indemnification obligation arose, then such Party shall (i) pay to the Indemnified Party two (2) times the aggregate amount of Seller Fees paid hereunder prior to such date and (ii) continue to pay the other Party two times the Seller Fees that such Party receives or pays, as applicable, following such date, until the earlier to occur of the full (A) satisfaction of such liability or (B) termination or expiration of this Agreement.
 
Section 9.7 .
Insurance; Tax Benefits
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, Losses shall be net of any insurance or other prior or subsequent recoveries actually received by the Indemnified Party or its Affiliates in connection with the facts giving rise to the claim for indemnification. If an Indemnified Party shall have used commercially reasonable efforts to recover any amounts recoverable under insurance policies and shall not have recovered the applicable Losses, the Indemnifying Party shall be liable for the amount by which such Losses exceeds the amounts actually recovered.
 
(b) Any indemnity payments made pursuant to this ARTICLE IX by any Indemnifying Party to an Indemnified Party shall be increased to account for any Tax cost incurred by the Indemnified Party upon the receipt of such payment (grossed up for such payment) and shall be made net of any Tax Benefit realized or utilized by the Indemnified Party or any of its Affiliates resulting from the payments of the amounts indemnified against giving rise to such indemnity payments. For purposes of determining the amount of any Tax Benefit or Tax cost incurred, the Indemnified Party shall be deemed to pay Tax at the highest United States federal income tax corporate marginal rate in effect in the year such indemnifiable Loss is incurred and the recipient of the Tax Benefit shall be deemed to realize or utilize any Tax Benefit in the first taxable year that such Tax Benefit may be realized or utilized under Requirements of Law after taking into account all other Tax Attributes of such indemnified party and the projected utilization of such Tax Attributes as computed by the recipient of such Tax Benefit. If a Tax Benefit resulting from the incurrence or payment of Losses is available to any Indemnified Party or its Affiliates in multiple Tax years, the amount of such Tax Benefit for purposes of this Section 9.7(b) shall be the net present value of all of such available Tax Benefits, calculated by using a discount rate equal to the long term applicable federal rate for the month in which such Losses are incurred. The amount of any increase or reduction hereunder shall be adjusted to reflect any final determination (which shall include the execution of Form 870 AD or successor form) with respect to the Indemnified Party's liability for Taxes, and any payments, if necessary, by the Indemnified Party or the Indemnifying Party to reflect such adjustment shall be made if necessary within ten (10) days of such determination.
 
Section 9.8 . The right to indemnification provided in this ARTICLE IX shall be the exclusive remedy (including equitable remedies that involve monetary payment, such as restitution or disgorgement, other than specific performance to enforce any payment or performance due hereunder) of the Parties from and after the Effective Date in connection with any Third-Party Claims.
Remedies Exclusive
 
Section 9.9 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, each Indemnified Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any claim or liability that an Indemnified Party asserts or may assert under this Agreement. In the event that an Indemnified Party shall fail to make such commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any such claim or liability, then notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, neither Seller nor Purchaser, as the case may be, shall be required to indemnify any Indemnified Party for that portion of any Losses that would reasonably be expected to have been avoided if the Indemnified Party had made such efforts.
Mitigation
 
Section 9.10 . The remedies provided in this Agreement shall not be cumulative of any duplicative remedy available pursuant to the Transaction Agreement. Nothing contained in this ARTICLE IX shall limit or alter the obligation of any Party to indemnify any other Party pursuant to ARTICLE X of the Transaction Agreement.
No Double Recovery; No Limitation
 
 
 
Section 10.1 . Except as otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall become effective, and each Service shall commence, on the Effective Date, and this Agreement shall remain in force, and each Service shall continue, for a period of eighteen months thereafter or as otherwise agreed to by the Parties with respect to Additional Services (the ""), unless earlier terminated by the Parties as provided in this ARTICLE X.
Term of Agreement
Base Term
 
Section 10.2 . Not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the Base Term, Purchaser or Seller, as applicable, shall notify the other Party if such Party determines in good faith that it will not be able to complete the transition from, or to replace, one or more Services prior to the expiration of the Base Term for such Services. Provided that such Party has at all times performed its obligations under Section 2.8, the other Party shall continue to provide such Services, and, solely with respect to such Services, to extend the term of this Agreement for up to an additional six months (the "" and, together with the Base Term, the ""); , that such Party shall at all times use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize the duration of any such extension. Notwithstanding the foregoing and unless otherwise agreed to by the Parties with respect to an Additional Service, this Agreement, and any obligation to provide any Services hereunder, shall terminate no later than the date that is twenty four months after the Effective Date.
Extension of Certain Services
Extension Term
Term
provided
 
Section 10.3 .
Termination
 
(a) .
Termination by Seller or Purchaser for Material Breach
 
(i) If a Party materially breaches this Agreement, the other Party may terminate the Services affected by such material breach unless,
 
within thirty (30) days of written notice thereof, such breaching Party (i) cures such material breach to the reasonable satisfaction of the other Party (if such material breach is subject to cure) and (ii) demonstrates, to the other Party's reasonable satisfaction, that such breaching Party has enacted remedial measures designed to prevent the breach from occurring again.
 
(ii) Upon a Party's second material breach of this Agreement with respect to a particular Service where such second material breach is substantially similar to the first material breach with respect to such Service, the other Party may terminate the Services affected by such material breach and, within thirty (30) days of written notice of such material breach, such breaching Party must (i) cure such material breach to the reasonable satisfaction of the other Party (if such material breach is subject to cure) and (ii) demonstrate, to the other Party's sole satisfaction, that such breaching Party has enacted remedial measures designed to prevent the breach from occurring again.
 
(b) . This Agreement, or any Service provided hereunder, as applicable, may be terminated by either Party (the "") upon written notice to the other Party, if:
Other Termination by Seller or Purchaser
Terminating Party
 
(i) the other Party makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or becomes insolvent, or a receiver is appointed for, or a court approves reorganization or arrangement proceedings on, such Party; or
 
(ii) required by any Governmental Entity, upon thirty (30) days' notice or sooner if necessary; , , that prior to any such notice of termination, the Parties mutually agree that this Agreement cannot be amended in a manner that will satisfy such Governmental Entity without materially changing the effect or intent of this Agreement.
provided
however
 
(c) .
Partial Termination
 
(i) Either Party, as a Service recipient, may on thirty (30) days' written notice to the other Party, terminate any Seller Service, Purchaser Service or Additional Service, as applicable. Any such terminated Service shall be deleted from Schedule 2.1(a), Schedule 2.2(a) or Schedule 2.4, as applicable, and the terminating Party shall have no obligation to continue to use or pay for any such Seller Service or Purchaser Service, as applicable; , , that this Agreement shall remain in effect until neither Party requires any Service from the other Party, or until otherwise terminated pursuant to this ARTICLE X.
provided
however
 
(ii) Any termination notice delivered by either Party pursuant to this Section 10.3(c) shall specify in detail the Service or Services to be terminated, and the effective date of such termination.
 
(d) . Once a Party has fully completed its transition from or replacement of a Service it has been receiving hereunder, such receiving Party shall immediately terminate such Service in accordance with Section 10.3(c).
Automatic Termination
 
Section 10.4 . In the event that this Agreement is terminated for any reason:
Effect of Termination
 
(a) Each Party agrees and acknowledges that the obligations of each Party to provide the Services, or to cause the Services to be provided, hereunder shall immediately cease, and any licenses to Seller Facilities and Purchaser Facilities granted hereunder shall immediately terminate. Upon cessation of the applicable Party's obligation to provide any Service, the Party receiving the Service shall stop using, directly or indirectly, such Service.
 
(b) Upon request, each Party shall, and shall cause its Affiliates and third parties (subject to the terms of such Party's agreements with such third parties) retained by such Party or Affiliates to, return to the other Party or destroy (and certify to the destruction of) all tangible personal property and books, records or files owned by such other Party or its Affiliates and third parties and used in connection with the provision of Services that are in their possession as of the termination date.
 
(c) In the event that the Party receiving a Service seeks to discontinue such Service without providing the thirty (30) day notice provided for herein, the Party receiving such Service shall be responsible to the Party providing such Service for reasonable and proper termination charges, including all reasonable cancellation costs, that are actually incurred by the Party providing such Service; , that (i) the Party providing such Service shall use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize all such costs; and (ii) such costs shall be no greater than the amount the Party receiving such Service would have paid for thirty (30) days of such Service had the Party receiving such Service actually received such Service.
provided
 
(d) The following matters shall survive the termination of this Agreement (i) the rights and obligations of each Party under Section 5.5(a), Section 5.5(b), ARTICLE VI, ARTICLE VII, ARTICLE VIII, ARTICLE IX, this Section 10.4 and ARTICLE XI and (ii) the obligations under ARTICLE IV of each Party to pay the applicable Fees for Services furnished prior to the effective date of termination.
 
 
 
Section 11.1 .
Construction
 
(a) For the purposes of this Agreement (i) words (including capitalized terms defined herein) in the singular shall be held to include the plural and vice versa and words (including capitalized terms defined herein) of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the context requires, (ii) all references to the "Agreement" shall include all Exhibits, Schedules and Attachments to this Agreement unless otherwise specified, (iii) the terms "hereof," "herein" and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be
 
construed to refer to this Agreement as a whole (including all of the Exhibits) and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and Article, Section, paragraph and Exhibit references are to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs and Exhibits to this Agreement, unless otherwise specified, (iv) the word "including" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement mean "including without limitation," (v) "commercially reasonable efforts" shall not require a waiver by any Party of any material rights or any action or omission that would be a breach of this Agreement, (vi) all references to any period of days shall be deemed to be to the relevant number of calendar days unless otherwise specified, (vii) all references herein to "$" or dollars shall refer to United States dollars, unless otherwise specified and (viii) all terms defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed herein when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto unless otherwise defined therein.
 
(b) The Parties acknowledge and agree that, to the extent there is a conflict between the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the terms and provisions of any Exhibit (including any Attachment thereto) or Schedule hereto, the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall control.
 
(c) The Parties acknowledge that each Party and its respective counsel have reviewed and revised this Agreement, and that no rule of construction to the effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting Party shall be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement or any amendments hereto.
 
Section 11.2 . The Article and Section headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
 
Section 11.3 . All notices, demands, and other communications required or permitted to be given to any Party under this Agreement shall be in writing and any such notice, demand or other communication shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by hand, courier or overnight delivery service or, if mailed, two Business Days after deposit in the mail, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested and with first class postage prepaid or, in the case of facsimile notice, when sent and transmission is confirmed, and, regardless of method, addressed to the Party at its address or facsimile number set forth below (or at such other address or facsimile number as the Party shall furnish the other parties in accordance with this Section 11.3), with a copy sent in a like manner to the applicable Service Coordinator:
Notices
 
If to Citigroup:
 
Citigroup Inc.
399 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10043
Attn: Andrew Felner
Facsimile: (212) 559 7057
 
If to Legg Mason:
 
Legg Mason, Inc.
100 Light Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21202
Attn:    Thomas P. Lemke
    Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Facsimile: (410) 454 4607
 
Section 11.4 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Requirements of Law of the State of New York applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely within such State, without regard to the conflict of laws principles of such State.
Governing Law
 
Section 11.5 .
Jurisdiction; Venue; Consent to Service of Process
 
(a) Each Party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York or, if such court will not accept jurisdiction, the Supreme Court of the State of New York or any court of competent civil jurisdiction sitting in New York County, New York. In any action, suit or other proceeding related to this Agreement, each Party irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to assert by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise any claims that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of the above courts, that such action or suit is brought in an inconvenient forum or that the venue of such action, suit or other proceeding is improper. Each Party also hereby agrees that any final and unappealable judgment against a Party in connection with any action, suit or other proceeding related to this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on such Party and that such award or judgment may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction, either within or outside of the United States. A certified or exemplified copy of such award or judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the fact and amount of such award or judgment.
 
(b) Each Party irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for the giving of notices pursuant to Section 11.3 of this Agreement. Nothing in this Section 11.15 shall affect the right of any Party to serve process in any other manner permitted under Requirements of Law.
 
Section 11.6 . This Agreement, together with all Schedules hereto, the Transaction Agreement (except for Exhibit F-1, Exhibit F-2 and Exhibit F-3 to the Transaction Agreement), the Related Agreements, the Confidentiality Agreement and that certain letter agreement, dated as of September 12, 2005, by and between Citigroup and Legg Mason, embody the entire agreement of the Parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements with respect thereto. The Parties intend that this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any judicial proceeding involving this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
 
Section 11.7 . No amendment to this Agreement shall be effective unless it shall be in writing and signed by each Party hereto. Any
Amendment, Modification and Waiver
 
failure of a Party to comply with any obligation, covenant, agreement or condition contained in this Agreement may be waived by the Party entitled to the benefits thereof only by a written instrument duly executed and delivered by the Party granting such waiver, but such waiver or failure to insist upon strict compliance with such obligation, covenant, agreement or condition shall not operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other failure of compliance.
 
Section 11.8 . If any provision of this Agreement, or the application of any such provision, is invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision of this Agreement, or invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. To the extent permitted by applicable Requirements of Law, the Parties waive any provision under Requirements of Law that renders any provision of this Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect. The Parties shall, to the extent lawful and practicable, use commercially reasonable efforts to enter into arrangements to reinstate the intended benefits, net of the intended burdens, of any such provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Severability
 
Section 11.9 . This Agreement and all its provisions shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns. Nothing in this Agreement, whether expressed or implied, will confer on any Person, other than the Parties or their respective permitted successors and assigns, any rights, remedies or liabilities; that the provisions of ARTICLE IX will inure to the benefit of the Indemnified Parties.
Successors and Assigns; No Third Party Beneficiaries
provided
 
Section 11.10 . No Party may assign its rights or obligations under this Agreement, including in the case of a merger or other change of control, without the prior written consent of the other Party (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld); , that Purchaser may assign this Agreement in its entirety to Stifel Financial Corporation or an affiliate thereof. Any purported assignment or transfer in violation of this Section 11.10 shall be void and shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement.
Assignment
provided
 
Section 11.11 . TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, SUIT, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
Section 11.12 . Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, all expenses incurred in connection with the drafting and negotiation of this Agreement shall be paid by the Party incurring such expenses.
Expenses
 
Section 11.13 . This Agreement may be executed by the Parties in multiple counterparts which may be delivered by facsimile transmission. Each counterpart when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, and all such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
Section 11.14 . Each Party and its Affiliates shall be acting as an independent contractor in performing under this Agreement, and shall not be considered or deemed to be an agent, employee, joint venturer or partner of the other Party or any of its Affiliates. Each Party and its Affiliates shall, at all times, maintain complete control over its Personnel and operations, and shall have sole responsibility for staffing, instructing and compensating its Personnel. Neither Party (nor its Affiliates) shall have, or shall represent that it has, any power, right or authority to bind the other Party (or its Affiliates) to any obligation or liability, to assume or create any obligation or liability or transact any business in the name or on behalf of the other Party (or its Affiliates), or make any promises or representations on behalf of the other Party (or its Affiliates), unless agreed to in writing.
Relationship of the Parties
 
Section 11.15 . In the event of any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach, termination or validity thereof, including the dispute of any fees invoiced under ARTICLE IV or any claim by any Party that any other Party has breached the material terms hereof (each, a ""), the Service Coordinators of Seller and Purchaser shall meet (by telephone or in person) no later than two (2) Business Days after receipt of notice by any Party of a request for resolution of a Dispute. The Service Coordinators shall enter into negotiations aimed at resolving any such Dispute. If the Service Coordinators are unable to reach mutually satisfactory resolution of the Dispute within ten (10) Business Days after receipt of notice of the Dispute, the Dispute shall be referred to an executive committee (the "") comprised of at least one member of the senior management of each Party. The initial members of the Executive Committee, including relevant contact information, are set forth on , and either Party may replace its Executive Committee members at any time with other representatives of similar seniority by providing notice in accordance with Section 11.3. The Executive Committee will meet (by telephone or in person) during the next ten (10) Business Days and attempt to resolve the Dispute.
Dispute Resolution
Dispute
Executive Committee
Schedule 11.15
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Party hereto has caused this Agreement to be duly executed on its behalf as of the day and year first above written.
 
 


