FILE:LM/LM-8K-20051221172834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)    
                    
December 1, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:    
                
(410) 539-0000
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 7, 2005, Legg Mason, Inc. (the "Company") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K in connection with the December 1, 2005 completion of a transaction with Citigroup Inc. whereby the Company acquired the ownership interests in Citigroup subsidiaries that constitute substantially all of Citigroup's worldwide asset management business ("CAM") in exchange for, among other things, the ownership interests in Company subsidiaries that constitute the Company's private client brokerage and capital markets businesses (the "Transaction"). The Transaction is discussed in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 7, 2005. This Current Report on Form 8-K/A amends the Current Report on Form 8-K discussing the Transaction that was filed on December 7, 2005 to include audited and unaudited financial statements for the CAM business and related Company pro forma financial information. Attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3, and incorporated herein by reference, are the audited combined financial statements of the CAM business for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the unaudited combined financial statements of the CAM business for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 and unaudited pro forma combined financial data of the Company giving effect to the Transaction and the Company's acquisition of Permal Group Ltd., respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following pro forma combined financial statements are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 23
 
 
 
We consent to the inclusion of our report dated November 11, 2005, with respect to the combined statements of financial condition of Citigroup Asset Management Businesses to be Transferred as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related combined statements of operations, changes in net assets, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, included in Exhibit 99.1 on Form 8-K/A of Legg Mason, Inc. dated December 21, 2005.
 
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
 
New York, New York
December 21, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KPMG LLP
345 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10154
 
 
The Board of Directors
Citigroup Inc.:
 
We have audited the accompanying combined statements of financial condition of Citigroup Asset Management Businesses to be Transferred (the Company) as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related combined statements of operations, changes in net assets, and cash flows for the each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004. These combined financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these combined financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Citigroup Asset Management Businesses to be Transferred as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
 
November 11, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to the combined financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to the combined financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to the combined financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to the combined financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
The accompanying combined financial statements of Citigroup Asset Management represent the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Citigroup Inc.'s global asset management business (the Transfer Business) as more fully described in the Transaction Agreement (the Agreement), dated as of June 23, 2005, by and between Citigroup Inc. (Citigroup) and Legg Mason, Inc. (Legg Mason). The Transfer Business excludes certain businesses, which were historically included in the global asset management segment. These excluded businesses are Citigroup Asset Management Argentina, Citigroup Asset Management Colombia, and Citigroup Transfer Agency business. The transaction also does not include Citigroup's asset management business in Mexico, its retirement services business in Latin America or its interest in the CitiStreet joint venture. Under the terms of the Agreement, Citigroup agreed to sell the Transfer Business to Legg Mason in exchange for the broker dealer business of Legg Mason, approximately $1.5 billion of Legg Mason's common and convertible preferred shares, and approximately $550 million in the form of a five-year loan facility provided by Citigroup, subject to certain closing adjustments and financing arrangements. As a result of ongoing discussions and negotiations subsequent to the Agreement, it is anticipated that certain businesses included in these financial statements may be excluded from the sale to Legg Mason. Refer to Subsequent Events, note 11 for further information.
 
Citigroup Asset Management (CAM) offers a broad range of asset management products and services from global investment centers including mutual funds, closed-end funds, managed accounts, unit investment trusts, and variable annuities.
 
Clients include private and public retirement plans, endowments, foundations, banks, insurance companies, other corporations, government agencies, high net worth and other individuals. Client relationships may be introduced through Smith Barney's network of Financial Consultants and other cross-marketing and distribution opportunities within the Citigroup structure, through the Asset Management Group's own sales force or through unaffiliated intermediaries.
 
The combined financial statements have been prepared as if the Transfer Business had been a stand-alone operation, though they are not necessarily representative of results had the Transfer Business operated as a stand-alone operation. For mixed use or shared entities the balances were derived using cost centers which are associated with the CAM business in the general ledger hierarchy. Where cost centers for CAM could not be specifically segregated from shared entities, all assets and liabilities from these shared entities are included in the combined statements of financial condition. The payable to affiliates includes an adjustment to remove the non-CAM net income for these respective shared entities. The financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Citigroup, which may be different from comparable expenses that would have been incurred had the Transfer Business operated as a stand-alone business.
 
The combined financial statements and accompanying footnotes are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and benefits and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
The principal operations of the Transfer Business consist of providing diversified investment management services to registered investment companies, and institutional and individual investors on a discretionary
 
 
 
 
basis in the United States. The Transfer Business also has operations in various foreign countries whose currencies are freely convertible into U.S. dollars. The Transfer Business receives ongoing fees from its asset management clients, generally determined as a percentage of the client's assets.
 
The operations of the Transfer Business utilize the Citigroup Management Information Systems (MIS) process to report their management financial statements. Within Citigroup, MIS transactions are used to allocate revenue and expense adjustments between Citigroup legal entities to create management based income statements by region and product type. The Transfer Business receives allocations for their advisory and administrative services rendered. MIS transactions are generally recorded on a fair market value basis between Citigroup entities for various services provided without transfer of cash. See note 10 for further details. The use of the term parent in these combined financial statements is defined as the immediate parent company to the legal entity included in the Transfer Business.
 
Significant intercompany transactions within the Transfer Business have been eliminated.
 
 
The accounting policies discussed in this section are those that are considered to be significant to the portrayal of the Transfer Business's financial condition.
 
 
Financial statement accounts expressed in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 52, (SFAS 52). Under SFAS 52, functional currency assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using current rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date of each respective subsidiary and the related translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of comprehensive income, net of any related taxes in net assets. Functional currencies are generally the currencies of the local operating environment. Income statement accounts expressed in functional currencies are translated using average exchange rates. Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are recorded in the combined statements of operations.
Foreign Currency Translation
 
 
The Transfer Business defines cash and cash equivalents as cash on hand and in banks and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less when purchased.
 
 
Property, equipment and leasehold improvements are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the estimated useful lives of the related assets or noncancelable lease terms, as appropriate. Maintenance and repairs are charged to occupancy and equipment expense as incurred. Certain internal use software costs are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the estimate useful lives of the related asset or three years.
 
 
 
 
 
Long-term investments in operating joint ventures and affiliated (20% to 50% owned) companies are carried on the equity method of accounting and are included in investments, at value. The Transfer Business's equity in the earnings of joint ventures and affiliates is reported in other revenues.
 
 
The Transfer Business accounts for intangible assets in accordance with the SFAS No. 142, (SFAS 142). In accordance with SFAS 142 intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, and are subject to annual impairment tests. An impairment exists if the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value. The Transfer Business performed the required impairment tests of intangible assets during 2004 and 2003 and no impairments were recognized. All of the intangible assets of the Transfer Business are deemed to have indefinite lives.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
In 2002, the initial adoption of SFAS 142 resulted in a cumulative adjustment of $24 million (net of tax benefit of $16 million) recorded as a charge to earnings related to the impairment of certain intangible assets.
 
 
Sales commissions paid to financial intermediaries in connection with the sales of shares of open-end company sponsored mutual funds without a front-end sales charge are capitalized as deferred sales commissions and amortized over periods not exceeding six years, the periods of time during which deferred sales commissions are generally recovered from distribution service fees received from those funds and from contingent deferred sales charges (CDSC) received from shareholders of those funds upon the redemption of their shares. CDSC cash recoveries are recorded as reductions of unamortized deferred sales commissions when received.
 
Management tests the deferred sales commission asset for impairment semi-annually. Significant assumptions utilized to estimate the undiscounted future cash flows from back-end load shares and distribution service fees include expected redemption rates. The aggregate undiscounted cash flows are compared to the recorded value of the deferred commission asset. Management considers the results of these analyses performed at various dates. If management determines in the future that the deferred sales commission asset is not recoverable, an impairment condition would exist and a loss would be measured as the amount by which the recorded amount of the asset exceeds its estimated fair value.
 
 
The Transfer Business derives its revenue primarily from investment advisory and administration services provided to investment companies and institutional and individual investors. Investment advisory fees are recognized during the period in which such services are performed. Expense reimbursements to certain sponsored mutual funds in accordance with agreements are reported on a net basis as an offset to investment advisory fees.
 
 
 
 
 
The provision for federal, state and foreign income taxes is comprised of two components, current income taxes and deferred income taxes. Deferred federal, state and foreign income taxes arise from changes during the year in cumulative temporary differences between the tax basis and book basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management's judgment that realization is more likely than not.
 
 
In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) released FASB Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" (FIN 46). FIN 46 changes the method of determining whether certain entities should be included in the Transfer Business's combined financial statements. An entity is subject to FIN 46 and is called a Variable Interest Entity (VIE) if it has (1) equity that is insufficient to permit the equity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or (2) equity investors that cannot make significant decisions about the entity's operations, or that do not absorb the expected losses or receive the expected returns of the equity. All other entities are evaluated for consolidation under the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 94, "Consolidation of All Majority-Owned Subsidiaries" (SFAS 94). A VIE is consolidated by its primary beneficiary, which is the party involved with the VIE that has a majority of the expected losses or a majority of the expected residual returns or both.
 
For any VIEs that must be consolidated under FIN 46 that were created before February 1, 2003, the assets, liabilities, and noncontrolling interests of the VIE are initially measured at their carrying amounts with any difference between the net amount added to the balance sheet and any previously recognized interest being recognized as the cumulative effect of an accounting change. If determining the carrying amounts is not practicable, fair value at the date FIN 46 first applies may be used to measure the assets, liabilities, and noncontrolling interests of the VIE. In October 2003, FASB announced that the effective date of FIN 46 was deferred from July 1, 2003 to periods ending after December 15, 2003 for VIEs created prior to February 1, 2003. The Transfer Business elected to implement the provisions of FIN 46 in the third quarter of 2003, resulting in the consolidation of VIEs increasing both total assets and total liabilities by approximately $384 million in 2003, primarily due to certain structured finance transactions. The implementation of FIN 46 encompassed a review of numerous entities to determine the impact of adoption and considerable judgment was used in evaluating whether or not a VIE should be consolidated.
 
 
 
 
On January 1, 2004, the Transfer Business adopted FASB Interpretation No. 46, (FIN 46-R), which includes substantial changes from the original FIN 46. Included in these changes, the calculation of expected losses and expected residual returns has been altered to reduce the impact of decision maker and guarantor fees in the calculation of expected residual returns and expected losses. In addition, the definition of a variable interest has been changed in the revised guidance. The adoption of FIN 46-R resulted in the consolidation of VIEs increasing both total assets and total liabilities by approximately $56 million in 2004.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (revised December 2003)
 
 
Except where the method and assumptions used to estimate carrying values are separately described in these notes to the combined financial statements, the carrying values of other financial assets and liabilities including accrued investment advisory fees and payables to affiliates approximate their fair values due to their short term nature or variable rate of interest.
 
 
Investments consist of various investments in proprietary mutual funds and are carried at market value in the combined statements of financial condition. Realized and unrealized gains and losses arising from investment activities are recorded in other revenues in the combined statements of operations.
 
 
On January 1, 2002, $797 million of the Transfer Business's acquired intangible assets, primarily asset management and administration contracts, were considered to be of indefinite life and not subject to amortization.
 
Investment advisory contracts relate to certain investment advisory contracts in connection with the acquisition of Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc. by Travelers Group Inc. in 1998. Also included in investment advisory contracts are the unamortized cost (approximately $405 million) ascribed to investment advisory contracts which were purchased by the Transfer Business in connection with the acquisition of the asset management businesses of Shearson Lehman Holdings, Inc. in July 1993 (the Shearson Acquisition), the unamortized cost (approximately $11 million) of four advisory contracts acquired from PIMCO Fund Advisors LLC in December 2002 and the unamortized cost of certain investment advisory contracts relating to the management of the Common Sense Trust Funds which were purchased in December 1997. The change in investment advisory contracts, net of accumulated amortization included in the accompanying combined statements of financial condition is attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency rates relating to investment advisory contracts of Citigroup Asset Management Australia Limited. In July 1998 the Transfer Business acquired the assets of and assumed the liabilities of the asset management business of J.P. Morgan Australia Holdings Limited for approximately $74 million and renamed it as Citigroup Asset Management Australia Limited. The acquisition was recorded under the purchase method of accounting and the remaining excess purchase price of $18 million and $17 million are included in investment advisory contracts at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively.
 
 
 
 
Mutual fund administration contracts relate to administrative services formerly provided by The Boston Company (TBC) to money market and mutual funds associated with the Shearson Acquisition. These administrative services were subsequently transferred from TBC to the Transfer Business in the third quarter of 1995. In accordance with the agreement, the Transfer Business paid TBC a portion of the administrative fees, which were based on assets under management, earned through May 2000.
 
 
The components of property, equipment and leasehold improvements that are subject to depreciation and amortization were as follows:
 
 
 
Other borrowings include short investment positions.
 
 
Comprehensive income represents the sum of net income and other changes in net assets from non-owner sources, which, for the Transfer Business, are only comprised of cumulative translation adjustments.
 
For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, the Transfer Businesses' comprehensive income is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under income tax allocation agreements with Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc., ("CGMHI"), Citibank and Citigroup, the Transfer Business's U.S. federal, state and local income taxes are provided on a separate entity basis and are subject to the utilization of tax attributes in Citigroup's consolidated income tax provision. Under the tax sharing agreement with CGMHI, the entities settle their current and deferred tax provisions with CGMHI throughout the year except for certain liabilities expected to be payable as a separate taxpayer. Under the tax sharing agreement with Citibank, the entities settle their current tax provisions with Citibank throughout the year except for certain liabilities expected to be payable as a separate taxpayer.
 
The components of income taxes reflected in the combined statements of operations are as follows:
 
 
Under SFAS No. 109, , temporary differences between recorded amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are expected to reverse.
Accounting for Income Taxes
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, the combined statements of financial condition of the Transfer Business included net deferred tax assets of $39 million and $37 million, comprised of the following:
 
 
Management believes that the realization of the recognized net deferred tax asset of $39 million is more likely than not based on existing carryback ability and expectations as to future taxable income in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Under a tax sharing agreement with Citigroup, the Transfer Business is entitled to a current benefit if it incurs losses, which are utilized in Citigroup's consolidated return. Citigroup, which has a history of strong earnings, has reported pretax financial statement income from continuing operations of approximately $24 billion, on average, over the last three years.
 
The Transfer Business paid taxes of $132 million, $140 million, and $200 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.
 
Foreign pretax earnings approximated $47 million in 2004, $63 million in 2003, and $1 million in 2002. As a U.S. corporation, Citigroup and its U.S. subsidiaries are subject to U.S. taxation currently on all foreign pretax earnings earned by a foreign branch. Pretax earnings of a foreign subsidiary or affiliate are subject to U.S. taxation when effectively repatriated. The Transfer Business provides income taxes on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries except to the extent that such earnings are indefinitely invested outside the United States. At December 31, 2004, $2 million of accumulated undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries were indefinitely invested. At the existing U.S. federal income tax rate, additional taxes of $1 million would have to be provided if such earnings were remitted currently.
 
 
 
 
The following table reconciles the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the effective tax rate of the Transfer Business:
 
 
 
Included in accrued expenses and other liabilities in the combined statements of financial condition and other operating and administrative expenses in the combined statements of operations for the period ended December 31, 2004 is a reserve for approximately $7.5 million for voluntary payments to shareholders in the Salomon Brothers International Equity Fund (the Fund). The Fund's performance was adversely impacted due to significant cash flow activity and the relatively small size of the Fund, which resulted in periods where the Fund was not fully invested in international securities. The voluntary payment represents the amount by which the performance of a shareholder's Fund share underperformed the performance of the Fund's benchmark index, the MSCI EAFE index from inception through October 22, 2004. The Fund was closed to new investors on October 25, 2004 and was liquidated on December 3, 2004.
 
During the third and fourth quarters of 2004, the Transfer Business recorded a cumulative expense reserve in the amount of approximately $184 million ($140 million after-tax), which is included in other expenses in the combined statements of operations and accrued expenses and other liabilities in the combined statement of financial condition, related to the expected resolution of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) investigation into mutual fund transfer agent matters that began in November 2003.
 
In 1999, CAM recommended that an affiliate become the transfer agent for certain mutual funds managed by CAM. The affiliate that became the transfer agent, Citicorp Trust Bank (CTB), subcontracted transfer agency work to the previous (unaffiliated) transfer agent. At the time CAM entered the business, CAM concluded a separate agreement with the sub-transfer agent that guaranteed certain benefits to CAM and its affiliates. That agreement and a one-time payment related to termination of the agreement were not disclosed to the boards of the mutual funds that approved the retention of the affiliated transfer agent.
 
 
 
 
In July 2004, the staff of the SEC indicated that it was considering recommending an enforcement proceeding against CAM and certain of its affiliates relating to the transfer agency and sub-transfer agency arrangements, including the creation and operation of this transfer agency, the compensation received by CTB and the adequacy of CAM's disclosures to the fund boards. The staff subsequently informed four individuals (none of whom remains in his or her prior position with CAM) that it was also considering similar enforcement proceedings against them. Citigroup is cooperating with the SEC in its investigation. The reserve fully covers the financial terms that the SEC staff has agreed to recommend to the SEC for resolution of this matter. The Citigroup offer of settlement is subject to final negotiation, and any settlement of this matter with the SEC will require approval by the Board of Directors of Citigroup and acceptance by the SEC.
 
In 2003 and 2004, several issues in the mutual fund industry have come under the scrutiny of federal and state regulators. The Transfer Business has received subpoenas and other requests for information from various government regulators regarding market timing, fees, sales practices and other mutual fund issues in connection with various investigations. The Transfer Business is cooperating with all such reviews.
 
In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Transfer Business and its subsidiaries or its affiliates are defendants, co-defendants or parties to various litigation and regulatory matters incidental to and typical of the businesses in which they are engaged. In the opinion of the Transfer Business management, the ultimate resolution of these legal and regulatory proceedings would not be likely to have an adverse material effect on the combined financial condition. Reserves in these matters were established, have been accrued for and have been determined to be appropriate.
 
CAM litigation and regulatory matters, which are enumerated in the Citigroup Disclosure Letter dated as of June 23, 2005, and CAM cases filed between June 23, 2005 and the date of closing, will be retained by Citigroup after the closing with Legg Mason. Citigroup will manage the defense of the cases and will be responsible for payment of legal expenses and any judgments or settlements in those matters.
 
 
The Transfer Business has related party balances with Citigroup and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates including cash accounts, receivables and payables and charges for operational support. In addition, Citigroup and certain of its subsidiaries provide accounting services, payroll, internal auditing, benefit management and administration, property management and information technology services. These related party transactions are generally conducted at prices equivalent to prices for transactions conducted at arm's length with unrelated third parties. Amounts charged for operational support represent an allocation of costs. The Transfer Business engages in various transactions with its subsidiaries that are characteristic of a combined group under common control.
 
The payable to affiliates, net represents the net intercompany relationships of the Transfer Business with Citigroup and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates. The receivables from affiliates for December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $996 million and $794 million, respectively. The payables to affiliates for December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $1,007 million and $1,006 million, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
Note payable to affiliate consists of a demand note with Citigroup Global Markets Holding Inc. (CGMHI) bearing an interest rate agreed upon by both parties (2.17% and 1.06% at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively). The note relates primarily to the funding of the Shearson Acquisition and certain deferred expenses originally paid by CGMHI relating to closed end funds sponsored by the Transfer Business.
 
 
Transfer Business operations utilize the Citigroup MIS process to report its management financial statements. Within Citigroup, MIS transactions reflect revenue and expense adjustments between Citigroup legal entities to create management based income statements by region and product type. The Transfer Business receives revenue for advisory and administrative services rendered. MIS transactions are generally at fair market value between Citigroup entities for various services provided without transfer of cash.
 
Within Citigroup, all MIS transactions eliminate in consolidation and have no impact on the consolidation of Citigroup. The combined financial statements as they have been presented here do include a number of MIS transactions between Transfer Business legal entities and all other Citigroup legal entities. Going forward, Transfer Business entities will no longer be able to utilize MIS transactions. All services rendered between Citigroup and the Transfer Business must be settled in cash.
 
As a result of moving from an MIS to a cash basis settlement of transactions, there may be certain sales tax implications for both parties. The nature and amounts of these taxes are not known at this time, but are not expected to be material to the business as a whole.
 
 
The Transfer Business participates in both a qualified, noncontributory defined benefit pension plan and a non-qualified, noncontributory defined benefit pension plan sponsored by Citigroup. The Transfer Business shares of the expenses related to these plans were allocated through the MIS process discussed above. The balances were insignificant in 2004, 2003, and 2002.
 
 
The Transfer Business provides certain healthcare and life insurance benefits for its active employees, qualifying retired U.S. and certain non-U.S. employees who reach the retirement criteria specified by various plans.
 
 
Substantially all of the Transfer Business employees are eligible to participate in a 401(k) savings plan sponsored by Citigroup. The expenses in connection with the 401(k) savings plan were insignificant in 2004, 2003, and 2002.
 
 
 
 
 
Prior to January 1, 2003, Citigroup accounted for stock-based compensation plans under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (APB 25), and related interpretations. Under APB 25, there is generally no charge to earnings for employee stock option awards because the options granted under these plans have an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the grant date. Alternatively, SFAS No. 123. (SFAS 123), allows companies to recognize compensation expense over the related service period based on grant-date fair value of the stock award. Under both methods, upon issuance of previously unissued shares under employee plans, proceeds received in excess of par value are credited to additional paid-in capital. On January 1, 2003 the Transfer Business adopted the fair value provision of SFAS 123.
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
 
The charges to income for all of these employee incentive plans were insignificant to the Transfer Business during 2004, 2003, and 2002.
 
 
The voluntary payment of approximately $7.5 million to shareholders as described in Contingencies, note 9, was made in April 2005. Additionally, the Transfer Business made a payment of $184 million ($140 million after tax) related to the resolution of the SEC investigation into the mutual fund transfer agent matter discussed in note 9 in June 2005.
 
In 2005 the Transfer Business received a Wells Notice from the SEC alleging violation of Section 19(a) and 34 (b) of the 1940 Act. Section 19(a) prohibits investment companies from making distributions from sources other than the company's undistributed net income without providing a written statement, which adequately discloses the sources of such payment. Rule 34 (b) makes it unlawful for any person to make an untrue statement of a material fact in any report filed under the 1940 Act. The Transfer Business is cooperating with the ongoing SEC investigation and cannot predict the outcome.
 
Subsequent to the Agreement and as a result of ongoing negotiations, certain businesses are anticipated to be excluded from the sale to Legg Mason. As of the date of this report, these businesses are UIT, separately managed account operations, 529 plan operations, Tailored Portfolio group, seed capital, Citi Islamic Portfolios and Citigroup Asset Management business in Indonesia. The assets associated with the UIT business and seed capital were approximately $211 million and $101 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The liabilities associated with the UIT business and seed capital were approximately $59 million and $24 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The net income associated with the UIT business and seed capital was approximately $6 million, $6 million and $7 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. The net income for the separately managed account operations, 529 plan operations and Tailored Portfolio group will not be materially impacted since these services will continue under service level agreements as more fully described in the Transaction Agreement. The net assets and net income from the Citi Islamic portfolios and CAM business in Indonesia are insignificant to the Transfer Businesses.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The accompanying combined financial statements of Citigroup Asset Management ("CAM") represent the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Citigroup Inc.'s global asset management business ("the Transfer Business") as more fully described in the Transaction Agreement ("the Agreement"), dated as of June 23, 2005, by and between Citigroup Inc. ("Citigroup") and Legg Mason, Inc. ("Legg Mason"). The Transfer Business excludes certain businesses, which were historically included in the global asset management segment. These excluded businesses are Citigroup Asset Management Argentina, Citigroup Asset Management Colombia, and Citigroup Transfer Agency business. The transaction also does not include Citigroup's asset management business in Mexico, its retirement services business in Latin America or its interest in the CitiStreet joint venture. Under the terms of the Agreement, Citigroup agreed to sell the Transfer Business to Legg Mason in exchange for the broker dealer business of Legg Mason, approximately 5,393,545 shares of Legg Mason common stock and 13.346632 shares of non-voting convertible preferred stock, which convert, upon transfer, into an aggregate of 13,346,632 shares of Legg Mason common stock, and approximately $512 million in the form of a five-year loan facility provided by Citigroup, subject to certain closing adjustments and financing arrangements. As a result of ongoing discussions and negotiations subsequent to the Agreement, it is anticipated that certain businesses included in these financial statements may be excluded from the sale to Legg Mason. Refer to Subsequent Events, note 3 for further information.
 
CAM offers a broad range of asset management products and services from global investment centers including mutual funds, closed-end funds, managed accounts, unit investment trusts ("UIT"), and variable annuities.
 
Clients include private and public retirement plans, endowments, foundations, banks, insurance companies, other corporations, government agencies, high net worth and other individuals. Clients relationships may be introduced through Smith Barney's network of Financial Consultants and other cross-marketing and distribution opportunities within the Citigroup structure, through the Asset Management Group's own sales force or through unaffiliated intermediaries.
 
The combined financial statements have been prepared as if the Transfer Business had been a stand-alone operation, though they are not necessarily representative of results had the Transfer Business operated as a stand-alone operation. For mixed use or shared entities the balances were derived using cost centers which are associated with the CAM business in the general ledger hierarchy. Where cost centers for CAM could not be specifically segregated from shared entities, all assets and liabilities from these share entities are included in the combined statements of financial condition. The payable to affiliates includes an adjustment to remove the non-CAM net income for these respective share entities. The financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Citigroup, which may be different from comparable expenses that would have been incurred, had the Transfer Business operated as a stand-alone business.
 
The combined financial statements and accompanying footnotes are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and benefits and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
 
 
 
 
The principal operations of the Transfer Business consist of providing diversified investment management services to registered investment companies, and institutional and individual investors on a discretionary basis in the United States. The Transfer Business also has operations in various foreign countries whose currencies are freely convertible into U.S. dollars. The Transfer Business receives ongoing fees from its asset management clients, generally determined as a percentage of the client's assets.
 
The operations of the Transfer Business utilize the Citigroup Management Information Systems ("MIS") process to report their management financial statements. Within Citigroup, MIS transactions are used to allocate revenue and expense adjustments between Citigroup legal entities to create management based income statements by region and product type. The Transfer Business receives allocations for their advisory and administrative services rendered. MIS transactions are generally recorded on a fair market value basis between Citigroup entities for various services provided without transfer of cash. The use of the term parent in these combined financial statements is defined as the immediate parent company to the legal entity included in the Transfer Business.
 
Significant intercompany transactions within the Transfer Business have been eliminated.
 
 
Included in accrued expenses and other liabilities in the combined statements of financial condition and other operating and administrative expenses in the combined statements of operations for the period ended December 31, 2004 is a reserve for approximately $7.5 million for voluntary payments to shareholders in the Salomon Brothers International Equity Fund ("the Fund"). The Fund's performance was adversely impacted due to significant cash flow activity and the relatively small size of the Fund, which resulted in periods where the Fund was not fully invested in international securities. The voluntary payment represents the amount by which the performance of a shareholder's Fund share underperformed the performance of the Fund's benchmark index, the MSCI EAFE index from inception through October 22, 2004. The Fund was closed to new investors on October 25, 2004 and was liquidated on December 3, 2004. The voluntary payment of approximately $7.5 million was made in April 2005.
 
During the third and fourth quarters of 2004, the Transfer Business recorded a cumulative expense reserve in the amount of approximately $184 million ($140 million after-tax), which is included in other expenses in the combined statements of operations and accrued expenses and other liabilities in the combined statement of financial condition, related to the expected resolution of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") investigation into mutual fund transfer agent matters that began in November 2003. Payment was made in June 2005.
 
In 1999, CAM recommended that an affiliate become the transfer agent for certain mutual funds managed by CAM. The affiliate that became the transfer agent, Citicorp Trust Bank ("CTB"), subcontracted transfer agency work to the previous (unaffiliated) transfer agent. At the time CAM entered the business, CAM concluded a separate agreement with the sub-transfer agent that guaranteed certain benefits to CAM and its affiliates. That agreement and a one-time payment related to termination of the agreement were not disclosed to the boards of the mutual funds that approved the retention of the affiliated transfer agent.
 
In July 2004, the staff of the SEC indicated that it was considering recommending an enforcement proceeding against CAM and certain of its affiliates relating to the transfer agency and sub-transfer agency arrangements, including the creation and operation of this transfer agency, the compensation received by CTB and the adequacy of CAM's disclosures to the fund boards. The staff subsequently informed four
 
 
 
 
 
individuals (none of whom remains in his or her prior position with CAM) that it was also considering similar enforcement proceedings against them. Citigroup is cooperating with the SEC in its investigation. The reserve fully covers the financial terms that the SEC staff has agreed to recommend to the SEC for resolution of this matter. The Citigroup offer of settlement is subject to final negotiation, and any settlement of this matter with the SEC will require approval by the Board of Directors of Citigroup and acceptance by the SEC.
 
In 2003 and 2004, several issues in the mutual fund industry have come under the scrutiny of federal and state regulators. The Transfer Business has received subpoenas and other requests for information from various government regulators regarding market timing, fees, sales practices and other mutual fund issues in connection with various investigations. The Transfer Business is cooperating with all such reviews.
 
In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Transfer Business and its subsidiaries or its affiliates are defendants, co-defendants or parties to various litigation and regulatory matters incidental to and typical of the businesses in which they are engaged. In the opinion of the Transfer Business management, the ultimate resolution of these legal and regulatory proceedings would not be likely to have an adverse material effect on the combined financial condition. Reserves in these matters were established, have been accrued for and have been determined to be appropriate.
 
CAM litigation and regulatory matters, which are enumerated in the Citigroup Disclosure Letter dated as of June 23, 2005, and CAM cases filed between June 23, 2005 and the date of closing, will be retained by Citigroup after the closing with Legg Mason. Citigroup will manage the defense of the cases and will be responsible for payment of legal expenses and any judgments or settlements in those matters.
 
 
In 2005 the Transfer Business received a Wells Notice from the SEC alleging violation of Section 19(a) and 34(b) of the 1940 Act. Section 19(a) prohibits investment companies from making distributions from sources other than the company's undistributed net income without providing a written statement, which adequately discloses the sources of such payment. Rule 34(b) makes it unlawful for any person to make an untrue statement of a material fact in any report filed under the 1940 Act. The Transfer Business is cooperating with the ongoing SEC investigation and cannot predict the outcome.
 
Subsequent to the Agreement and as a result of ongoing negotiations, certain businesses have been excluded from the sale to Legg Mason. These businesses are UIT, separately managed account operations, 529 plan operations, Tailored Portfolio group, seed capital, Citi Islamic Portfolios and Citigroup Asset Management business in Indonesia. The assets associated with UIT business and seed capital were approximately $211 million at December 31, 2004. The liabilities associated with the UIT business and seed capital were approximately $59 million at December 31, 2004. The net income associated with the UIT business and seed capital was approximately $5 million and $4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The asset and liabilities of the seed capital business were
 
 
 
 
 
excluded from the September 30, 2005 statement of financial condition since these businesses were transferred to other business groups with in Citigroup. The assets and liabilities excluded as of September 30, 2005 were $135 million and $46 million respectively. The net income for the separately managed account operations, 529 plan operations and Tailored Portfolio group will not be materially impacted since these services will continue under service level agreements as more fully described in the Transaction Agreement. The net assets and net income from the Citi Islamic portfolios and CAM business in Indonesia are insignificant to the Transfer Businesses.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma combined financial statements give effect to the acquisition by Legg Mason, Inc. ("Legg Mason") of substantially all of Citigroup's Inc.'s ("Citigroup") worldwide asset management business ("CAM") in exchange for: 1) subsidiaries that constitute Legg Mason's private client and capital markets businesses ("PC/CM"); 2) 5,393,545 newly issued shares of Legg Mason common stock; 3) 13.346632 shares of non-voting convertible preferred stock, which convert, upon transfer, into an aggregate of 13,346,632 shares of Legg Mason common stock; and 4) approximately $512 million in cash, which was funded through a $700 million five-year syndicated term loan facility arranged by Citigroup. The following unaudited pro forma combined financial statements also give effect to Legg Mason's acquisition of 80% of the outstanding equity in Permal Group Ltd ("Permal") and a concurrent reorganization in which the residual 20% of outstanding equity was converted into non-voting preference shares, resulting in Legg Mason owning 100% of the outstanding voting common stock of Permal. The aggregate consideration paid by Legg Mason at closing was $800 million, of which $200 million was in the form of 1,889,322 newly issued shares of Legg Mason Common Stock and the remainder was in cash. If Legg Mason acquires the remaining 20% ownership interest in Permal under the purchase agreement, the purchases will be made two and four years after the initial closing at prices based on Permal's net revenues. The maximum aggregate amount payable for all equity interests in Permal under the purchase agreement is $1.386 billion, with a $961 million minimum payment.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet presents the combined financial position of Legg Mason, CAM and Permal as of September 30, 2005, as if the transactions had occurred as of that date. The pro forma balance sheet is based on the historical balance sheets of Legg Mason, CAM and Permal as of September 30, 2005. The unaudited pro forma combined statements of income are presented for the twelve months ended March 31, 2005 and the six months ended September 30, 2005 as if the transactions had occurred at the beginning of each of those periods. The unaudited pro forma combined statement of income for the year ended March 31, 2005 combines the historical statement of income of Legg Mason for the twelve months then ended and the historical statements of operations of CAM and Permal for the year ended December 31, 2004. The unaudited pro forma combined statement of income for the six months ended September 30, 2005 combines the historical statements of income of Legg Mason, CAM and Permal for the six months then ended. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2005, CAM's revenues and net income were approximately $338 million and $51 million, respectively and Permal's revenues and net income were approximately $95 million and $14 million, respectively, and are excluded from the pro forma financial statements. All references to Legg Mason reflect its continuing asset management business and exclude the transferred PC/CM businesses.
 
The acquisition of Permal was effective as of November 1, 2005. The acquisition of CAM was completed on December 1, 2005. As of the date of this document, Legg Mason has not completed the detailed valuation studies necessary to arrive at the specific fair values of the CAM and Permal assets acquired and liabilities assumed. However, as indicated in Note 3 of notes to the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements, Legg Mason has estimated the fair values of the assets acquired, including identifiable intangible assets consisting of asset management contracts and trade names, and liabilities assumed. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets of CAM acquired has been reflected as goodwill. In the case of Permal, the excess of estimated fair value of the net assets acquired over cost has been recorded as a liability, pending resolution of contingent consideration specified in the purchase agreement.
 
Legg Mason has made certain pro forma adjustments to assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses as reported in CAM's historical financial statements to reflect the exclusion of certain CAM businesses in accordance with the final terms of the transaction. These excluded businesses are described in Note 11 of Notes to Citigroup Asset Management Businesses to be Transferred Combined Financial Statements as of December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 and in Note 3 of Notes to Citigroup Asset Management Businesses to be Transferred Combined Financial Statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, both of which are included in this filing. The pro forma financial statements also reflect adjustments to conform accounting policies of the acquired entities to Legg Mason's policies and reclassification of certain items to conform the presentation of the financial information.
 
The actual effect of these transactions upon Legg Mason's financial statements may differ from that reflected in these unaudited pro forma combined financial statements as a result of (i) completion of the valuation studies required to finalize the purchase price allocation and (ii) final resolution of contingent consideration for these acquisitions. There can be no assurances that the forgoing will not result in material changes.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements are provided for informational purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of the financial position or results of operations had the transactions occurred on the dates specified above, nor are they indicative of any results of operations or financial position that may occur in the future. The pro forma combined financial statements do not include integration costs, other than one-time termination benefits included in goodwill or other transactions or events that the combined entity may undertake or experience as a result of the acquisition. As such, additional restructuring charges, such as costs to rationalize and restructure our mutual funds, changes in revenue or expense levels, or cost savings, are not presented in the pro forma combined financial statements. These unaudited pro forma combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements and notes thereto of Legg Mason and CAM. Although not required by Regulation S-X to file the historical financial statements of Permal, Legg Mason has provided in a separate report on Form 8-K/A the historical financial statements of Permal as of December 31, 2004, and for the twelve months then ended. The unaudited pro forma financial statements should be read in conjunction with those historical financial statements and notes thereto.
 
 
Legg Mason, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Balance Sheet
As of September 30, 2005
(Dollars in thousands)
 
Legg Mason, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Statements of Income
For the Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2005
(Dollars in thousands)
 
Legg Mason, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Statements of Income
For the Six Months Ended September 30, 2005
(Dollars in thousands)
 
Note 1. Basis of Presentation
 
On December 1, 2005, Legg Mason completed the acquisition of substantially all of Citigroup's worldwide asset management business from Citigroup in exchange for (i) all outstanding stock of Legg Mason's subsidiaries that constitute its private client and capital markets businesses; (ii) 5,393,545 shares of Common Stock and 13.346632 shares of non-voting convertible preferred stock of Legg Mason convertible, upon transfer, into 13,346,632 shares of Common Stock and (iii) $512 million in cash (the "Transaction"). The $512 million in cash was funded by a borrowing under a $700 million, five-year syndicated term loan facility arranged by Citigroup. As a result of the Transaction, Legg Mason recognized a gain on the sale of PC/CM of approximately $1.1 billion, net of approximately $95 million in costs related to the sale, including approximately $82 million for accelerated vesting of employee stock compensation awards, in the quarter ended December 31, 2005. The after-tax gain was approximately $645 million.
 
Effective November 1, 2005, Legg Mason completed its acquisition of 80% of the outstanding equity in Permal Group Ltd. and a concurrent reorganization in which the residual 20% of outstanding equity was converted into preference shares, resulting in Legg Mason owning 100% of the outstanding voting common stock of Permal. Legg Mason has the right to purchase the remaining outstanding equity interests in Permal over the next four years and, if that right is not exercised, the holders of those equity interests have the right to require that Legg Mason purchase the interests. The aggregate consideration paid by Legg Mason at closing was $800 million, of which $200 million was in the form of 1,889,322 newly issued shares of Legg Mason Common Stock and the remainder was in cash. If Legg Mason acquires the remaining 20% ownership interest in Permal under the purchase agreement, the purchases will be made two and four years after the initial closing at prices based on Permal's net revenues. The maximum aggregate amount payable for all equity interests in Permal under the purchase agreement is $1.386 billion, with a $961 million minimum payment.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet presents the combined financial position of Legg Mason, CAM and Permal as of September 30, 2005 and assumes the transactions had taken place as of that date. The unaudited pro forma combined statements of income for the year ended March 31, 2005 present the results of operations for twelve months ended March 31, 2005 for Legg Mason and the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 for CAM and Permal and assume the transactions had taken place at the beginning of those periods. The unaudited pro forma combined statements of income for the six months ended September 30, 2005 combine the results of operations for the six months then ended for Legg Mason, CAM and Permal and assume the transactions had taken place at the beginning of that period. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2005, CAM's revenues and net income were approximately $338 million and $51 million, respectively and Permal's revenues and net income were approximately $95 million and $14 million, respectively, and are excluded from the pro forma financial statements.
Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial Statements
 
Legg Mason has made certain pro forma adjustments to assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses as reported in CAM's historical financial statements to reflect the exclusion of certain CAM businesses in accordance with the final terms of the transaction. These excluded businesses are described in Note 11 of Notes to Citigroup Asset Management Businesses to be Transferred Combined Financial Statements as of December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 and in Note 3 of Notes to Citigroup Asset Management Businesses to be Transferred Combined Financial Statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, both of which are included in this filing. The pro forma financial statements also reflect adjustments to conform accounting policies of the acquired entities to Legg Mason's policies and reclassification of certain items to conform the presentation of the financial statements. Refer to Note 3, Pro Forma Adjustments, for more information regarding these pro forma adjustments.
 
Note 2. Earnings Per Common Share
 
The pro forma combined basic and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented are based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock of Legg Mason during each applicable period, adjusted to give effect to common and convertible preferred shares issued in connection with the acquisitions (including shares contingently issuable to Permal) and changes in stock-based deferred compensation arrangements that resulted from the Transaction.
 
The following table presents the computations of pro forma basic and diluted earnings per share:
 
 
Note 3. Pro Forma Adjustments
 
The pro forma combined balance sheet has been prepared to reflect the sale of Legg Mason's PC/CM business and the acquisition of CAM and Permal for the aggregate consideration described in Note 1. Pro forma adjustments have been made to the balance sheet to reflect:
 
Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial Statements
 
The pro forma combined statements of income have been prepared as if the transactions had been completed at the beginning of the periods presented. Pro forma adjustments have been made to reflect:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


