FILE:LM/LM-8K-20080307083206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
Date: March 4, 2008
Beneficiary: Liquid Reserves Portfolio, a series of Master Portfolio Trust
Letter of Credit No. 63661032
           We refer to Letter of Credit no. 63661032 issued by Citibank, N.A. ("") in favor of you dated as of March 4, 2008 (the "") for the account of Legg Mason, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "") and related to the Securities (as defined below). Terms defined in the Letter of Credit or in the form of Drawing Certificate attached as Exhibit A thereto and not otherwise defined herein are used herein as therein defined. References herein to the Letter of Credit shall include any obligation or credit support substituted by Legg Mason that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of the form of Drawing Certificate attached as Exhibit A to the Letter of Credit.
Issuer
Letter of Credit
Applicant
           In consideration of the issuance of the Letter of Credit and our obligations in respect thereof, you hereby covenant and agree as follows:
You shall immediately terminate the Letter of Credit in accordance with the terms thereof upon the occurrence of any of the following events prior to March 3, 2009:
You have sold or otherwise disposed of all Securities, and either have not realized any loss therefrom or have made draws under the Letter of Credit as a result of such sale or disposition in an aggregate amount equal to all such losses;
All Securities have been restructured, modified, refinanced, exchanged into or replaced by new debt rated at least "P-1" (or the then equivalent grade) by Moody's (as defined below) or "A-1" (or the then equivalent grade) by S&P (as defined below) that is eligible to be held by a money market fund under Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (each such transaction, a ""), of which the aggregate principal amount, plus the amount of any cash consideration received by you in respect thereof and any amounts drawn under the Letter of Credit as a result of such transaction, is no less than the amortized cost of the Securities that were so restructured, modified, refinanced, exchanged or replaced on the date used in such Transaction to determine the amount of securities to be received in such Transaction;
Transaction
You have been repaid in full in respect of all Securities; or
The Securities are rated "P-1" (or the then equivalent grade) or higher by Moody's or "A-1" (or the then equivalent grade) or higher by S&P.
On or after the Termination Date, in the event that all of the Securities shall have been (a) sold or otherwise disposed of for cash, and/or shall have been repaid with or otherwise converted into cash or (b) restructured, modified, refinanced, exchanged into or replaced by new debt, and the sum of (i) the aggregate amount of all such cash proceeds and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of such new debt shall exceed the difference between (X) the amortized cost of the Securities so sold, disposed of, repaid, converted, restructured, modified, refinanced, exchanged or replaced less (Y) all amounts drawn under the Letter of Credit, thereupon you shall pay to the Applicant cash in the amount of such excess (i.e., the sum of clauses (i) and (ii) over the difference in clauses (X) and (Y) above); provided that such payment shall not exceed the aggregate amount drawn on the Letter of Credit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the amount drawn on the Letter of Credit pursuant to Section 2(c) or Section 2(d) of Exhibit A thereto equals or exceeds the amortized cost of all Securities then outstanding and held by you, then the previous sentence of this Section 3 shall not apply and, on the date of such drawing on the Letter of Credit, you agree to transfer to the Applicant all such Securities in consideration of such drawing under the Letter of Credit in accordance with Rule 17a-9 under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (i.e., you must receive, including amounts drawn under the Letter of Credit, the greater of the amortized cost or the fair market value of such Securities).
You agree that you will not make any drawing under the Letter of Credit unless before and after giving effect to such drawing, all the representations and warranties contained in Exhibit A to the Letter of Credit are true and correct. You further agree that, prior to your taking any action that would result in the occurrence and continuance of any of the events described in clause 2(a) or (b) of Exhibit A to the Letter of Credit, you will provide the Applicant no less than 1 business day's notice of your intention to take such action and will sell to Applicant, if Applicant elects to purchase, all Securities that are the subject of the intended action at a price equal to the greater of (i) the amortized cost of such Securities and (ii) the market value of such Securities. Provided that your Board of Trustees determines that it is in your interests to do so, you will also sell to the Applicant at any time within the 5 business days before March 3, 2009, if Applicant elects to purchase, all Securities th at are outstanding and held by you at a price equal to the greater of (i) the amortized cost of such Securities and (ii) the market value of such Securities.
Subject to the satisfaction of the conditions to drawing in the Letter of Credit and subject to the terms of this Letter Agreement, it is understood and agreed that you will exercise your rights under the Letter of Credit when you are entitled to do so.
In the event that you have received any Replacement Securities in exchange for or as a replacement of the Original Securities, which Replacement Securities are not, or have not become, "Eligible Securities" within the meaning of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, you shall, on the business day immediately prior to March 3, 2009, sell or otherwise dispose of any such Replacement Securities that you have not previously sold or otherwise disposed of.
           This letter may not be amended or any provision hereof waived or modified except by an instrument in writing signed by each of the parties hereto. THIS LETTER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. This letter may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this letter by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this letter. Section headings used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this letter and are not to affect the construction of, or to be taken into consideration in interpreting, this letter.
 
Very truly yours,
LEGG MASON, INC.
By Name: Peter L. Bain Title: Senior Executive Vice President                
/s/ Peter L. Bain               
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED
LIQUID RESERVES PORTFOLIO, a series of MASTER PORTFOLIO TRUST
By Name: Frances Guggino Title: Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer
/s/ Frances Guggino            
 
 
 
 

Investor Relations: F. Barry Bilson, 410-539-0000; Media: Mary Athridge, 212-805-6035
CONTACT:
Baltimore, Maryland -- March 7, 2008 -- Legg Mason, Inc. (NYSE: LM) announced that it has obtained a letter of credit from a large bank to provide support to a Structured Investment Vehicle (SIV) holding in a money market fund. The Company also provided an update of the combined impact on its anticipated quarterly earnings of this action as well as quarter-to-date accruals related to previously announced money market fund support.
Legg Mason is confident in the overall soundness of the funds and committed to satisfying its client objectives of principal stability, credit quality, and current income, although no guarantees can be given.
In the money market fund managed by a subsidiary, Legg Mason procured the new letter of credit to support the fund's holdings in Cheyne Finance, a UK-based SIV. The agreement provides support up to $150 million, which may be drawn in certain circumstances, including upon the fund's realizing a loss on disposition or restructuring of the position, upon the agreement's termination if unpaid amounts remain on the fund's Cheyne holding, or in certain circumstances upon ratings downgrades of the issuing bank. The letter of credit will terminate no later than March 3, 2009.
Mark R. Fetting, the Company's president and chief executive officer, commented, "This latest action is consistent with our efforts to support our money market funds in light of the current stresses in the markets. We continue to make progress in reducing the exposure of our money market funds to SIV holdings. We will continue to monitor these funds carefully, actively evaluate additional support options and may take additional action if we deem it appropriate."
Impact on Quarterly Earnings
Based on market conditions and prices as of March 5, 2008, Legg Mason has accrued a quarter-to-date non-cash charge to earnings of approximately $142 million ($59 million net of adjustments to incentive compensation and taxes, or $0.41 per diluted share), principally representing unrealized losses in the SIV securities underlying the support. This charge consists of the combined impact of the action announced today together with incremental, non-cash, mark-to-market charges attributable to previously announced money market fund support.
The Company will also file a Form 8-K with further details of this transaction.
About Legg Mason
Legg Mason is a global asset management firm, with $998 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2007. The Company provides active asset management in many major investment centers throughout the world. Legg Mason is headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland, and its common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: LM).
This release contains forward-looking statements subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, see "Risk Factors" in Legg Mason's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 and the subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
An investment in a money market fund is neither insured nor guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. Although a money market fund seeks to preserve the value of your investment at $1.00 per share, it is possible to lose money by investing in a money market fund.



