FILE:LM/LM-8K-20110126070937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                                      
 
 
 
 
 
Baltimore, Maryland  January 26, 2011  Legg Mason, Inc. (NYSE: LM) today reported its operating results for the third fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2010.  The Company reported net income of $61.6 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, as compared with $75.3 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, in the previous quarter and $44.9 million, or $0.28 per diluted share in the third quarter of fiscal 2010.  Included in this quarters results were $24.0 million or $0.10 per diluted share in transition-related costs as compared to $11.6 million, or $0.05 per diluted share of such costs in the previous quarter and $10.2 million, or $0.04 per diluted share in costs related to a closed-end fund launch.  Adjusted income for the third quarter was $110.3million, or $0.73 per diluted share, as compared to $115.0 million, or $0.76 per diluted share, in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 and $93.2 million, or $0.57 per diluted share, in the third quarter of fiscal 2010.  For the third quarter, operating revenues were $721.9 million, up 7% from $674.8 million in the prior quarter and up 5% from $690.5 million in the prior year quarter. Operating expenses of $624.9 million were up 6% from $586.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 and were up 2% from $611.3 million in the prior year quarter. The prior quarters results included a United Kingdom tax benefit of $8.9 million, or $0.06 per diluted share, and the prior years results included real estate losses of $28.3 million or $0.11 per diluted share.
1
2
 
Assets Under Management (AUM) were $671.8 billion, as compared with $673.5 billion as of September 30, 2010 and were down 1% from $681.6 billion as of December 31, 2009.
Legg Mason also announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock in the amount of $0.06 per share.
 
 
Comments on Third Fiscal Quarter 2011 Results
 
Mark R. Fetting, Chairman and CEO, said, "Legg Mason delivered solid earnings of $0.41 cents per share, up 46% from the year ago period.  Transition-related costs and expenses related to this quarters closed-end fund raise reduced EPS by $0.14 per share.   Improved operating results for the quarter reflect increased revenues related to a higher advisory fee yield, stronger performance fees, and our continuing focus on expense management. Moreover, we continued to benefit from our capital management strategy as we further reduced share count in the quarter. 
 
 
That said, we are focused on the need to address persistent outflows at some of our affiliates, and together with our affiliates, we are spending a significant amount of time in front of clients, distribution partners and prospects to address this.  In the short-term, we are seeing a secular shift in the marketplace towards more specialized products with an increased investor appetite for risk assets.  We are well positioned to take advantage of this through our fixed income, equity and alternative platforms. With improved distribution and new product innovation, improving asset mix and higher fee yields we can continue to grow our business
We are pleased that investment performance continued to improve and we are encouraged that a progressively healing economy is likely to produce additional market opportunities for investing. 
.
 
 
As we enter calendar year 2011, we remain focused on the three key strategic drivers of growth: maintaining and expanding our group of outstanding investment managers, delivering strategic value from our corporate center, and continuing to build a balanced portfolio of affiliates across asset classes, geographies and channels.  During the quarter we announced a new management structure that is aligned with, and fully engaged in supporting, these goals.  I am confident that we have built a global organization that has single purpose and direction as we take advantage of opportunities in 2011 and beyond,"
concluded Mr. Fetting.
 
 
Assets Under Management Decreased to $672 Billion
 
AUM decreased to $671.8 billion from $673.5 billion at September 30, 2010 driven by net outflows of $16.7 billionlargely offset by market appreciation of $14.8 billion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparison to the Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2011
 
Net income was $61.6 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, as compared with $75.3 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. The prior quarters results included a United Kingdom tax benefit of $8.9 million, or $0.06 per diluted share.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparison to the Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2010
 
Net income was $61.6 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, as compared with net income of $44.9 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
Quarterly Business Developments
Product
 
 
 
 
Performance
 
At December 31, 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance Sheet
At December 31, 2010, Legg Masons cash position was $1.3 billion.  Total debt was $1.4 billion and stockholders' equity was $5.8 billion.  The ratio of total debt to total capital (total equity plus total debt excluding consolidated investment vehicles) was 20%. In the quarter, the Company completed additional open market purchases of 1.2million shares.  Legg Mason repurchased and retired 12.6 million shares of common stock over the last three quarters.
 
The Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock in the amount of $0.06 per share. The dividend is payable on April 11, 2011 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 10, 2011.
 
Conference Call to Discuss Results
A conference call to discuss the Company's results, hosted by Mr. Fetting, will be held at 8:30 a.m. E.S.T. today. The call will be open to the general public. Interested participants should access the call by dialing 1-866-843-0890 (or for international calls 1-412-317-9250) and enter pin number 5154003 when prompted. Please dial in at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start to ensure connection.
The presentation slides that will be reviewed during the conference call will be available on the investor relations section of the Legg Mason website (http://ir.leggmason.com/CorporateProfile.aspx?iid=102761) shortly after the release of the financial results.
A replay or transcript of the live broadcast will be available on the Legg Mason website, in the investor relations section, or by dialing 1-877-344-7529 (or for international calls 1-412-317-0088) conference number 447346.  Please note that the replay will be available beginning at 12:00 p.m., E.S.T. on Wednesday January 26, 2011 and ending on February 10, 2011.
 
 
 
About Legg Mason
 
Legg Mason is a global asset management firm, with $672 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2010.  The Company provides active asset management in many major investment centers throughout the world. Legg Mason is headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland, and its common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: LM).
This release contains forward-looking statements subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, see "Risk Factors" and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Legg Mason's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 and the Companys quarterly reports on form 10-Q.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use of Supplemental Data as Non-GAAP Performance Measures
As supplemental information, we are providing performance measures that are based on methodologies other than generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP) for adjusted income", consolidated statements of income, excluding consolidated investment vehicles, and operating margin, as adjusted that management uses as benchmarks in evaluating and comparing the period-to-period operating performance of Legg Mason, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Adjusted Income
Adjusted Income was formerly reported as Cash Income, as Adjusted. We define adjusted income as Net income (loss) attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. plus amortization and deferred taxes related to intangible assets and goodwill, and imputed interest and tax benefits on contingent convertible debt less deferred income taxes on goodwill and indefinite-life intangible asset impairment, if any.  We also adjust for non-core items that are not reflective of our economic performance, such as impairment charges and the impact of tax rate adjustments on certain deferred tax liabilities related to indefinite-life intangible assets and goodwill, and net money market fund support losses (gains).
 
We believe that adjusted income provides a good representation of our operating performance adjusted for non-cash acquisition related items and other items that facilitate comparison of our results to the results of other asset management firms that have not issued contingent convertible debt, made significant acquisitions, or engaged in money market fund support transactions.  We also believe that adjusted income is an important metric in estimating the value of an asset management business.
Adjusted income only considers adjustments for certain items that relate to operating performance and comparability, and therefore, is most readily reconcilable to Net income attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. determined under GAAP.  This measure is provided in addition to net income, but is not a substitute for net income and may not be comparable to non-GAAP performance measures, including measures of adjusted earnings or adjusted income, of other companies. Further, adjusted income is not a liquidity measure and should not be used in place of cash flow measures determined under GAAP.  Legg Mason considers adjusted income to be useful to investors because it is an important metric in measuring the economic performance of asset management companies, as an indicator of value, and because it facilitates comparison of Legg Masons operating results with the results of other asset management firms that have not engaged in significant acquisitions, issued contingent convertible debt, or engaged in money market fund support transactions.
In calculating adjusted income we add the impact of the amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions, such as management contracts, to Net Income attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. to reflect the fact that these non-cash expenses distort comparisons of Legg Masons operating results with the results of other asset management firms that have not engaged in significant acquisitions.  Deferred taxes on indefinite-life intangible assets and goodwill includes actual tax benefits from amortization deductions that are not realized under GAAP absent an impairment charge or the disposition of the related business.  Because we actually receive these tax benefits on indefinite-life intangibles and goodwill over time, we add them to net income in the calculation of adjusted income.  Conversely, we subtract the non-cash income tax benefits on goodwill and indefinite-life intangible asset impairment charges and United Kingdom tax rate adjustments on excess book basis on certain acquired indefinite-life intangible assets that have been recognized under GAAP.  We also add back imputed interest on contingent convertible debt, which is a non-cash expense, as well as the actual tax benefits on the related contingent convertible debt that are not realized under GAAP.  We also add (subtract) other non-core items, such as net money market fund support losses (gains) (net of losses on the sale of the underlying SIV securities, if applicable). These adjustments reflect that these items distort comparisons of Legg Masons
operating results to prior periods and the results of other asset management firms that have not engaged in money market fund support transactions or significant acquisitions, including any related impairments. 
 
 
 
 
Should a disposition, impairment charge or other non-core item occur, its impact on adjusted income may distort actual changes in the operating performance or value of our firm. Also, realized losses on money market fund support transactions are reflective of changes in the operating performance and value of our firm. Accordingly, we monitor these items and their related impact, including taxes, on adjusted income to ensure that appropriate adjustments and explanations accompany such disclosures.
Although depreciation and amortization of fixed assets are non-cash expenses, we do not add these charges in calculating adjusted income because these charges are related to assets that will ultimately require replacement.
Consolidated Statements of Income, Excluding Consolidated Investment Vehicles
Effective with the April 1, 2010 adoption of a new financial accounting standard on consolidation, Legg Mason now consolidates and separately identifies certain sponsored investment vehicles, the most significant of which is a collateralized loan obligation entity.  In presenting our Consolidated Statements of Income, Excluding Consolidated Investment Vehicles, we add back the investment advisory and distribution and servicing fees that are eliminated upon the consolidation of investment vehicles and exclude the operating expenses and the impact on non-operating income (expense) and noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment vehicles.
We believe it is important to provide the Consolidated Statements of Income, Excluding Consolidated Investment Vehicles to present the underlying economic performance of our core asset management operations, which does not include the results of the investment funds that we manage but may not own all of the equity invested.  By deconsolidating the consolidated investment vehicles from the Consolidated Statements of Income, the investment advisory and distribution fees earned by Legg Mason from consolidated investment vehicles are added back to reflect our actual revenues.  Similarly the operating expenses and the impact on non-operating income (expense) and noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment vehicles are removed from the GAAP basis Statements of Income since this activity does not actually belong to Legg Mason.  The deconsolidation of the investment vehicles does not have any impact on Net Income Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. in any period presented.  The Consolidated Statements of Income, Excluding Consolidated Investment Vehicles are presented in addition to our GAAP basis Consolidated Statements of Income, but are not substitutes for the GAAP basis Consolidated Statements of Income and may not be comparable to Statements of Income presented on a non-GAAP basis of other companies.
Operating Margin, as Adjusted
We  calculate operating margin, as adjusted, by dividing (i) operating income, adjusted to exclude the impact on compensation expense of gains or losses on investments made to fund deferred compensation plans, the impact on compensation expense of gains or losses on seed capital investments by our affiliates under revenue sharing agreements, transition-related costs of streamlining our business model, income (loss) of consolidated investment vehicles and, impairment charges by (ii) our operating revenues, adjusted to add back net investment advisory fees eliminated upon consolidation of investment vehicles, less distribution and servicing expenses which we use as an approximate measure of revenues that are passed through to third parties, which we refer to as adjusted operating revenues.  The compensation items, other than transition-related costs, are removed from operating income in the calculation because they are offset by an equal amount in Other non-operating income (expense), and thus have no impact on Net Income attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. Transition-related costs and income (loss) of consolidated investment vehicles are removed from operating income in the calculation because these items are not reflective of our core asset management operations.  We use adjusted operating revenues in the calculation to show the operating margin without distribution and servicing expenses, which we use to approximate our distribution revenues that are passed through to third parties as a direct cost of selling our products, although distribution and servicing expenses may include commissions paid in connection with the launching of closed-end funds for which there is no corresponding revenue in the period.  Adjusted operating revenues also include our advisory revenues we receive from consolidated investment vehicles that are eliminated in consolidation under GAAP.  Legg Mason believes that operating margin, as adjusted, is a useful measure of our performance because it provides a measure of our core business activities excluding items that have no impact on net income and because it indicates what Legg Masons operating margin would have been without the distribution revenues that are passed through to third parties as a direct cost of selling our products, transition-related costs, and the impact of the consolidation of certain investment vehicles described above.  The consolidation of these investment vehicles does not have an impact to Net income attributable to Legg Mason, Inc.  This measure is provided in addition to the Companys operating margin calculated under GAAP, but is not a substitute for calculations of margins under GAAP and may not be comparable to non-GAAP performance measures, including measures of adjusted margins of other companies.
 



