FILE:LM/LM-8K-20121026071022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
SIGNATURES
LEGG MASON, INC.
EXHIBIT INDEX

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
    
LEGG MASON REPORTS RESULTS FOR SECOND FISCAL QUARTER 2013
-- Second Quarter Net Income of $80.8 Million, or $0.60 per Diluted Share --
-- Second Quarter Adjusted Income of $100.1 Million, or $0.75 per Diluted Share --
-- Assets Under Management of $651 Billion --
Baltimore, Maryland - October 26, 2012 - Legg Mason, Inc. (NYSE: LM) today reported its operating results for the second fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2012. The Company reported net income
1
of $80.8 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, as compared with a net loss of $9.5 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, in the previous quarter and net income of $56.7 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, in the second quarter of fiscal 2012. Included in this quarter's results was a U.K. tax benefit of $18.1 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, compared with a similar U.K. tax benefit of $18.3 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, in the prior year quarter. Included in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 was a $69.0 million, or $0.32 per diluted share, debt extinguishment charge. Adjusted income
2
for the second quarter was $100.1 million, or $0.75 per diluted share, as compared to $88.6 million, or $0.64 per diluted share, in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and $87.6 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, in the second quarter of fiscal 2012. For the second quarter, operating revenues were $640.3 million, up 2% from $630.7 million in the prior quarter and down 4% from $669.9 million in the prior year quarter. Operating expenses of $560.6
million were up 1% from $554.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and were down slightly from $563.0 million in the prior year quarter.
Assets Under Management (AUM) were $650.7 billion, up 3% as compared with $631.8 billion as of June 30, 2012 and up 6% from $611.8 billion as of September 30, 2011.
Legg Mason also announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock in the amount of $0.11 per share.
Comments on the Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2013 Results
Joseph A. Sullivan, Interim CEO of Legg Mason, said, Legg Mason reported higher revenues and solid earnings, buoyed by improved markets. Investment performance versus benchmarks remained strong across all key measurement periods. Overall, Legg Mason reported modest net inflows for the quarter, driven by liquidity assets as many investors continued to seek a safe haven. In the quarter, we repurchased 3.6 million shares of stock under our recently authorized share repurchase program and we will continue to look for ways to return capital to shareholders as appropriate.
As we move forward, we are looking to identify additional opportunities to grow revenues, expand market share and improve earnings leverage. We remain focused on achieving consistent long-term inflows to capitalize on the strong investment performance of our key affiliates. Finally, we will continue to evolve our retail sales model to capture opportunities that we see in the U.S. and internationally and remain committed to supporting our investment affiliates on the institutional side.
Assets Under Management Increased to $650.7 Billion
AUM increased to $650.7 billion compared with $631.8 billion at June 30, 2012, driven by market appreciation of $20.7 billion and net client inflows of $0.2
billion, which more than offset dispositions of $2.0 billion. AUM was up 6% from $611.8 billion as of September 30, 2011.
Comparison to the First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2013
Net income was $80.8 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, as compared to a net loss of $9.5 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. This quarter's results included a United Kingdom tax benefit of $18.1 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, while last quarter's results included
a non-operating charge of $69.0 million, or $0.32 per diluted share, arising from the extinguishment of debt during that quarter.
The current quarter included $1.0 million in gains associated with consolidated investment vehicles as compared to $3.0 million in losses in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. The consolidation of investment vehicles has no impact on net income (loss) as the effects of consolidation are fully attributable to noncontrolling interests.
Comparison to the Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2012
Net income was $80.8 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $56.7 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2012. Both quarter's results included a United Kingdom tax benefit of approximately $18 million, or $0.13 per diluted share.
Quarterly Business Developments
Product
Performance
At September 30, 2012:
Balance Sheet
At September 30, 2012, Legg Mason's cash position was $0.9 billion. Total debt was $1.2 billion and stockholders' equity was $5.5
billion. The ratio of total debt to total capital (total equity plus total debt excluding consolidated investment vehicles) was 17%, in line with the prior quarter. In the quarter, the Company completed additional open market purchases of 3.6
million shares, which reduced weighted average shares by 1.5 million.
The Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock in the amount of $0.11 per share. The dividend is payable on January 7, 2013 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 12, 2012.
Conference Call to Discuss Results
A conference call to discuss the Company's results, hosted by Mr. Sullivan, will be held at 8:00 am EDT today. The call will be open to the general public. Interested participants should access the call by dialing 1-800-447-0521 (or for international calls 1-847-413-3238), confirmation number 33535698 at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start to ensure connection.
The presentation slides that will be reviewed during the conference call will be available on the Investor Relations section of the Legg Mason website (
http://ir.leggmason.com/CorporateProfile.aspx?iid=102761
) shortly after the release of the financial results.
A replay of the live broadcast will be available on the Legg Mason website, in the Investor Relations section, or by dialing 1-888-843-7419 (or for international calls 1-630-652-3042), enter pass code 33535698# when prompted. Please note that the replay will be available beginning at 12:00 p.m. EDT on Friday October 26, 2012 and ending at 11:59 p.m. EST on November 9, 2012.
About Legg Mason
Legg Mason is a global asset management firm, with $651 billion in assets under management as of September 30, 2012. The Company provides active asset management in many major investment centers throughout the world. Legg Mason is headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland, and its common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: LM).
This release contains forward-looking statements subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, see "Risk Factors" and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Legg Mason's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 and in the Company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Use of Supplemental Data as Non-GAAP Performance Measures
As supplemental information, we are providing performance measures that are based on methodologies other than generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP) for Adjusted Income and Operating Margin, as Adjusted that management uses as benchmarks in evaluating and comparing our period-to-period operating performance.
Adjusted Income
We define Adjusted Income as Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc., plus amortization and deferred taxes related to intangible assets and goodwill, imputed interest and tax benefits on contingent convertible debt less deferred income taxes on goodwill and indefinite-life intangible asset impairment, if any. We also adjust for other non-core items that are not reflective of our economic performance, such as the impact of tax rate adjustments on certain deferred tax liabilities related to indefinite-life intangible assets, and loss on extinguishment of contingent convertible debt.
We believe that Adjusted Income provides a useful representation of our operating performance adjusted for non-cash acquisition related items and other items that facilitate comparison of our results to the results of other asset management firms that have not issued/extinguished contingent convertible debt or made significant acquisitions. We also believe that Adjusted Income is an important metric in estimating the value of an asset management business.
Adjusted Income only considers adjustments for certain items that relate to operating performance and comparability, and therefore, is most readily reconcilable to Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. determined under GAAP. This measure is provided in addition to Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc., but is not a substitute for Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. and may not be comparable to non-GAAP performance measures, including measures of adjusted earnings or adjusted income, of other companies. Further, Adjusted Income is not a liquidity measure and should not be used in place of cash flow measures determined under GAAP. We consider Adjusted Income to be useful to investors because it is an important metric in measuring the economic performance of asset management companies, as an indicator of value, and because it facilitates comparison of our operating results with the results of other asset management firms that have not issued/extinguished contingent convertible debt or made significant acquisitions.
In calculating Adjusted Income, we add the impact of the amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions, such as management contracts, to Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. to reflect the fact that these non-cash expenses distort comparisons of our operating results with the results of other asset management firms that have not engaged in significant acquisitions. Deferred taxes on indefinite-life intangible assets and goodwill include actual tax benefits from amortization deductions that are not realized under GAAP absent an impairment charge or the disposition of the related business.  Because we fully expect to realize the economic benefit of the current period tax amortization, we add this benefit to Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. in the calculation of Adjusted Income.  However, because of our net operating loss carry-forward, we will receive the benefit of the current tax amortization over time. Conversely, we subtract the non-cash income tax benefits on goodwill and indefinite-life intangible asset impairment charges and United Kingdom tax rate adjustments on excess book basis on certain acquired indefinite-life intangible assets, if applicable, that have been recognized under GAAP. We also add back non-cash imputed interest and the extinguishment loss on contingent convertible debt adjusted for amounts allocated to the conversion feature, as well as adding the actual tax benefits on the imputed interest that are not realized under GAAP. These adjustments reflect that these items distort comparisons of Legg Mason's operating results to prior periods and the results of other asset management firms that have not engaged in significant acquisitions, including any related impairments, or issued/extinguished contingent convertible debt. 
Should a disposition, impairment charge or other non-core item occur, its impact on Adjusted Income may distort actual changes in the operating performance or value of our firm. Accordingly, we monitor these items and their related impact, including taxes, on Adjusted Income to ensure that appropriate adjustments and explanations accompany such disclosures.
Although depreciation and amortization of fixed assets are non-cash expenses, we do not add these charges in calculating Adjusted Income because these charges are related to assets that will ultimately require replacement.
Operating Margin, as Adjusted
We calculate Operating Margin, as Adjusted, by dividing (i) Operating Income, adjusted to exclude the impact on compensation expense of gains or losses on investments made to fund deferred compensation plans, the impact on compensation expense of gains or losses on seed capital investments by our affiliates under revenue sharing agreements, transition-related costs of streamlining our business model, income (loss) of consolidated investment vehicles and, impairment charges by (ii) our operating revenues, adjusted to add back net investment advisory fees eliminated upon consolidation of investment vehicles, less distribution and servicing expenses which we use as an approximate measure of revenues that are passed through to third parties, which we refer to as Operating Revenues, as Adjusted.  The compensation items, other than transition-related costs, are removed from Operating Income in the calculation because they are offset by an equal amount in Other non-operating income (expense), and thus have no impact on Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc.  Transition-related costs and income (loss) of consolidated investment vehicles are removed from Operating Income in the calculation because these items are not reflective of our core asset management operations. We use Operating Revenues, as Adjusted in the calculation to show the operating margin without distribution and servicing expenses, which we use to approximate our distribution revenues that are passed through to third parties as a direct cost of selling our products, although distribution and servicing expenses may include commissions paid in connection with the launching of closed-end funds for which there is no corresponding revenue in the period. Operating Revenues, as Adjusted also includes our advisory revenues we receive from consolidated investment vehicles that are eliminated in consolidation under GAAP. 
We believe that Operating Margin, as Adjusted, is a useful measure of our performance because it provides a measure of our core business activities excluding items that have no impact on Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. and because it indicates what Legg Mason's operating margin would have been without the distribution revenues that are passed through to third parties as a direct cost of selling our products, transition-related costs, and the impact of the consolidation of certain investment vehicles described above. The consolidation of these investment vehicles does not have an impact on Net income (Loss) Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc.  This measure is provided in addition to the Company's operating margin calculated under GAAP, but is not a substitute for calculations of margins under GAAP and may not be comparable to non-GAAP performance measures, including measures of adjusted margins of other companies.



