FILE:LM/LM-8K-20120914172721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
.
Resignation of Mark R. Fetting as President and CEO, Board Member and Chairman of the Board
On September 10, 2012, Mark R. Fetting, President and Chief Executive Officer of Legg Mason, Inc. (the ), a member of the Board of Directors (the ) and Chairman of the Board, notified the Board of his intention to step down from these positions, effective October 1, 2012.  From that date until December 31, 2012, Mr. Fetting will serve as a consultant and render consulting services to the Company.
Company
Board
.
Appointment of Joseph A. Sullivan as Interim CEO
In connection with Mr. Fettings stepping down, the Board has appointed, effective October 1, 2012, Joseph A. Sullivan
, age 5
4
,
as
Interim
Chief Executive Officer, pending the appointment of a
permanent
Chief Executive Officer or until otherwise
determined
by the Board.  Before being appointed as
Interim
Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sullivan
overs
aw
the global distribution operations of the Company.  He was elected
Senior Executive Vice President of
the Company
in
September 2008 and until January 2011 was responsible for overseeing administrative functions as Chief Administrative Officer. From December 2005 to September 2008 he was responsible for overseeing the fixed income capital markets operations of
Stifel
Nicolaus
, a broker-dealer. From 1993 to December 2005 he oversaw the fixed income capital markets operations of Legg Mason Wood Walker,
the Company
's broker-dealer subsidiary that was sold in December 2005.
 
In connection with his appointment a
s
Interim
Chief Executive Officer,
Mr. Sullivan
received a restricted stock grant as
discussed
below
and an increase in his a
nnual base salary to $500,000.
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Named Executive Officers.
On September 10, 2012, the Company, in order to retain and motivate the named executive officers listed below, made restricted stock grants to them as follows:
1
The restricted shares will vest in full on March 31, 2014, subject to the executives continued employment on such date.  Should the executive be terminated without cause or terminate his employment for good reason, 100% of the restricted shares will vest.  Should the executive be terminated due to death or disability, a pro-rata  portion of the restricted shares will vest based on the period of service during the vesting period with the remainder of the Restricted Shares being forfeited.  If the executives employment terminates for any other reason, the restricted shares will be forfeited.
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3


