FILE:LM/LM-8K-20120501073006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
SIGNATURES
LEGG MASON, INC.
EXHIBIT INDEX

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
    
    
LEGG MASON REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FISCAL YEAR-END RESULTS
-- Fourth Quarter Net Income of $76 Million, or $0.54 per Diluted Share --
-- Fourth Quarter Adjusted Income of $124 Million, or $0.88 per Diluted Share --
-- Assets Under Management of $643 Billion --
-- Board Increases Quarterly Dividend to $0.11 per Share --
Baltimore, Maryland - May 1, 2012 - Legg Mason, Inc. (NYSE: LM) today reported its operating results for the fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. The Company reported net income
1
of $76.1 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, as compared with $28.1 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, in the previous quarter and $69.0 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Included in this quarter's results were $1.9 million or $0.01 per diluted share, in transition-related costs, as compared to $42.3 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, of such costs in the previous quarter, and $15.7 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Adjusted income
2
for the fourth quarter was $123.6 million or $0.88 per diluted share, as compared to $76.8 million, or $0.55 per diluted share in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and $117.7 million, or $0.77 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. For the fourth quarter, operating revenues were $648.6 million, up 3% from $627.0 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and down 9% from $713.4 million in the prior year quarter. Operating expenses of $576.4 million were up 2% from $567.7 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and were down 6% from $614.3 million in the prior year quarter.
Net income for fiscal year 2012 was $220.8 million or $1.54 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $253.9 million, or $1.63 per diluted share for fiscal year 2011. Adjusted income for the year was $397.0 million, or $2.77 per diluted share, compared to adjusted income of $439.2 million, or $2.83 per diluted share for fiscal year 2011. Total operating revenues for fiscal year 2012 were $2.7 billion, down 4% from $2.8 billion for fiscal year 2011. For the fiscal year 2012, operating expenses were $2.3 billion, down 3% from $2.4 billion in fiscal year 2011.
Assets Under Management (AUM) were $643.3 billion, up 3% from $627.0 billion as of December 31, 2011 and down 5% from $677.6 billion at fiscal year-end 2011.
Comments on the Fourth Quarter of Fiscal Year 2012 Results
Mark Fetting, Chairman and CEO said,
With the close of fiscal year 2012, Legg Mason completed its streamlining plan, generating over $140 million in annual cost savings, and returned over $440 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.  Our affiliates continued to generate strong investment performance, particularly in the critical 3-year time period and provided their clients with high quality customer service.  The efforts of both our global distribution team and our affiliates have resulted in significantly reduced long-term outflows and our client facing teams are building momentum in new product categories.  Legg Mason enters fiscal year 2013 with a strong and flexible balance sheet.  This financial strength not only allows us to confidently invest in growing the business by seeding new products and filling gaps in our product set through lift-outs, bolt-ons and targeted acquisitions but affords us the opportunity to deploy capital through share repurchases and dividends.  We believe these efforts will position Legg Mason to reward shareholders over the long run.
Assets Under Management Increased to $643.3
Billion
AUM increased to $643.3 billion compared with $627.0 billion at December 31, 2011, driven by $24.4 billion in market appreciation, partially offset by net client outflows of $4.9 billion and dispositions of $3.2 billion. AUM was down 5% from $677.6 billion as of March 31, 2011.
Comparison to the Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2012
Net income was $76.1 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, as compared with $28.1 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2012. This quarter's results include tax benefits associated with the restructuring of a foreign subsidiary, partially offset by adjustments to the net value of certain deferred tax assets, totaling $4.7 million, or $0.03 per diluted share.
The prior quarter's results included $42.3 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, in transition-related costs.
noncontrolling interests. The quarter also included gains of $7.5 million on the sale of a small Wealth Manager and $8.6 million related to an assigned bankruptcy claim.
Comparison to the Fourth Quarter of Fiscal Year 2011
Net income was $76.1 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, as compared with $69.0 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. This quarter's results included transition-related costs of $1.9 million, compared to $15.7 million of such costs in the prior year quarter.
Comparison to Full Year Fiscal 2011
Net income was $220.8 million, or $1.54 per diluted share, as compared with $253.9 million, or $1.63 per diluted share, for fiscal year 2011.
offset by the $71.8 million affiliate reimbursement step-down previously discussed. Total transition-related costs for fiscal 2012 were $73.1 million compared to $54.4 million of such costs in fiscal 2011.
Quarterly Business Developments
Product
Performance
At March 31, 2012:
Balance Sheet
At March 31, 2012, Legg Mason's cash position was $1.4 billion. Total debt was $1.4 billion and stockholders' equity was $5.7
billion. The ratio of total debt to total capital (total equity plus total debt excluding consolidated investment vehicles) was 20%.
The Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock in the amount of $0.11 per share. The dividend is payable July 9, 2012 to shareholders of record at the close of business on June 12, 2012.
Conference Call to Discuss Results
A conference call to discuss the Company's results, hosted by Mr. Fetting, will be held at 8:30 am EDT today. The call will be open to the general public. Interested participants should access the call by dialing 1-877-269-7756 (or for international calls 1-201-689-7817) at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start to ensure connection.
The presentation slides that will be reviewed during the conference call will be available on the Investor Relations section of the Legg Mason website (
http://ir.leggmason.com/CorporateProfile.aspx?iid=102761
) shortly after the release of the financial results.
A replay or transcript of the live broadcast will be available on the Legg Mason website, in the investor relations section, or by dialing 1-877-660-6853 (or for international calls 1-201-612-7415), enter account number 369 followed by PIN number 391485 when prompted. Please note that the replay will be available beginning at 12:00 p.m. EDT on Tuesday, May 1, 2012 and ending at 11:59 PM on May 15, 2012.
About Legg Mason
Legg Mason is a global asset management firm, with $643 billion in assets under management as of March 31, 2012. The Company provides active asset management in many major investment centers throughout the world. Legg Mason is headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland, and its common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: LM).
This release contains forward-looking statements subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, see "Risk Factors" and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Legg Mason's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 and in the Company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Use of Supplemental Data as Non-GAAP Performance Measures
As supplemental information, we are providing performance measures that are based on methodologies other than generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP) for Consolidated Statements of Income, Excluding Consolidated Investment Vehicles, Adjusted Income, and Operating Margin, As Adjusted that management uses as benchmarks in evaluating and comparing the period-to-period operating performance of Legg Mason, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Consolidated Statements of Income, Excluding Consolidated Investment Vehicles
In accordance with financial accounting standards on consolidation, Legg Mason consolidates and separately identifies certain sponsored investment vehicles, the most significant of which is a collateralized loan obligation entity. In presenting our Consolidated Statements of Income, Excluding Consolidated Investment Vehicles, we add back the investment advisory and distribution and servicing fees that are eliminated upon the consolidation of investment vehicles and exclude the operating expenses and the impact on non-operating income (expense) and noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment vehicles.
We believe it is important to provide the Consolidated Statements of Income, Excluding Consolidated Investment Vehicles to present the underlying economic performance of our core asset management operations, which does not include the results of the investment funds that we manage but may not own all of the equity invested. By deconsolidating the consolidated investment vehicles from the Consolidated Statements of Income, the investment advisory and distribution fees earned by Legg Mason from consolidated investment vehicles are added back to reflect our actual revenues. Similarly, the operating expenses and the impact on non-operating income (expense) and noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment vehicles are removed from the GAAP basis Consolidated Statements of Income since this activity does not actually belong to Legg Mason. The deconsolidation of the investment vehicles does not have any impact on Net Income Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. in any period presented. The Consolidated Statements of Income, Excluding Consolidated Investment Vehicles are presented in addition to our GAAP basis Consolidated Statements of Income, but are not substitutes for the GAAP basis Consolidated Statements of Income and may not be comparable to Statements of Income presented on a non-GAAP basis of other companies.
Adjusted Income
We define Adjusted Income as Net Income Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc., plus amortization and deferred taxes related to intangible assets and goodwill, and imputed interest and tax benefits on contingent convertible debt less deferred income taxes on goodwill and indefinite-life intangible asset impairment, if any. We also adjust for other non-core items that are not reflective of our economic performance, such as the impact of tax rate adjustments on certain deferred tax liabilities related to indefinite-life intangible assets, and net money market fund support losses (gains).
We believe that Adjusted Income provides a useful representation of our operating performance adjusted for non-cash acquisition related items and other items that facilitate comparison of our results to the results of other asset management firms that have not issued contingent convertible debt, made significant acquisitions, or engaged in money market fund support transactions. We also believe that Adjusted Income is an important metric in estimating the value of an asset management business.
Adjusted Income only considers adjustments for certain items that relate to operating performance and comparability, and therefore, is most readily reconcilable to Net Income Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. determined under GAAP. This measure is provided in addition to Net Income Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc., but is not a substitute for Net Income Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. and may not be comparable to non-GAAP performance measures, including measures of adjusted earnings or adjusted income, of other companies. Further, Adjusted Income is not a liquidity measure and should not be used in place of cash flow measures determined under GAAP. We consider Adjusted Income to be useful to investors because it is an important metric in measuring the economic performance of asset management companies, as an indicator of value, and because it facilitates comparison of our operating results with the results of other asset management firms that have not issued contingent convertible debt, made significant acquisitions, or engaged in money market fund support transactions.
In calculating Adjusted Income, we add the impact of the amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions, such as management contracts, to Net Income Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. to reflect the fact that these non-cash
expenses distort comparisons of our operating results with the results of other asset management firms that have not engaged in significant acquisitions. Deferred taxes on indefinite-life intangible assets and goodwill include actual tax benefits from amortization deductions that are not realized under GAAP absent an impairment charge or the disposition of the related business.  Because we fully expect to realize the economic benefit of the current period tax amortization, we add this benefit to Net Income Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. in the calculation of Adjusted Income.  However, because of our net operating loss carry forward, we will receive the benefit of the current tax amortization over time. Conversely, we subtract the non-cash income tax benefits on goodwill and indefinite-life intangible asset impairment charges and United Kingdom tax rate adjustments on excess book basis on certain acquired indefinite-life intangible assets, if applicable, that have been recognized under GAAP. We also add back imputed interest on contingent convertible debt, which is a non-cash expense, as well as the actual tax benefits on the related contingent convertible debt that are not realized under GAAP. We also add (subtract) other non-core items, such as net money market fund support losses (gains) (net of losses on the sale of the underlying structured investment vehicle securities, if applicable). These adjustments reflect that these items distort comparisons of Legg Mason's operating results to prior periods and the results of other asset management firms that have not engaged in money market fund support transactions or significant acquisitions, including any related impairments. 
Should a disposition, impairment charge or other non-core item occur, its impact on Adjusted Income may distort actual changes in the operating performance or value of our firm. Also, realized losses on money market fund support transactions are reflective of changes in the operating performance and value of our firm. Accordingly, we monitor these items and their related impact, including taxes, on Adjusted Income to ensure that appropriate adjustments and explanations accompany such disclosures.
Although depreciation and amortization of fixed assets are non-cash expenses, we do not add these charges in calculating Adjusted Income because these charges are related to assets that will ultimately require replacement.
Operating Margin, As Adjusted
We calculate Operating Margin, As Adjusted, by dividing (i) Operating Income, adjusted to exclude the impact on compensation expense of gains or losses on investments made to fund deferred compensation plans, the impact on compensation expense of gains or losses on seed capital investments by our affiliates under revenue sharing agreements, transition-related costs of streamlining our business model, income (loss) of consolidated investment vehicles and, impairment charges by (ii) our operating revenues, adjusted to add back net investment advisory fees eliminated upon consolidation of investment vehicles, less distribution and servicing expenses which we use as an approximate measure of revenues that are passed through to third parties, which we refer to as Operating Revenues, as Adjusted.  The compensation items, other than transition-related costs, are removed from Operating Income in the calculation because they are offset by an equal amount in Other non-operating income (expense), and thus have no impact on Net Income Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc.  Transition-related costs and income (loss) of consolidated investment vehicles are removed from Operating Income in the calculation because these items are not reflective of our core asset management operations. We use Operating Revenues, as Adjusted in the calculation to show the operating margin without distribution and servicing expenses, which we use to approximate our distribution revenues that are passed through to third parties as a direct cost of selling our products, although distribution and servicing expenses may include commissions paid in connection with the launching of closed-end funds for which there is no corresponding revenue in the period. Operating Revenues, as Adjusted also includes our advisory revenues we receive from consolidated investment vehicles that are eliminated in consolidation under GAAP. 
We believe that Operating Margin, As Adjusted, is a useful measure of our performance because it provides a measure of our core business activities excluding items that have no impact on Net Income Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc. and because it indicates what Legg Mason's operating margin would have been without the distribution revenues that are passed through to third parties as a direct cost of selling our products, transition-related costs, and the impact of the consolidation of certain investment vehicles described above. The consolidation of these investment vehicles does not have an impact on Net income Attributable to Legg Mason, Inc.  This measure is provided in addition to the Company's operating margin calculated under GAAP, but is not a substitute for calculations of margins under GAAP and may not be comparable to non-GAAP performance measures, including measures of adjusted margins of other companies.



