FILE:LM/LM-8K-20120523173011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(410) 539-0000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On May 23, 2012, Legg Mason completed the repurchase of all of its 2.50% convertible senior notes due 2015 (the "2.50% Convertible Senior Notes") pursuant to a note exchange agreement, dated as of May 16, 2012 (the "Note Exchange Agreement"), among Legg Mason, the holders of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. ("KKR"), for limited purposes. The repurchase of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes was made in connection with Legg Mason's recently announced capital plan.
Legg Mason repurchased the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes for (i) cash in an amount equal to the principal amount of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest on such notes since January 15, 2012, (ii) a prepayment fee of $6.25 million and (iii) the issuance of warrants (the "warrants") to KKR I-L Limited, a fund managed by KKR, at the direction of the holders of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes.
The warrants were issued pursuant to a warrant agreement, dated May 23, 2012 (the "Warrant Agreement"), between Legg Mason and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as warrant agent, and have terms similar to the conversion option under the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes. The Warrant Agreement provides the warrant holders with the right to purchase from Legg Mason approximately 14.2 million shares of Legg Mason common stock (in the aggregate) at an exercise price of $88 per share (which is subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments) in a net share settlement (as described below). Warrant holders who exercise their warrants in connection with certain make-whole events, as set forth in the Warrant Agreement, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the number of shares to be delivered upon exercise of a warrant. Upon exercise of the warrants, Legg Mason may deliver, at its option, either shares of its common stock (and cash in lieu of fractional shares) or cash (in lieu of any shares of its common stock), in each case, with a value equal to the product of (i) the difference between the market price of Legg Mason common stock and the $88 per share exercise price and (ii) the 14.2 million shares of Legg Mason common stock underlying the warrants, all as calculated in accordance with the Warrant Agreement. The warrants can be exercised by a holder at any time and from time to time and expire on July 15, 2017. The warrants were issued pursuant to an exemption from registration set forth in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The warrants have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements. A copy of the Warrant Agreement (including the form of warrant) is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with the issuance of the warrants, Legg Mason entered into a registration rights agreement dated as of May 23, 2012 (the "Warrants Registration Rights Agreement"), with KKR I-L Limited, pursuant to which Legg Mason has agreed to (1) file a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") covering resales of the warrants and the underlying shares of Legg Mason common stock deliverable upon exercise of the warrants within 90 days after the date of the repurchase of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes; and (2) use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the
shelf registration statement to become effective under the Securities Act within 180 days after the date of the repurchase of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes. Subject to certain blackout periods that, with certain limited exceptions, do not exceed an aggregate of 60 days in any 90-day period or an aggregate of 120 days in any 360-day period, Legg Mason has agreed to use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep the shelf registration statement effective until the earlier of (1) the date on which all of the warrants and any shares of Legg Mason common stock delivered upon exercise of the warrants cease to be registrable securities, as defined in the Warrants Registration Rights Agreement; and (2) October 13, 2017. A copy of the Warrants Registration Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with the execution of the Note Exchange Agreement and the Warrant Agreement, Legg Mason and KKR entered into an amended and restated standstill agreement on May 23, 2012 (the "Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement"), whereby, with certain exceptions, KKR agreed to continue to not take certain actions with respect to Legg Mason. The Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement amended and restated the standstill agreement, dated as of January 14, 2008, between KKR and Legg Mason. A copy of the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the terms of the Note Exchange Agreement, each of (i) the note purchase agreement for the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes, dated as of January 14, 2008 (the "Note Purchase Agreement"), as amended, among Legg Mason, KKR and the purchasers named therein, pursuant to which the 2.5% Convertible Notes were sold Legg Mason agreed to certain financial covenants, and (ii) the registration rights agreement, dated as of January 31, 2008 (the "2008 Registration Rights Agreement"), among Legg Mason, KKR I-L Limited, Credit Suisse International and HSBC Bank USA, N.A., pursuant to which Legg Mason agreed to file and maintain a shelf registration statement with the SEC with respect to the 2.5% Convertible Notes was terminated on May 23, 2012.
Additionally, in connection with Legg Mason's repurchase of the 2.50% Senior Convertible Notes, Scott C. Nuttall, who has been a director of Legg Mason since January 2008, resigned from the board effective as of May 23, 2012. Mr. Nuttall is a member of the general partner of KKR. Mr. Nuttall was nominated to serve on Legg Mason's board of directors pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, which was terminated upon consummation of the repurchase of the 2.50% Senior Convertible Notes pursuant to the terms of the Note Exchange Agreement.
The foregoing descriptions of the Warrant Agreement, Warrants Registration Rights Agreement and Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to Warrant Agreement, Warrants Registration Rights Agreement, and Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, which are filed as exhibits hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Information required by Item 1.02 is contained in Item 1.01 of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
In addition, by repurchasing of all of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes on May 23, 2012, Legg Mason effectively discharged all of its obligations under the indenture for the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes, dated as of January 31, 2008 (the "Convertible Notes Indenture"), by and between Legg Mason and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee.
In connection with the issuance of the 2.50% Senior Convertible Notes, Legg Mason entered into two convertible note hedge transactions with each of four counterparties which, in aggregate, effectively increased the exercise price under the 2.50% Senior Convertible Notes from $88 per share to $107.46 per share. Legg Mason and the counterparties to these transactions have terminated each of the convertible note hedge transactions as of May 23, 2012. As part of this termination, Legg Mason and the four counterparties terminated (effective as of May 23, 2012) all of the purchased call options with respect to shares of Legg Mason common stock (the "Purchased Call Options") entered into on January 14, 2008, in connection with the issuance of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes, with each of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Bank of America, N.A. (collectively, the "Hedge Providers"). The Purchased Call Options constituted one portion of the convertible note hedge transactions and were exercisable solely in connection with conversions of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes in the event that the market value per share of Legg Mason's common stock at the time of exercise was greater than the exercise price of the Purchased Call Options.
As part of the termination of the convertible note hedge transactions, Legg Mason and the Hedge Providers also agreed to terminate the warrants (the "2008 Warrants") sold to the Hedge Providers on January 14, 2008, to purchase in the aggregate 14,204,500 shares of Legg Mason common stock, subject to customary adjustments, on a net share-settled basis and with an exercise price of $107.46 per share of Legg Mason common stock. The 2008 Warrants were issued in connection with the issuance of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes and the Purchased Call Options and were set to expire in ratable portions on a series of expiration dates commencing after the maturity date of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes.
The parties agreed to terminate the Purchased Call Options and the 2008 Warrants at no cost to Legg Mason.
Each of the counterparties to the Purchased Call Options, 2008 Warrants, the Note Purchase Agreement and the 2008 Registration Rights Agreement are full service financial institutions that may perform, and have in the past performed, commercial banking, investment banking and advisory services for Legg Mason from time to time for which they may receive or have received customary fees and reimbursement of expenses.
Information required by Item 3.02 is contained in Item 1.01 of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The warrants and the underlying shares of Legg Mason common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This Report does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful.
Information required by Item 3.03 is contained in Item 1.01 of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Additionally, upon repurchase of all of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes, Legg Mason effectively discharged, as of May 23, 2012, all of its obligations to and rights of the holders of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes under the Convertible Notes Indenture, including the right of such holders to receive any additional payment of principal or interest on the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes or to convert the notes into an equity ownership interest in Legg Mason.
On May 23, 2012, Mr. Scott Nuttall resigned from the board of directors of Legg Mason, effective that same day.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 4.1
                    WARRANT AGREEMENT, dated as of May 23, 2012 (this ""), between LEGG MASON, INC., a Maryland corporation (including any successor thereto, the ""), and AMERICAN STOCK TRANSFER & TRUST COMPANY, LLC, a New York limited liability trust company, as Warrant Agent (including any successor thereto, the "").
Agreement
Company
Warrant Agent
          WHEREAS, pursuant to a Note Exchange Agreement dated as of May 16, 2012 among the Company, KKR I-L Limited (the ""), Credit Suisse International, HSBC Bank USA, National Association and, for limited purposes, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (the ""), the Company is repurchasing $1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (the "");
KKR Holder
Note Exchange Agreement
Notes
          WHEREAS, in consideration of the repurchase of the Notes, the Termination (as defined in the Note Exchange Agreement) and the amendment of certain agreements that were entered into when the Notes were issued, the Company desires to issue to the KKR Holder, Citibank, N.A., Credit Suisse International and HSBC Bank USA, National Association (collectively, the "") 14,204,545 warrants (the "") to purchase shares of Common Stock (as defined below);
Initial Holders
Warrants
          WHEREAS, in connection with the issuance of the Warrants to the KKR Holder pursuant to the Note Exchange Agreement, the Company and the KKR Holder are entering into a Registration Rights Agreement dated as of May 23, 2012; and
          WHEREAS, the Company desires the Warrant Agent to act on behalf of the Company in connection with the issuance, registration, transfer, exchange, exercise and cancellation of the Warrants as provided herein, and the Warrant Agent is willing to so act.
          Each party agrees for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the registered holders of the Warrants (the ""):
Holders
          Section 1.01. .
Definitions
          "" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. For the purposes of this definition, "" when used with respect to any Person means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "", "" and "" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
control
controlling
controlled by
under common control with
          "" means the Board of Directors of the Company or any committee thereof duly authorized to act on behalf of such Board.
Board of Directors
          "" means each day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions are not required to be open in the State of New York.
Business Day
          "" of any Person means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of such Person, including any Preferred Stock of such Person, but excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity.
Capital Stock
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Note Exchange Agreement.
Closing Date
          "" of any share of Common Stock or any other publicly-traded equity security on any Trading Day means the closing sale price of such security (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the closing bid and closing ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average closing bid and the average closing ask prices) on such date as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the shares of Common Stock or other security are traded. If the shares of Common Stock or other security are not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the "Closing Sale Price" shall be determined by a nationally recognized securities dealer retained by the Company for that purpose. The "Closing Sale Price" shall be determined without reference to extended or after hours trading.
Closing Sale Price
          "" means shares of the class designated as common stock of the Company at the date of this Warrant Agreement (namely, common stock, par value $0.10) or shares of any class or classes resulting from any reclassification or reclassifications thereof and which have no preference in respect of dividends or of amounts payable in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
Common Stock
          "" means for each Warrant, for each of the 20 Trading Days during the Observation Period, to the extent the Exercise Value exceeds the Exercise Price, an amount of cash equal to 1/20th of such excess.
Daily Cash Amount
          "" means for each Warrant, for each of the 20 Trading Days during the Observation Period, to the extent the Exercise Value exceeds the Exercise Price on such Trading Day, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to 1/20th of (A) such excess, (B) the VWAP of the Common Stock for such Trading Day.
Daily Share Amount
divided by
          "" means any certificated Warrant in registered form that is not deposited with the Depository or with the Warrant Agent as the Warrant Custodian.
Definitive Warrant
          "" means The Depository Trust Company, its nominees and their respective successors.
Depository
          "" means, for any Trading Day during the Observation Period, (i) the Number of Warrant Shares as of such Trading Day, (ii) the VWAP of the Common Stock (or any publicly-traded equity securities into which the Common Stock has been converted in connection with any Reorganization) on such Trading Day. For the purposes of determining the Exercise Value of any Reference Property, the following provisions shall apply:
Exercise Value
multiplied by
          (a) if the Reference Property includes publicly-traded equity securities for which the price can be determined as contemplated by the definition of "VWAP," then the value of such securities shall be determined in accordance with such definition;
          (b) if the Reference Property includes cash, then the value of such cash shall be the amount thereof; and
          (c) if the Reference Property includes any other property, then the value of such property shall be the Fair Market Value of such property as determined by the Board of Directors in good faith.
          "" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as they may be amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
          "" means, for any issuance or distribution, the first date on which the shares of Common Stock trade regular way on the relevant exchange or in the relevant market from which the Closing Sale Price was obtained without the right to receive such issuance or distribution.
Ex-Date
          "" means the amount which a willing buyer would pay a willing seller in an arm's-length transaction.
Fair Market Value
          "" means, with respect to any Person, all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money.
Indebtedness
          "" means $0.24 per share of Common Stock.
Initial Dividend Threshold
          "" means the date on which the Warrants are initially issued.
Issue Date
          "" means the occurrence of any of the following after the Closing Date:
Make Whole Event
          (a) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" becomes the "beneficial owner" (as these terms are defined in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's Capital Stock that is at the time entitled to vote by the holder thereof in the election of the Board of Directors (or comparable body); or
          (b) any transaction or event or any series of transactions or events (whether by means of an exchange offer, liquidation, tender offer, consolidation, merger, combination, reclassification, recapitalization, asset sale, lease of assets or otherwise) in connection with which all or substantially all of the Common Stock is exchanged for, converted into, acquired for or constitutes solely the right to receive stock, other securities or other property, assets or cash, other than any merger primarily for the purpose of changing the Company's jurisdiction of incorporation and resulting in a reclassification, conversion or exchange of outstanding shares of Common Stock solely into shares of common stock of the surviving entity; or
          (c) the termination of trading of the Common Stock, which will be deemed to have occurred if, for 30 consecutive Trading Days, the Common Stock or other common stock into which the Warrants are exercisable is not listed for trading on a U.S. national securities exchange or approved for quotation and trading on a national automated inter-dealer quotation system.
          However, a "Make Whole Event" will be deemed not to have occurred if at least 90% of the consideration in the transaction or transactions (other than cash payments for fractional shares and cash payments made in respect of dissenters' appraisal rights) which otherwise would constitute a "Make Whole Event" under clause (b) above consists of shares of common stock traded or to be traded immediately following such transaction on a U.S. national securities exchange or national automated inter-dealer quotation system and, as a result of the transaction or transactions, the Warrants become exercisable for such common stock and other consideration, subject to the provisions set forth in Section 4.03.
          "" means, for any Scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock (i) a failure by the primary United States national or regional securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading to open for trading during its regular trading session on such Scheduled Trading Day, or (ii) the occurrence or existence for more than a one-half-hour period in the aggregate on such Scheduled Trading Day of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the relevant stock exchange or otherwise) in the Common Stock or in any options, contracts or futures contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m., New York time, on such Scheduled Trading Day.
Market Disruption Event
          "" per Warrant means one share of Common Stock, subject to adjustment pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Number of Warrant Shares
          "" means the 20 consecutive Trading Day period beginning on the third Scheduled Trading Day following the related Exercise Date.
Observation Period
          "" means the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Officer
          "" means a certificate signed by an Officer.
Officers' Certificate
          "" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated association or organization, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
Person
          "," as applied to the Capital Stock of any Person, means Capital Stock of any class or classes (however designated) that is preferred as to the payment of dividends, or as to the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation or dissolution of such Person, over shares of Capital Stock of any other class of such Person.
Preferred Stock
          "" means a day that is scheduled to be a Trading Day on the primary U.S. national or regional securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, on
Scheduled Trading Day
the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded or, if the Common Stock is not so traded, a Business Day.
          "" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
          "" means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as they may be amended from time to time.
Securities Act
          "" means, with respect to any exercise of Warrants, Net Share Settlement or Cash Settlement, as elected (or deemed to have been elected) by the Company.
Settlement Method
          "" of any Person means any corporation, association, partnership or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock or other interests (including partnership interests) entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by (i) such Person, (ii) such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person or (iii) one or more Subsidiaries of such Person.
Subsidiary
          "" means a day during which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded, is open for trading. If the Common Stock (or other security for which a Closing Sale Price must be determined) is not listed or traded, "Trading Day" means a "Business Day."
Trading Day
          "" per share of the Common Stock on any Trading Day means the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg page LM.N <Equity> VWAP (or any successor thereto) in respect of the period from the scheduled open of trading until the scheduled close of trading of the primary trading session on such Trading Day or, with respect to any other publicly-traded equity security, "VWAP" per share of such publicly-traded equity security on any Trading Day means the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed on Bloomberg (or any successor service) in respect of the period from the scheduled open of trading until the scheduled close of trading of the primary trading session on such Trading Day (or, in either case, if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market value per share of Common Stock or such publicly-traded equity security on such Trading Day, as determined by a nationally recognized investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company using a volume-weighted method).
VWAP
          "" means any Global Warrant or Definitive Warrant issued by the Company under this Agreement.
Warrant Certificate
          "" means the custodian with respect to a Global Warrant (as appointed by the Depository) or any successor Person thereto.
Warrant Custodian
          Section 1.02. .
Other Definitions
          Section 1.03. . Unless the text or context otherwise requires:
Rules of Construction
          Section 2.01. .
Issuance and Registration
                    (a) . Unless otherwise agreed by the Company and the Holders of the Warrants, the Warrants shall initially be represented by one or more permanent Global Warrants, in fully registered form with the global securities legend set forth in Exhibit A hereto (each, a "").Any such Global Warrant shall be deposited on behalf of the relevant Holders with the Warrant Agent, as custodian for the Depository (or with such other custodian as the Depository may direct), registered in the name of the Depository or a nominee of the Depository, and duly executed by the Company and countersigned by the Warrant Agent as hereinafter provided.
Warrants
Global Warrant
                    (b) . Unless otherwise agreed by the Company, Holders of Warrants or holders of beneficial interests in any Global Warrant will not be entitled to physical delivery of Definitive Warrants (except as provided in Section 2.05).
Definitive Warrants
                    (c) . This Section 2.01(c) shall apply only to any Global Warrant deposited with or on behalf of the Depository.
Procedures for Global Warrants
          Section 2.02. . At least one Officer shall sign the Warrant Certificates for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
Warrant Certificates
                    (a) If an Officer whose signature is on a Warrant Certificate no longer holds that office at the time the Warrant Agent countersigns the Warrant Certificate, the Warrants evidenced by such Warrant Certificate shall be valid nevertheless.
                    (b) The Warrants shall not be valid until countersigned by the Warrant Agent and registered on the Warrant Register.
          Section 2.03. . The Warrants shall be issued in registered form only. The Warrant Agent shall keep a register (the "") of the Warrants (and Warrant Certificates) and of their transfer and exchange. The Warrant Register shall show the names and addresses of the respective Holders and the date and number of Warrants owned by such Holders (as evidenced on the face of each of the Warrant Certificates). The Holder of any Global Warrant will be the Depository or a nominee in whose name the Global Warrant is registered.
Warrant Register
Warrant Register
                    The Company and the Warrant Agent may deem and treat the Person in whose name Warrants are registered in the Warrant Register as the absolute owner of such Warrants for all purposes and regardless of any notice to the contrary.
          Section 2.04. .
Transfer and Exchange
          Until the date (the "") that is the later of (1) the date that is one year after the Issue Date, or such shorter period of time as permitted by Rule 144 under the Securities Act or any successor provision thereto, and (2) such later date, if any, as may be required by applicable law, any certificate evidencing such Warrant (and all securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof, other than Common Stock, if any, issued upon exercise thereof which shall bear the legend set forth in Section 2.04(d), if applicable) shall bear a legend in substantially the following form (unless (i) such Warrants have been transferred pursuant to a registration statement that has become or been declared effective under the Securities Act and that continues to be effective at the time of such transfer, or sold pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144 or any similar provision then in force under the Securities Act, or (ii) otherwise agreed by the Company in writing, with notice thereof to the Warrant Agent):
Resale Restriction Termination Date
          THIS SECURITY AND THE COMMON STOCK, IF ANY, ISSUABLE UPON EXERCISE OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE ""), AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER:
SECURITIES ACT
          PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(D) ABOVE, THE COMPANY AND THE WARRANT AGENT RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
          No transfer of any Warrant prior to the Resale Restriction Termination Date will be registered by the Warrant Agent unless the applicable box on the Form of Assignment and Transfer has been checked.
          Any Warrant (or security issued in exchange or substitution therefor) as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms may, upon surrender of such Warrant for exchange to the Warrant Agent in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.04, be exchanged for a new Warrant or Warrants, of like tenor and aggregate number of Warrants, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this Section 2.04(c). The Company shall be entitled to instruct the Warrant Agent in writing to so surrender any Global Warrant as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms for exchange, and, upon such instruction, the Warrant Agent shall so surrender such Global Warrant for exchange; and any new Global Warrant so exchanged therefor shall not bear the restrictive legend specified in this Section 2.04(c) and shall not be assigned a restricted CUSIP number. The Company shall promptly notify the Warrant Agent upon the occurrence of the Resale Restriction Termination Date and promptly after a registration statement, if any, with respect to the Warrants or any Common Stock issued upon exercise of the Warrants has been declared effective under the Securities Act.
                    (d) Until the Resale Restriction Termination Date, any stock certificate representing Common Stock issued upon exercise of a Warrant shall bear a legend in substantially the following form (unless (i) such Common Stock has been transferred pursuant to a registration statement that has become or been declared effective under the Securities Act and that continues to be effective at the time of such transfer, or pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144 or any similar provision then in force under the Securities Act, (ii) such Common Stock has been issued upon exercise of Warrants that have been transferred pursuant to a registration statement that has become or been declared effective under the
Securities Act and that continues to be effective at the time of such transfer, or pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144 or any similar provision then in force under the Securities Act, or (iii) otherwise agreed by the Company with written notice thereof to the Warrant Agent and any transfer agent for the Common Stock):
          THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE ""), AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER:
SECURITIES ACT
          PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(D) ABOVE, THE COMPANY AND THE TRANSFER AGENT FOR THE COMMON STOCK RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
Any such Common Stock as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms may, upon surrender of the certificates representing such shares of Common Stock for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent for the Common Stock, be exchanged for a new certificate or certificates for a like aggregate number of shares of Common Stock, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this Section 2.04(d).
          Section 2.05. .
Definitive Warrants
                    (a) Subject to Section 2.05(e), beneficial interests in a Global Warrant deposited with the Depository or with the Warrant Agent as custodian shall be transferred to the
beneficial owners thereof in the form of Definitive Warrants in a number equal to the number of Warrants represented by such Global Warrant, in exchange for such Global Warrant, only if such transfer complies with Section 2.04 and the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as depositary for such Global Warrant or if at any time the Depository ceases to be a "clearing agency" registered under the Exchange Act and, in each such case, a successor depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice.
                    (b) Any Global Warrant that is transferable to the beneficial owners thereof pursuant to this Section 2.05 shall be surrendered by the Depository to the Warrant Agent, to be so transferred, in whole or from time to time in part, without charge, and the Warrant Agent shall countersign, by either manual or facsimile signature, and deliver to each beneficial owner in the name of such beneficial owner, upon such transfer of each portion of such Global Warrant, Definitive Warrants evidencing a number of Warrants equivalent to such beneficial owner's beneficial interest in the Global Warrant. The Warrant Agent shall register such transfer in the Warrant Register, and upon such transfer the surrendered Global Warrant shall be cancelled by the Warrant Agent.
                    (c) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.05(b), the registered Holder of a Global Warrant may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Agreement or the Warrants.
                    (d) In the event of the occurrence of the events specified in Section 2.05(a), the Company will promptly make available to the Warrant Agent a reasonable supply of Definitive Warrants in definitive, fully registered form.
                    (e) The Depository shall notify the Warrant Agent of the names and the amounts in which the Definitive Warrants will be issued. Neither the Company nor the Warrant Agent will be liable or responsible for any names or any amounts provided by the Depository.
                    (f) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in lieu of issuing a Definitive Warrant to any Person, the Warrant Agent may, upon the Company's instruction, register Warrants in the name of such Person through the Company's direct registration system or the Warrant Agent's other book-entry procedures.
          Section 2.06. . If a mutilated Warrant Certificate is surrendered to the Warrant Agent or if the Holder of a Warrant Certificate provides proof reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Warrant Agent that the Warrant Certificate has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Warrant Agent shall countersign a replacement Warrant Certificate of like tenor and representing an equivalent number of Warrants, if the reasonable requirements of the Warrant Agent are met. Such Holder shall furnish an indemnity bond sufficient in the judgment of the Company and the Warrant Agent to protect the Company and the Warrant Agent from any loss that either of them may suffer if a Warrant Certificate is replaced. The Company and the Warrant Agent may charge the Holder for their expenses in replacing a Warrant Certificate. Every replacement Warrant Certificate evidences an additional obligation of the Company.
Replacement Certificates
          Section 2.07. . Warrants outstanding at any time are all Warrants evidenced as outstanding in the Warrant Register (which, in the case of Warrants represented by a Warrant Certificate, shall include all Warrant Certificates authenticated by the Warrant Agent excluding those canceled by it and those delivered to it for cancellation). A Warrant does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Warrant.
Outstanding Warrants
          If a Warrant Certificate is replaced pursuant to Section 2.06, the Warrants evidenced thereby cease to be outstanding unless the Warrant Agent and the Company receive proof satisfactory to them that the replaced Warrant Certificate is held by a bona fide purchaser.
          Any Warrant or Common Stock issued upon the exercise of a Warrant that is repurchased or owned by the Company or any Affiliate thereof may not be resold by the Company or such Affiliate unless registered under the Securities Act or resold pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in a transaction that results in such Warrants or Common Stock, as the case may be, no longer being "restricted securities" (as defined under Rule 144 under the Securities Act).
          Section 2.08. . If the Company shall purchase or otherwise acquire Definitive Warrants, the Company may, at its option, deliver the same to the Warrant Agent for cancellation.
Cancellation
                    The Warrant Agent and no one else shall cancel all Warrant Certificates surrendered for transfer, exchange, replacement, exercise or cancellation. The Company may not issue new Warrant Certificates to replace Warrant Certificates to the extent they evidence Warrants that have been exercised or Warrants that the Company has cancelled.
          Section 2.09. .
CUSIP Numbers
                    The Company may assign "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use) in connection with the issuance of the Warrants and the Warrant Agent may use such "CUSIP" numbers in notices as a convenience to Holders; , that any such notice shall state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Warrant Certificates or as contained in any notice and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Warrant Certificates.
provided, however
          Section 3.01. . Each Warrant shall entitle the Holder thereof to purchase the Number of Warrant Shares at an exercise price of $88.00 per share (as such exercise price may be adjusted pursuant to Article IV, the "").
Exercise
Exercise Price
          Section 3.02. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Warrants shall be exercisable at any time and from time to time on or after the Issue Date; provided that no Warrant shall be exercisable after 5:00 p.m., New York time, on July 15, 2017 (the "").
Exercise Period
Expiration Date
          Section 3.03. . A Warrant shall terminate and become void as of the earlier of (i) the Expiration Date or (ii) the date such Warrant is exercised or deemed exercised pursuant to Section 3.04(b).
Expiration
          Section 3.04. .
Manner of Exercise
                    (a) Subject to Section 3.02, Warrants may be exercised by a Holder in full or in part by taking the actions described in (i) or (ii) below, as appropriate, not later than 5:00 p.m., New York time, on any Business Day (the "").
Exercise Date
                    (b) If either of the Warrant Certificate or the Notice of Exercise is received by the Warrant Agent after 5:00 P.M., New York time, on any Business Day, or, in respect of interests in a Global Warrant, the requirements of exercise set forth in Section 3.04(a)(ii) are not satisfied on or before 5:00 P.M., New York time, on any Business Day, the Warrants will be deemed to be exercised on the Business Day next succeeding the date such conditions to exercise set forth in Section 3.04(a) are met and such next succeeding Business Day shall be deemed to be the Exercise Date with respect to such Warrants. If the date specified as the Exercise Date is not a Business Day, the Warrants will be deemed to be received and exercised on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day. Any Warrants that have not been exercised prior to 5:00 p.m., New York time, on the Expiration Date shall be deemed to be exercised by the Holder thereof immediately prior to such time on the Expiration Date; that, for the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall any cash or shares of Common Stock be due from the Company in connection with the settlement of such Warrants for any Trading Day during the Observation Period for such Warrants if the Exercise Value for such Trading Day is less than or equal to the Exercise Price on such Trading Day.
provided
                    (c) In the case of a Global Warrant, whenever some but not all of the Warrants represented by such Global Warrant are exercised in accordance with the terms thereof and of this Agreement, such Global Warrant shall be surrendered by the Holder to the Warrant Agent, which shall cause an adjustment to be made to such Global Warrant so that the number of Warrants represented thereby will be equal to the number of Warrants theretofore represented by such Global Warrant less the number of Warrants then exercised. The Warrant Agent shall thereafter promptly return such Global Warrant to the Holder or its nominee or custodian.
                    (d) In the case of a Definitive Warrant, whenever some but not all of the Warrants represented by such Definitive Warrant are exercised in accordance with the terms thereof and of this Agreement, the Holder shall be entitled, at the request of the Holder, to
receive from the Company within a reasonable time, and in any event not exceeding three (3) Business Days, a new Definitive Warrant in substantially identical form for the number of Warrants equal to the number of Warrants theretofor represented by such Definitive Warrant less the number of Warrants then exercised, without payment of any service charge by the Holder but, if required by the Company or the Warrant Agent, with payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge required by law or that may be imposed in connection therewith as a result of the name of the Holder of the new Definitive Warrant issued upon such exercise being different from the name of the Holder of the old Definitive Warrant surrendered for such exercise.
                    (e) If a Warrant Certificate shall have been exercised in full, the Warrant Agent shall promptly cancel such certificate following its receipt from the Holder or the Depository, as applicable.
                    (f) If Net Share Settlement applies to any Warrant exercised or deemed exercised by a Holder, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on the issue of the shares of Common Stock upon such exercise, unless the tax is due because the Holder requests such shares to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name, in which case the Holder shall pay that tax. The Warrant Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Warrant Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax that is due by such Holder in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence.
          Section 3.05. .
Settlement Upon Exercise of Warrants
                    (a) Upon any exercise of Warrants, (i) if the Company has elected (or is deemed to have elected) to settle such Warrants in shares of Common Stock as set forth in Section 3.05(d) (""), the Company will deliver to the Holder of such Warrants in respect of each Warrant being exercised a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the sum of the Daily Share Amounts for each of the 20 Trading Days during the Observation Period and cash for any fractional shares as described in Section 3.06, and (ii) if the Company has elected to settle such Warrants in cash as set forth in Section 3.05(d) (""), the Company will pay to the Holder of such Warrants in respect of each Warrant being exercised an amount in cash equal to the sum of the Daily Cash Amounts for each of the 20 Trading Days during the Observation Period. Settlement will occur on the third Business Day following the final Trading Day of the Observation Period.
Net Share Settlement
Cash Settlement
                    (b) Subject to Section 3.02, upon any exercise of Warrants in compliance with Section 3.05(a)(i), the Company shall issue and cause the transfer agent for the Common Stock (the "", which may be the Warrant Agent) to cause to be registered in the Company's direct registration system to or upon the written order of the Holder and in such name or names as the Holder may designate, a number of full shares of Common Stock so purchased upon the exercise of such Warrants (determined in accordance with Section 3.01, Section 3.04(a), Section 3.05(a) and Section 3.06) or other securities to which it is entitled, registered or otherwise, to the Person or Persons entitled to receive the same (including any depositary institution so designated by a Holder), together with cash as provided in Section 3.06 in respect of any fractional shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable upon such exercise.
Stock Transfer Agent
                    (c) Subject to Section 3.02, upon any exercise of Warrants in compliance with Section 3.05(a)(ii), the Company shall pay an amount determined in accordance with Section 3.01, Section 3.04(a) and Section 3.05(a) by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the exercising Holder's account within the United States (as such Holder has notified to the Warrant Agent) or, with respect to any Global Warrant, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account of the Depositary or its nominee.
                    (d) The Company may elect the Settlement Method for any Warrants exercised or deemed exercised on any Exercise Date by delivering a notice (the "") of the relevant Settlement Method, through the Warrant Agent, to the Holders of such Warrants no later than the close of business on the Trading Day immediately following the relevant Exercise Date. If the Company does not elect a Settlement Method prior to the deadline set forth in the immediately preceding sentence, the Company shall no longer have the right to elect Cash Settlement and the Company shall be deemed to have elected Net Share Settlement.
Settlement Notice
          Section 3.06. . The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares of Common Stock on the exercise of Warrants. The number of shares of Common Stock that shall be issuable upon Net Share Settlement of any Warrants exercised or deemed exercised by a Holder at any time shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants being exercised or deemed exercised by that Holder at that time (determined in accordance with Section 3.01, Section 3.04(a) and this Section 3.06). If any fraction of a share of Common Stock would, except for the provisions of this Section 3.06, be issuable upon the exercise of Warrants, the Company shall pay an amount in cash equal to the VWAP of the Common Stock on the last Trading Day of the Observation Period, such fraction, computed to the nearest whole cent.
Fractional Shares
multiplied by
          Section 3.07. .
Warrant Shares
                    (a) The Company shall provide, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued shares or shares held in treasury, sufficient shares of Common Stock to provide for the exercise of all outstanding Warrants, including any Additional Shares.
                    (b) Before taking any action which would cause an adjustment decreasing the Exercise Price to an amount that would cause the Exercise Price to be reduced below the then par value, if any, of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, the Company will take all corporate action that may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue shares of such Common Stock at such adjusted Exercise Price.
                    (c) The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock that may be issued upon exercise of the Warrants will, upon issue, be fully paid and non-assessable by the Company and free from all taxes, liens and charges with respect to the issue thereof, except as set forth in Section 3.04(f); that if any adjustment to the Exercise Price is made and a Holder is deemed to recognize, as provided by applicable law, a distribution from the Company even though such Holder has not received any cash or property as a result of such adjustment, the Company shall be entitled to withhold (to the extent required by law) United States federal
provided
income tax, if any, on such deemed distribution from any amounts payable upon exercise of the Warrants.
                    (d) The Company covenants that, if any shares of Common Stock to be provided for the purpose of exercise of Warrants hereunder require registration with or approval of any governmental authority under any federal or state law before such shares may be validly issued upon exercise of Warrants, the Company will in good faith and expeditiously, to the extent then permitted by the rules and interpretations of the SEC (or any successor thereto), endeavor to secure such registration or approval, as the case may be.
                    (e) The Company further covenants that, if at any time the Common Stock shall be listed on The New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or national automated inter-dealer quotation system, the Company will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated inter-dealer quotation system, list and keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated inter-dealer quotation system, all Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants.
          Section 4.01. . Subject to the provisions of this Article IV (including without limitation Section 4.01(i) and Section 4.05), the Exercise Price shall be subject to adjustment, without duplication, under the following circumstances:
Adjustments
                    (a) in case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Warrants are outstanding, (i) pay a dividend in shares of Common Stock or make a distribution in shares of Common Stock to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock, or (ii) split the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater number of such shares or combine outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of such shares, the Exercise Price will be adjusted based on the following formula:
               An adjustment to the Exercise Price made pursuant to this clause (a) will become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Date or effective date of such dividend, distribution, share split or share combination, as applicable.
               To the extent that a dividend, distribution, share split or share combination of the type described in this Section 4.01(a) is declared but not so paid or made, the Exercise Price shall again be readjusted to the Exercise Price that would then be in effect if such dividend, distribution, share split or share combination had not been declared.
                    (b) in case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Warrants are outstanding, issue rights or warrants (other than rights or warrants referred to in 4.01(c)) to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding Common Stock entitling them, for a period of not more than 45 calendar days from the date of such distribution, to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock, at a price per share less than the average of the Closing Sale Prices of the Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of announcement of the issuance of such rights or warrants, the Exercise Price will be adjusted based on the following formula:
An adjustment to the Exercise Price made pursuant to this clause (b) will become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Date for such issuance.
To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered after the expiration of such rights or warrants, the Exercise Price will be readjusted to the Exercise Price that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. If such rights or warrants are not so issued, the Exercise Price will be readjusted to be the Exercise Price that would then be in effect if the Ex-Date for such issuance had not occurred.
                    (c) in case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Warrants are outstanding, by dividend or otherwise, distribute shares of Capital Stock of the Company (other than the Common Stock), or evidences of its Indebtedness or other assets or property or rights, or warrants to acquire shares of Capital Stock of the Company or other securities (any of the foregoing, the ""), to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock, excluding (i) dividends or distributions described in clauses (a) or (b) of this Section 4.01, (ii) dividends or distributions paid exclusively in cash, (iii) any dividends and distributions in connection with a Reorganization, and (iv) Spin-Offs to which the provisions set forth below in this clause (c) shall apply, then the Exercise Price will be adjusted based on the following formula:
Distributed Assets
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustment will be made to the Exercise Price under this clause (c) in the event that (i) the Fair Market Value of the Distributed Assets applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than the average Closing Sale Prices of the Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading Day Period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Date for such distribution, or (ii) such average Closing Sale Prices exceeds such Fair Market Value by less than $1.00. In such cases, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment under this clause (c), each Holder of Warrants shall have the right to receive, at the same time as holders of the Common Stock and in addition to the shares of Common Stock (if any) issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, for each Warrant, the kind and amount of Distributed Assets such Holder would have received had such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Number of Warrant Shares immediately prior to the Ex-Date for such distribution.
If the Board of Directors determines the Fair Market Value of any distribution for purposes of this clause (c) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any Distributed Assets comprising all or part of such distribution, it must in doing so consider the prices in such market over the 10 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Date for such distribution (the ""), to the extent possible, unless the Board of Directors determines in good faith that determining the Fair Market Value during the Reference Period would not be appropriate.
Reference Period
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any such dividend or other distribution consists of shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to one or more of the Subsidiaries or other business units of the Company (a ""), the Exercise Price will be adjusted based on the following formula:
Spin-Off
The adjustment to the Exercise Price under this clause (c) in respect of a Spin-Off will occur on the last day of the Valuation Period; that in respect of any Warrants exercised during the Valuation Period, references with respect to 10 Trading Days shall be deemed replaced with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed between the effective date of such Spin-Off and the Exercise Date for such Warrants in determining the applicable Exercise Price.
provided
To the extent that such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Exercise Price will be readjusted to the Exercise Price that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
For purposes of this clause (c) and clauses (a) and (b) of this Section 4.01, any dividend or distribution to which this clause (c) is applicable that also includes shares of Common Stock, or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (A) a dividend or distribution of the evidences of Indebtedness, assets or shares of Capital Stock other than such shares of Common Stock or rights or warrants (and any adjustment to the Exercise Price required by this clause (c) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by (B) a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights or warrants (and any further adjustment to the Exercise Price required by clauses (a) or (b) of this Section 4.01 with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made), except the Ex-Date for such dividend or distribution shall be substituted for "the Ex-Date for such dividend or other distribution" within the meaning of clause (a) of this Section 4.01 and the "Ex-Date for such issuance" within the meaning of clause (b) of this Section 4.01, and any shares of Common Stock included in such dividend or distribution shall not be deemed "outstanding immediately prior to the opening of business on the Ex-Date for such dividend or distribution" within the meaning of clause (a) of this Section 4.01.
                    (d) in case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Warrants are outstanding, by dividend or otherwise, make a distribution consisting exclusively of cash to all or substantially all holders of the outstanding Common Stock, other than (i) regular quarterly cash dividends (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors) that do not exceed the Initial Dividend Threshold, and (ii) dividends or distributions made in connection with the Company's liquidation, dissolution or winding-up or upon a merger or consolidation, the Exercise Price will be adjusted based on the following formula:
Whenever the Exercise Price is adjusted, the Initial Dividend Threshold shall be adjusted by multiplying the Initial Dividend Threshold then in effect by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Exercise Price prior to adjustment and the denominator of which is the Exercise Price following such adjustment.
An adjustment to the Exercise Price made pursuant to this clause (d) will become effective on the Ex-Date for such dividend or distribution. To the extent that such distribution is not so paid or made, the Exercise Price will be readjusted to the Exercise Price that would then be in effect if such distribution had not been declared.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustment will be made to the Exercise Price under this clause (d) in the event that (i) the portion of the cash so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Date for such distribution, or (ii) such Closing Sale Price exceeds the amount of such distribution by less than $1.00. In such cases, in lieu of the adjustment under this clause (d), each Holder of Warrants shall have the right to receive, at the same time as holders of the Common Stock and in addition to the shares of Common Stock (if any) issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, for each Warrant the amount of cash such Holder would have received had such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Number of Warrant Shares immediately prior to the Ex-Date for such distribution
                    (e) In case the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company makes, at any time or from time to time while any of the Warrants are outstanding, a payment in respect of a
tender offer or exchange offer for the Common Stock, to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer, the Exercise Price will be decreased based on the following formula:
The adjustment to the Exercise Price pursuant to this clause (e) will become effective at the close of business on the Trading Day next succeeding the date such tender or exchange offer expires.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustment will be made to the Exercise Price under this clause (e) as a result of a tender offer solely to holders of fewer than 100 shares of the Common Stock.
                    (f) Except as stated herein, the Company will not adjust the Exercise Price for the issuance of shares of the Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of the Common Stock or the right to purchase shares of the Common Stock or such convertible or exchangeable securities. If, however, the application of the foregoing formulas would result in an increase in the Exercise Price, no adjustment to the Exercise Price will be made (other than as a result of a share combination).
                    (g) To the extent permitted by law, the Company may in its sole discretion make such decreases in the Exercise Price, in addition to those required by clauses (a) to (e) of this Section 4.01, as the Board of Directors considers to be advisable to avoid or diminish any United States federal income tax to holders of Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock (or rights to acquire stock) or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes.
                    (h) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Company from time to time may decrease the Exercise Price by any amount for any period of time, if the Board of Directors shall have made a determination that such decrease would be in the best interests of the Company, which determination shall be conclusive. Whenever the Exercise Price is decreased under this clause (h) or clause (g), the Company shall mail to Holders of record of the Warrants a notice of the decrease, which notice will be given at least 15 days prior to the effectiveness of any such decrease, and such notice shall state the decreased Exercise Price and the period during which it will be in effect.
                    (i) No adjustment in the Exercise Price shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% in such Exercise Price; that any adjustments that by reason of this clause (i) are not required to be made shall be carried forward and the Company shall take such carried-forward adjustments into account in any subsequent adjustment and make such carry forward adjustments, regardless of whether the aggregate adjustment is less than 1% on each Trading Day of any Observation Period.
provided
                    (j) All calculations under this Section 4.01 shall be made by the Company (and the Company shall inform the Warrant Agent of any such calculations) and shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest one-ten thousandth (1/10,000) of a share, as the case may be.
                    (k) Whenever the Exercise Price is adjusted as herein provided, the Company will provide notice to Holders of such adjustment either (i) by written notice to Holders in the manner provided in Section 6.04, (ii) by electronic communication to Holders, or (iii) by issuing a press release through Business Wire containing the relevant information and making such information available on the Company's website or through another public medium as the Company may use at that time. In addition, the Company shall promptly file with the Warrant Agent an Officers' Certificate setting forth the Exercise Price after such adjustment and setting forth a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment. Unless and until an officer of the Warrant Agent shall have received such Officers' Certificate, the Warrant Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment of the Exercise Price and may assume that the last Exercise Price of which it has actual knowledge is still in effect. Promptly after delivery of such certificate, the Company shall prepare a notice of such adjustment of the Exercise Price setting forth the adjusted Exercise Price and the date on which each adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of the Exercise Price to the Holder of each Warrant at its last address appearing on the Warrant Register, within 20 calendar days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of any such adjustment.
                    (l) In any case in which this Section 4.01 provides that an adjustment shall become effective (i) upon the opening of business on an Ex-Date, or (ii) at the close of business on a day after the date a tender or exchange offer expires (each a ""), the Company may elect to defer, until the occurrence of the applicable distribution, issuance of Common Stock or payment (an "") triggering an adjustment to the Exercise Price (A) issuing to the Holder of any Warrants exercised after such Determination Date and before the occurrence of such Adjustment Event, the additional shares of Common Stock, if any, or other securities or property issuable upon such exercise by reason of the adjustment required by such Adjustment Event over and above the Common Stock issuable upon such exercise
Determination Date
Adjustment Event
before giving effect to such adjustment and (B) paying to such Holder any amount in cash in lieu of any fractional share.
                    (m) For purposes of this Section 4.01, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.
                    (n) No adjustment to the Exercise Price shall be made pursuant to Section 4.01 on account of a distribution on Common Stock, if the Holders of the Warrants will otherwise participate for each Warrant in such distribution without exercise of such Warrant as a result of holding the Warrants at the same time and on the same terms as a holder of a Number of Warrant Shares.
                    (o) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustment to the Exercise Price need be made for:
                    (p) No adjustment need be made for rights to purchase Common Stock pursuant to a Company plan for reinvestment of dividends or interest or for any issuance of Common Stock or convertible or exchangeable securities or rights to purchase Common Stock or convertible or exchangeable securities.
                    (q) Notwithstanding this Section 4.01 and the other provisions of Article IV, if any adjustment to the Exercise Price becomes effective, or any Ex-Date (relating to a required adjustment to the Exercise Price) occurs, during the period beginning on an Exercise Date and ending on the close of business on the last Trading Day of the corresponding Observation Period, the Board of Directors may make such adjustments to the Exercise Price, the VWAP of the Common Stock or the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, as may be necessary or appropriate to effect the intent of this Section 4.01 and the other provisions of Article IV and to avoid unjust or inequitable results, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors. Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (q) shall apply in lieu of the adjustment or other term that would otherwise be applicable.
          Section 4.02. . Upon each adjustment of the Exercise Price pursuant to Section 4.01, the Number of Warrant Shares shall be adjusted by
Adjustment to Number of Warrant Shares
multiplying the Number of Warrant Shares immediately prior to such adjustment by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to such adjustment and the denominator of which is the Exercise Price as so adjusted and rounding the result to the nearest 1/10,000 of a share.
th
          Section 4.03. .
Reorganizations
          Section 4.04.
Adjustment to Number of Warrant Shares upon a Make-Whole Event.
                    (a) If and only to the extent a Holder elects to exercise Warrants at any time following the effective date of a Make Whole Event (the "") but before 5:00 p.m., New York time, on the Make Whole Termination Date, the Number of Warrant Shares applicable to such exercised Warrants will be increased by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the ""). The number of Additional Shares of Common Stock shall be determined as set forth in clause (b) of this Section 4.04, based on the Effective Date and
Effective Date
Additional Shares
the price (the "") paid per share for the Common Stock in such Make Whole Event. If holders of the Common Stock receive only cash in such Make Whole Event, the "Stock Price" shall be the cash amount paid per share. Otherwise, the "Stock Price" shall be the average of the Closing Sale Prices of the Common Stock on the five Trading Days prior to, but not including, the Effective Date of such Make Whole Event.
Stock Price
                    (b) The number of Additional Shares per Warrant by which the Number of Warrant Shares shall be increased for exercises of Warrants in connection with a Make Whole Event pursuant to clause (a) of this Section 4.04 will be as set forth in the following table, based on the Effective Date and the Stock Price for the Make Whole Event:
1.1309 shares per Warrant, such number of shares being subject to adjustment in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Exercise Price.
                    (c) The numbers of Additional Shares of Common Stock set forth in the table in clause (b) of this Section 4.04 shall be adjusted, as of any date on which the Exercise Price is adjusted, in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Exercise Price. The Stock Prices set forth in the table in clause (b) of this Section 4.04 and the prices per share set forth in Section 4.04(b)(ii) and (iii) shall be adjusted, as of any date on which the Exercise Price is adjusted, to equal the Stock Price or price per share applicable immediately prior to such adjustment,a fraction of which:
multiplied by
                    (d) The Company shall provide written notice to all Holders of the anticipated Effective Date of any Make Whole Event that the Company knows, or reasonably should know, will occur at least 15 calendar days prior to such anticipated Effective Date.
                    (e) The Company shall provide written notice to all Holders of record as of the Effective Date of the Make Whole Event at their addresses shown in the Warrant Register (and to beneficial owners to the extent required by applicable law) of the occurrence of such Make Whole Event, the resulting adjustment to the Number of Warrant Shares and the last date on which Holders may exercise their Warrants in connection with such Make Whole Event (the ""), which shall be a date that is not less than 20 nor more than 35 calendar days after the date of the notice under this clause (e).
Make Whole Termination Date
          Section 4.05. . To the extent that the Company has a rights plan in effect upon exercise of the Warrants, each share of Common Stock issued upon such exercise shall be entitled to receive the appropriate number of rights, if any, and the certificates representing the Common Stock issued upon such exercise shall bear such legends, if any, in each case as may be provided by the terms of any such stockholder rights plan, as the same may be amended from time to time. If at the time of exercise, however, the rights have separated from the shares of Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of the applicable stockholder rights plan so that the Holders would not be entitled to receive any rights in respect of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, the Exercise Price shall be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company distributed to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock shares of Capital Stock of the Company, evidences of its Indebtedness, other assets or property or rights, options or warrants to acquire its Capital Stock or other securities as provided in Section 4.01(c), subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights.
Stockholder Rights Plans
          Section 4.06. . The form of Warrant Certificate need not be changed because of any adjustment made pursuant to this Article IV, and Warrant Certificates issued after such adjustment may state the same Exercise Price and the same number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants as are stated in any Warrant
Adjustment to Warrant Certificate
Certificates issued prior to such adjustment. The Company, however, may at any time in its sole discretion make any change in the form of Warrant Certificate that it may deem appropriate to give effect to such adjustments and that does not affect the substance of the Warrant Certificate, and any Warrant Certificate thereafter issued or countersigned, whether in exchange or substitution for an outstanding Warrant Certificate or otherwise, may be in the form as so changed.
          Section 5.01. . The Company hereby appoints the Warrant Agent to act as agent for the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Warrant Agent hereby accepts such appointment.
Appointment of Warrant Agent
          Section 5.02. .
Rights and Duties of Warrant Agent
                    (a) . In acting under this Warrant Agreement and in connection with the Warrant Certificates, the Warrant Agent is acting solely as agent of the Company and does not assume any obligation or relationship or agency or trust for or with any of the holders of Warrant Certificates or beneficial owners of Warrants. All fees and expenses due the Warrant Agent shall be paid to the Warrant Agent by the Company. The Warrant Agent shall have no duty to determine which costs, if any, under this Agreement shall be borne by the Holders or by the Company.
Agent for the Company
                    (b) . The Warrant Agent may consult with counsel satisfactory to it, and the advice of such counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with the advice of such counsel.
Counsel
                    (c) . The Warrant Agent shall be protected and shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken by it in reliance upon any Warrant Certificate, notice, direction, consent, certificate, affidavit, statement or other paper or document reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been presented or signed by the proper parties.
Documents
                    (d) . The Warrant Agent shall be obligated to perform only such duties as are specifically set forth herein and in the Warrant Certificates, and no implied duties or obligations of the Warrant Agent shall be read into this Agreement or the Warrant Certificates against the Warrant Agent. The Warrant Agent shall not be under any obligation to take any action hereunder that may tend to involve it in any expense or liability for which it does not receive indemnity if such indemnity is reasonably requested. The Warrant Agent shall have no duty or responsibility in case of any default by the Company in the performance of its covenants or agreements contained herein or in the Warrant Certificates or in the case of the receipt of any written demand from a Holder with respect to such default, including any duty or responsibility to initiate or attempt to initiate any proceedings at law or otherwise.
No Implied Obligations
                    (e) . The Warrant Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder to determine whether any facts exist that may require an adjustment of the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of each Warrant or the Exercise Price, or with respect to the nature or extent of any adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed, or herein or in any supplemental agreement provided to be employed, in making the same. The Warrant Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value of any shares of Common Stock or of any securities or property which may at any time be issued or delivered upon the exercise of any Warrant or upon any adjustment pursuant to Article IV, and it makes no representation with respect thereto. The Warrant Agent shall not be responsible for any failure of the Company to make any cash payment or to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock upon the surrender of any Warrant Certificate for the purpose of exercise.
Not Responsible for Adjustments or Validity of Stock
          Section 5.03. . The Warrant Agent and any stockholder, director, officer or employee of the Warrant Agent may buy, sell or deal in any of the Warrants or other securities of the Company or its Affiliates or become pecuniarily interested in transactions in which the Company or its Affiliates may be interested, or contract with or lend money to the Company or its Affiliates or otherwise act as fully and freely as though it were not the Warrant Agent under this Agreement. Nothing herein shall preclude the Warrant Agent from acting in any other capacity for the Company or for any other legal entity.
Individual Rights of Warrant Agent
          Section 5.04. . The Warrant Agent shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Agreement or the Warrant Certificates and it shall not be responsible for any statement in this Agreement or the Warrant Certificates other than its countersignature thereon.
Warrant Agents Disclaimer
'
          Section 5.05. . The Company agrees that the Warrant Agent is entitled, from time to time, to reasonable compensation for its services as agreed and to reimbursement for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by it, including the reasonable compensation and expenses of the Warrant Agent's agents and counsel as agreed. The Company shall indemnify the Warrant Agent, its officers, directors, agents and counsel against any loss, liability or expense (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by it without willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith on its part arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or performance of its duties under this Agreement. The Warrant Agent shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity, and the Company, at its option, may control the defense of such claim with counsel of the Company's choice. The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss or liability incurred by the Warrant Agent through willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith. The Companys payment and indemnification obligations pursuant to this Section 5.05 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Compensation and Indemnity
'
          Section 5.06. .
Successor Warrant Agent
                    (a) . The Company agrees for the benefit of the Holders that there shall at all times be a competent and reputable Warrant Agent hereunder until all the Warrants have been exercised or are no longer exercisable.
Company to Provide and Maintain Warrant Agent
                    (b) . The Warrant Agent may at any time resign by giving written notice to the Company of such intention on its part, specifying the date on which its desired resignation shall become effective; , that such date shall not be less than 60 days after the date on which such notice is given unless the Company otherwise agrees in writing. The Warrant Agent hereunder may be removed at any time by the filing with it of an instrument in writing signed by or on behalf of the Company and specifying such removal and the date when it shall become effective, which date shall not be less than 60 days after such notice is given unless the Warrant Agent otherwise agrees in writing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any resignation or removal under this Section 5.06 shall take effect upon the appointment by the Company as hereinafter provided of a successor Warrant Agent (which shall be a bank or trust company authorized under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization to exercise corporate trust powers) and the acceptance of such appointment by such successor Warrant Agent.
Resignation and Removal
provided, however
                    (c) . In the event that at any time the Warrant Agent shall resign, or shall be removed, or shall become incapable of acting, or shall be adjudged bankrupt or insolvent, or shall commence a voluntary case under the federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or under any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law or shall consent to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, custodian, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Warrant Agent or its property or affairs, or shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or shall take corporate action in furtherance of any such action, or a decree or order for relief by a court shall have been entered in respect of the Warrant Agent in an involuntary case under the federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law, or a decree or order by a court shall have been entered for the appointment of a receiver, custodian, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of the Warrant Agent or of its property or affairs, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Warrant Agent or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation, winding up or liquidation, a successor Warrant Agent, qualified as aforesaid, shall be appointed by the Company by an instrument in writing, filed with the successor Warrant Agent. Upon the appointment as aforesaid of a successor Warrant Agent and acceptance by the successor Warrant Agent of such appointment, the Warrant Agent shall cease to be Warrant Agent hereunder.
The Company to Appoint Successor
                     (d) . Any successor Warrant Agent appointed hereunder shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to its predecessor and to the Company an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon such successor Warrant Agent, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights and obligations of such predecessor with like effect as if originally named as Warrant Agent hereunder, and such predecessor, upon payment of its charges and disbursements then unpaid, shall thereupon become obligated to transfer, deliver and pay over, and such successor Warrant Agent shall be entitled to receive, all monies, securities and other property on deposit with or held by such predecessor, as Warrant Agent hereunder.
Successor to Expressly Assume Duties
                    (e) . Any corporation into which the Warrant Agent hereunder may be merged or consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger or
Successor by Merger
consolidation to which the Warrant Agent shall be a party, or any corporation to which the Warrant Agent shall sell or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of its assets and business, shall be the successor Warrant Agent under this Agreement without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto; , that such corporation shall be qualified as aforesaid.
provided, however
          Section 6.01. . Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to confer upon any Person other than the Company, the Warrant Agent and the Holders any right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement or any part hereof.
Persons Benefiting
          Section 6.02. . Holders of unexercised Warrants, as such, have no rights as stockholders and are not entitled to exercise any rights whatsoever as stockholders of the Company, including, but not limited to the rights to (i) receive dividends or other distributions except as expressly provided in this Agreement, (ii) receive notice of or vote at any meeting of the stockholders, (iii) consent to any action of the stockholders, (iv) receive notice of any other proceedings of the Company, or (v) exercise any preemptive right.
Rights of Holders
          Section 6.03. . This Agreement may be amended by the parties hereto without the consent of any Holder for the purpose of curing any ambiguity, or of curing, correcting or supplementing any defective or inconsistent provision contained herein or adding or changing any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Agreement as the Company and the Warrant Agent may deem necessary or desirable; , that such action shall not adversely affect the rights of any of the Holders. Any amendment or supplement to this Agreement that has an adverse effect on the interests of any of the Holders shall require the written consent of the Holders of a majority of the then outstanding Warrants; that the consent of each Holder affected thereby shall be required for any amendment pursuant to which (i) the Exercise Price would be changed (other than pursuant to adjustments provided for in Article IV), (ii) the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants would be decreased or the kind or amount of other property issuable upon exercise of the Warrants would be changed or decreased, as applicable (in each case, other than pursuant to adjustments provided for in Article IV), (iii) the time period during which the Warrants are exercisable would be shortened or the Holder's right to exercise the Warrants would otherwise be materially impaired or (iv) the percentage of Holders required to amend the Warrants or this Agreement would be reduced. In determining whether the Holders of the required number of Warrants have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, only Warrants outstanding at the time shall be considered in any such determination, and Warrants known to the Warrant Agent to be owned by the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding. The Company or the Warrant Agent may set a record date for any such direction, waiver or consent and only the Holders as of such record date shall be entitled to make or give such direction, waiver or consent.
Amendment
provided, however
provided further
          Section 6.04. . Any notice or communication shall be in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first-class mail addressed as follows:
Notices
          The Company or the Warrant Agent each by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
          Any notice or communication mailed to a Holder shall be mailed to the Holder at the Holder's address as it appears on the Warrant Register and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed.
          Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
          Section 6.05. . This Agreement, the Warrant Certificates and the Warrants will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          Section 6.06. . All agreements of the Company in this Agreement and the Warrant Certificates shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Warrant Agent in this Agreement shall bind its successors.
Successors
          Section 6.07. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          Section 6.08. . The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and if any clause or provision shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in whole or in part in any jurisdiction, then such invalidity or unenforceability shall affect in that jurisdiction only such clause or provision, or part thereof, and shall not in any manner affect such clause or provision in any other jurisdiction or any other clause or provision of this Agreement in any jurisdiction.
Severability
          Section 6.09. . The Company agrees that, as of the date hereof, applicable law does not require or impose any withholding or reduction for any tax or other governmental charge upon the distribution of the Warrants, and that the distribution of the Warrants shall be made free and clear of, and without reduction or withholding for, any tax or other governmental charge unless a change to applicable law requiring such a withholding or reduction occurs between the date hereof and the Closing Date (in which case the Company shall provide prompt notice of such change of law to the Holders). In the event of such a change of law, the Company, the Warrant Agent or their agents shall be entitled, but not obligated, to deduct and withhold the amount so required by withholding a portion or all of the Warrants otherwise deliverable in such amounts as they deem necessary to meet their withholding obligations, and shall also be entitled, but not obligated, to sell all or a portion of such withheld Warrants by public or private sale in such amounts and in such manner as they deem necessary and practicable to pay such taxes and charges. To the extent that Warrants are so withheld, (i) the Company, the Warrant Agent or their agents, as applicable, shall remit to the applicable tax authority the amount required to be withheld from such distribution, and (ii) the withheld Warrants shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been distributed to the Holders in respect of which such deduction and withholding was made.
Withholding
          Section 6.10. . Each Holder shall render to the Company no later than the Closing Date an Internal Revenue Service Form W-9, W-8BEN or W-8IMY, as appropriate, duly executed by an officer of such Holder.
Holder Tax Certification
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Warrant Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Warrant Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
EXHIBIT A
          [UNLESS THIS GLOBAL WARRANT IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (""), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
          TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL WARRANT SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSORS NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE WARRANT AGREEMENT REFERRED TO BELOW.]
          [THIS SECURITY AND THE COMMON STOCK, IF ANY, ISSUABLE UPON EXERCISE OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE ""), AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER:
SECURITIES ACT
          PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(D) ABOVE, THE COMPANY AND THE WARRANT AGENT RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.]
          THIS CERTIFIES THAT [CEDE & CO.] [               ], or its registered assigns, is the registered holder of [the number of warrants as set forth in the "Schedule of Increases or Decreases in Global Security" attached hereto, in accordance with the rules of the Depositary] [the number of Warrants set forth above] (the ""). Each Warrant entitles the holder thereof (the ""), at its option and subject to the provisions contained herein and in the Warrant Agreement referred to below, to purchase from LEGG MASON, INC., a Maryland corporation (including any successor thereto, the ""), a number of shares of common stock, par value of $0.10 per share, of the Company (the "") equal to the Number of Warrant Shares, at the per share exercise price of $88.00 (as such exercise price may be adjusted pursuant to Article IV of the Warrant Agreement, the ""). This Warrant Certificate shall terminate as of 5:00 p.m., New York time, on July 15, 2017 (the "") or upon the exercise or deemed exercise hereof as to all the shares of Common Stock subject hereto. The number of shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants and the Exercise Price per share shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as set forth in the Warrant Agreement.
2
3
4
5
Warrants
Holder
Company
Common Stock
Exercise Price
Expiration Date
          This Warrant Certificate is issued under and in accordance with a Warrant Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2012 (the ""), between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC (the "", which term includes any successor Warrant Agent under the Warrant Agreement), and is subject to the terms and provisions contained in the Warrant Agreement, to all of which terms and provisions the Holder of this Warrant Certificate consents by acceptance hereof. The Warrant Agreement is hereby incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof. Reference is hereby made to the Warrant Agreement for a full statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations of the Company, the Warrant Agent and the Holders of the Warrants. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Warrant Agreement. A copy of the Warrant Agreement may be obtained for inspection by the Holder hereof upon written request to the Warrant Agent, 6201 15th Avenue, Brooklyn, New York 11219, Telephone: 718-921-8200, Attention: Corporate Trust Department.
Warrant Agreement
Warrant Agent
          Subject to the terms of the Warrant Agreement, the Holder may exercise the Warrants at its option in whole or in part. As provided in the Warrant Agreement and subject to the terms and conditions therein set forth, the Warrants shall be exercisable at any time and from time to time on any Business Day on and after the Issue Date. Any Warrants that have not been exercised prior to 5:00 p.m., New York time, on the Expiration Date shall be deemed to be exercised by the Holder thereof immediately prior to such time on the Expiration Date in accordance with Section 3.04(b) of the Warrant Agreement.
          No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued upon the exercise of the Warrants, but the Company shall pay an amount in cash equal to the VWAP of the Common Stock on the last Trading Day of the Observation Period, the fraction of a share of Common Stock that would be issuable on the exercise of any Warrant, computed to the nearest whole cent.
multiplied by
          All shares of Common Stock issuable by the Company upon the exercise of the Warrants shall, upon such issue, be duly and validly issued and fully paid and non-assessable.
          The Warrants do not entitle any Holder hereof to any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company.
          The Warrants, and any claim, controversy or dispute arising under or related to the Warrants, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York.
          In the case of any conflict between this Warrant Certificate and the Warrant Agreement, the provisions of the Warrant Agreement shall control and govern.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Warrant Certificate to be duly executed.
          This Warrant Certificate shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until it shall have been countersigned by the Warrant Agent.
DATED:
Countersigned:
ATTACHMENT 1
          The undersigned hereby irrevocably elects to exercise ____________________ Warrants to acquire shares of Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share, of LEGG MASON, INC. (the ""), or cash in lieu of such shares at the Company's election, at an exercise price per share of Common Stock of $88.00 (as such exercise may be adjusted pursuant to Article IV of the Warrant Agreement) and otherwise on the terms and conditions specified in the within Warrant Certificate and the Warrant Agreement therein referred to, surrenders all right, title and interest in the number of Warrants exercised hereby to LEGG MASON, INC. and directs that the cash or shares of Common Stock payable or deliverable upon the exercise of such Warrants, and interests in any Global Warrant or Definitive Warrant representing unexercised Warrants, be registered or placed in the name and at the address specified below and delivered thereto. If other than the registered holder of the Warrants, the undersigned must pay all transfer taxes, assessments or similar governmental charges in connection with any such transfer or exchange.
Common Stock
          For value received, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto _________________________________________________ (________) warrants ("") to purchase shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of LEGG MASON, INC. (the "") evidenced by the attached Warrant Certificate and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint ____________ attorney to transfer the Warrant, or such portion as is transferred hereby, on the books of the Company with full power of substitution in the premises. The undersigned requests said attorney to issue to the transferee a Warrant Certificate evidencing such transfer and to issue to the undersigned a new Warrant Certificate evidencing Warrants for the balance not so transferred, if any.
Warrants
Company
In connection with any transfer of the within Warrant occurring prior to the Resale Restriction Termination Date, as defined in the Warrant Agreement governing such Warrant, the undersigned confirms that such Warrant is being transferred:
o
To Legg Mason, Inc. or a subsidiary thereof; or
o
Pursuant to a registration statement that has become or been declared effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; or
o
Pursuant to and in compliance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; or
o
Pursuant to and in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any other available exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Name in which new Warrant(s) should be registered:
The initial number of Warrants represented by the Global Warrants is [          ].
The following increases or decreases in this Global Security have been made:

Exhibit 4.2
          REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of May 23, 2012, by and between LEGG MASON, INC., a Maryland corporation (the ""), and KKR I-L LIMITED (the "").
Agreement
Company
KKR Holder
          This Agreement is made pursuant to the Note Exchange Agreement, dated May 16, 2012 (the ""), by and among the Company, the Holders named on Schedule I thereto (the "Sellers") and, for limited purposes, the Sponsor (as defined below), which provides for the repurchase by the Company from the Sellers of $1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (the ""). In consideration of the repurchase of the Notes, the Termination (as defined in the Note Exchange Agreement) and the amendment of certain agreements that were entered into when the Notes were issued, the Company desires to issue to the KKR Holder, Citibank, N.A., Credit Suisse International and HSBC Bank USA, National Association warrants ("") to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock (as defined below). The Warrants, together with the shares of Common Stock deliverable upon exercise of the Warrants, are referred to herein as the "." In order to induce the KKR Holder to enter into the Note Exchange Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Note Exchange Agreement.
Note Exchange Agreement
Notes
Warrants
Securities
          In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          1. .
Definitions
          As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
          "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
1933 Act
          " shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of l934, as amended.
1934 Act"
          "" shall have the meaning given to it in the Note Exchange Agreement.
Affiliate
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
          " or "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 of the rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act.
Beneficially Own"
Beneficial Ownership
          "" shall mean any calendar day on which the New York Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the NASDAQ Global Market and the Securities and Exchange Commission are open for trading or business, as the case may be.
Business Day
          "" shall have the meaning given to it in the Note Exchange Agreement.
Closing Date
          "" shall mean any shares of common stock, $0.10 par value, of the Company and any other shares of common stock as may constitute "Common Stock" for purposes of the Warrant Agreement.
Common Stock
          "" means a distribution of Warrants or Common Stock that are Registrable Securities in connection with which Holders have invoked their rights for cooperation from the Company under Section 5 of this Agreement.
Company Supported Distribution
          "" shall mean The Depository Trust Company and its successors or assigns, or any other depositary appointed by the Company; , that such appointed depositary must have an address in the Borough of Manhattan, in The City of New York, unless no such depositary is available.
Depositary
provided, however
          "" shall mean the period beginning on the date the Shelf Registration Statement is effective pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof and ending on the earlier of (i) such time as all the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities and (ii) the date that is 90 days following the Expiration Date.
Effectiveness Period
          "" shall have the meaning given to it in the Warrant Agreement.
Expiration Date
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act.
Free Writing Prospectus
          "" shall mean the KKR Holder, for so long as it owns any Registrable Securities, and each Affiliate of the Sponsor or the KKR Holder that Beneficially Owns Registrable Securities.
Holder
          "" shall mean an initial purchaser or placement agent in connection with the offer or sale of Securities pursuant to a Company Supported Distribution effected under Rule 144A.
Initial Purchaser
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
          "" shall mean Holders holding over 50% of the aggregate number of Warrants constituting Registrable Securities outstanding; that, for the purpose of this definition, a holder of shares of Common Stock delivered upon exercise of the Warrants, shall be deemed to hold an aggregate number of Warrants (in addition to the number of Warrants held by such holder) equal to the quotient of (A) the number of such shares of Common Stock held by such holder and (B) the Number of Warrant Shares in effect at the time of the exercise of the Warrants as determined in accordance with the Warrant Agreement; that whenever the consent or approval of the Majority Holders or of a specified percentage of the Holders of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Warrants or Common Stock delivered upon exercise of the Warrants that are held by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company shall be disregarded, and Warrants held by any Holder shall be included in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Majority Holders or such specified percentage of the Holders of Registrable Securities.
Majority Holders
provided
provided further
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Warrant Agreement.
Number of Warrant Shares
          "" shall mean an individual, partnership (general or limited), corporation, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
          "" shall mean the prospectus relating to the Securities included in a Shelf Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including any such prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to a prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and in each case including all materials incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
          "" shall mean all or any of the Securities; , that such Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (i) a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to such Securities shall have become effective under the 1933 Act and such Securities shall have been sold or transferred pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, (ii) such Securities have been transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the 1933 Act (or any successor provision thereto), or (iii) such Securities shall have ceased to be outstanding.
Registrable Securities
provided, however
          "" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including: (i) all SEC registration and filing fees, (ii) in the case of a Company Supported Distribution for the benefit of the Holders, all reasonable fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel for any Underwriters, Initial Purchasers or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any of the Registrable Securities), (iii) all expenses of the Company in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Shelf Registration Statement and any Prospectus, and, in the case of a Company Supported Distribution, any offering or information memorandum, any amendments or supplements thereto, any securities sales agreements and any other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing, if any, of any of the Registrable Securities on any securities exchange or exchanges, (v) all rating agency fees, if any, (vi) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and of the independent public accountants of the Company, including, in the case of a Company Supported Distribution, the expenses of any "comfort letters", (vii) the reasonable fees and expenses of the Warrant Agent, and any escrow agent or custodian, and (viii) the reasonable fees and expenses of a single counsel to the Holders in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement and in connection with a Company Supported Distribution, which counsel shall be selected by the Majority Holders, but excluding any underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder and, except as provided under clause (viii) above, all reasonable expenses and fees for all counsel and other professionals representing the Holders in connection with the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities.
Registration or Offering Expenses
          "" means Rule 144A under the 1933 Act.
Rule 144A
          "" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency or government body performing the functions currently performed by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
          "" shall mean the date 180 days after the Closing Date.
Shelf Effectiveness Deadline
          "" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2.1.
Shelf Registration
          "" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.1 of this Agreement which covers all of the Registrable Securities on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all materials incorporated by reference therein; , that a registration statement shall not be deemed a Shelf Registration Statement until such time as it includes a Prospectus relating to the Securities.
Shelf Registration Statement
provided, however
          "" shall mean Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P.
Sponsor
          "" shall mean an offer and sale of Securities that are Registrable Securities of at least the Threshold Amount by one or more Holders to purchasers that are not Affiliates of the Company (other than the Sponsor or its Affiliates to the extent they are deemed to be "Affiliates" of the Company at such time), where such offer and sale is made pursuant to either Rule 144A or pursuant to a bona fide public offering made pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
Substantial Distribution
          "" shall mean, with respect to an offer and sale of Securities that are Registrable Securities, an aggregate of at least 4,687,500 Warrants (calculated, with respect to Common Stock as set forth in the definition of "Majority Holders"); ,, if the proposed offer and sale of Securities relates to all of the Securities held by a Holder and its Affiliates, "Threshold Amount" shall mean an aggregate of at least 1,420,454 Warrants.
Threshold Amount
provided
however
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Warrant Agreement.
Warrant Agent
          "" means the Warrant Agreement dated as of the date hereof between the Company and the Warrant Agent.
Warrant Agreement
          "" shall mean an underwriter, as defined in the 1933 Act, of the Securities in connection with an offering thereof under a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to and in accordance with a Company Supported Distribution.
Underwriter
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act.
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
          2. .
Registration Under the 1933 Act
                    2.1 Shelf Registration.
                              (a) No later than 90 days after the Closing Date the Company shall, at its cost, file with the SEC a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders that have provided the Questionnaire and the other information pursuant to Section 2.1(d). The Company shall, at its cost, use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to become or be declared effective under the 1933 Act as promptly as is reasonably practicable after such Shelf Registration Statement is filed, but in no event later than the Shelf Effectiveness Deadline. If the Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer at the time of filing the Shelf Registration Statement with the SEC, such Shelf Registration Statement shall be designated by the Company as an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement.
                              (b) The Company shall, at its cost, use its commercially reasonable efforts, subject to Section 2.4, to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the 1933 Act in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders during the Effectiveness Period. Upon the expiration of an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement, so long as it remains a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer the Company shall file a new Shelf Registration Statement which shall be designated by the Company as an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement.
                              (c) The Company shall cause the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, as of the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement or such amendment or supplement, (i) to comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the 1933 Act, and (ii) not to contain any untrue statement of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made) not misleading.
                              (d) Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, no Holder of Registrable Securities may include any of its Registrable Securities in the Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement unless the Holder furnishes to the Company a fully completed notice and questionnaire in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "") and such other information in writing as the Company may reasonably request in writing for use in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement and in any application to be filed with or under state securities laws. At least 30 business days prior to the filing of the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company will provide notice to the Holders of its intention to file the Shelf Registration Statement. In order to be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus at the time of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder must no later than 20 days following notice by the Company as set forth in the previous sentence, furnish in writing the completed Questionnaire and such other information that the Company may reasonably request in writing, if any, to the Company and the Company will include the information from the completed Questionnaire and such other information, if any, in the Shelf Registration Statement and the Prospectus, as necessary and in a manner, so that upon effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement the Holder will be permitted to deliver the Prospectus to purchasers of the Holder's Registrable Securities. Each Holder shall update such information upon the written request of the Company. From and after the date that the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective, upon receipt of a completed Questionnaire and such other information that the Company may reasonably request in writing, if any, the Company shall (i) within 20 Business Days after receipt of such Questionnaire and such other information, use commercially reasonable efforts to file any
Questionnaire
amendments or supplements to the Shelf Registration Statement necessary for such Holder to be named as a selling securityholder in the Prospectus contained therein to permit such Holder to deliver the Prospectus to purchasers of the Holder's Securities, that if a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement is required, the Company shall not be obligated to file more than one such amendment for all such holders during one fiscal quarter, that if such Questionnaire and such other information is delivered during a Suspension Period, the Company shall so inform the Holder delivering such Questionnaire and such other information and shall take the action described in this Section 2.1(d) (i) within five Business Days after the expiration of the Suspension Period and (ii) if the Company files a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such post-effective amendment to become or be declared effective under the 1933 Act as promptly as practicable. Holders that do not deliver a completed written Questionnaire and such other information, as provided for in this Section 2.1(d), will not be named as selling securityholders in the Prospectus. Each Holder named as a selling securityholder in the Prospectus agrees to promptly furnish to the Company in writing all information required to be disclosed in order to make information previously furnished to the Company by the Holder not materially misleading and any other information regarding such Holder and the distribution of such Holder's Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing for inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement.
provided
provided, further,
                              (e) Each Holder agrees that if such Holder wishes to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus it will do so only in accordance with Section 2.1(d) and subject to Section 2.4. Each Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement without delivering, or causing to be delivered, a Prospectus (excluding those materials incorporated by reference therein) to the purchaser thereof or complying with Rule 153 under the 1933 Act and, following termination of the Effectiveness Period, to notify the Company, within ten days of a written request by the Company, of the amount of Registrable Securities sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
                              (f) The Company agrees that, in the context of a registered Company Supported Distribution, and only for the period of 30 days from the earlier of the public announcement or commencement of marketing efforts with respect to such Company Supported Distribution, unless it obtains the prior consent of the managing Underwriter (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), and each Holder agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Company, it will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a Free Writing Prospectus required to be filed with the SEC. The Company represents that any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus prepared by it or authorized by it in writing for use by such Holder will be delivered to each such Holder and will not include any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus and that any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when taken together with the information in the Shelf Registration Statement and the Prospectus, will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
          The Company agrees to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement if required by the 1933 Act or the rules and regulations thereunder or by the instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company or, to the extent the Company does not reasonably object, as reasonably requested by the KKR Holder with respect to information relating to the KKR Holder or by the Warrant Agent on behalf of the Holders covered by such Shelf Registration Statement with respect to information relating to such Holders, and to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after it is used or filed with the SEC; , , that any such amendment or supplement filed by the Company via the EDGAR system will be deemed to have been furnished to the Holders of Registrable Securities.
provided
however
                    2.2 . The Company shall pay all Registration or Offering Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Section 2.1 and, without duplication, in connection with a Company Supported Distribution pursuant to Section 5. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting and placement discounts and commissions, agency and placement fees, brokers commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities.
Expenses
                    2.3 . After a Shelf Registration Statement is effective, if the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, such Shelf Registration Statement will be deemed not to have been effective during the period of such interference, until the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement may legally resume.
Effectiveness
                    2.4 . Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Company may suspend the use of any Prospectus for a period not to exceed an aggregate of 60 days in any 90-day period or an aggregate of 120 calendar days in any 360-day period, as such period may be reduced pursuant to Section 5(b) hereof (each, a ""), if the Company shall have determined in good faith that because of valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including without limitation plans for a registered public offering, an acquisition or other proposed or pending corporate developments and similar events or because of filings with the SEC, it is in the best interests of the Company to suspend such use, and prior to suspending such use the Company provides the Holders with written notice of such suspension, which notice need not specify the nature of the event giving rise to such suspension (and, upon receipt of such notice, each Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement until such Holder is advised in writing that the Prospectus may be used, which notice the Company agrees to provide promptly following the lapse of the event or circumstances giving rise to such suspension), that 60 days shall be increased to 75 days if the Company shall have determined in good faith that the disclosure of previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction would be reasonably likely to impede its ability to consummate such transaction. Each Holder shall keep confidential any communications received by it from the Company regarding the suspension of the use of the Prospectus (including the fact of the suspension), except as required by applicable law.
Suspension
Suspension Period
provided
          3. .
Registration Procedures
          In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to the Shelf Registration, the Company shall, subject to the rights of the Company to invoke and maintain a Suspension Period in accordance with Section 2.4 of this Agreement without being in violation of any of the provisions hereof:
                              (a) not less than five days prior to filing the Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus (other than amendments and supplements that do nothing more than name Holders and provide information with respect thereto), furnish to the Holders or any Underwriter or designee thereof and one special counsel to the Holders or any Underwriter or designee thereof copies of all such documents proposed to be filed and use its commercially reasonable efforts to reflect in each such document when so filed with the SEC such comments as the Holders or any Underwriter or designee thereof and such special counsel to the Holders or any Underwriter or designee thereof reasonably shall propose within three days of the delivery of such copies to the Holders or any Underwriter or designee thereof and counsel to the Holders or any Underwriter or designee thereof. In addition, if any Holder that has provided the Questionnaire and the other information required by Section 2.1(d) shall so request in writing, a reasonable time prior to filing any such documents, the Company shall furnish to such Holder copies of all such documents proposed to be filed and use its commercially reasonable efforts to reflect in each such document when so filed with the SEC such comments as such Holder reasonably shall propose within three Business Days of the delivery of such copies to such Holder;
                              (b) ensure that (i) the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming part thereof and any amendment or supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the 1933 Act, and (ii) the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading;
                              (c) use its commercially reasonable efforts at all times, except as provided in Section 2.4, to take all steps necessary to effect and maintain the registration of all of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement;
                              (d) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to the Shelf Registration Statement as may be necessary under applicable law to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective for the Effectiveness Period, subject to Section 2.4; and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed in compliance with Rule 424 (or any similar provision then in force) under the 1933 Act and use its commercially reasonable efforts to comply during the Effectiveness Period with the provisions of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder required to enable the disposition of all Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution (as provided to the Company in the Questionnaires) by the selling Holders thereof;
                              (e) (i) notify in writing each Holder of Registrable Securities of the filing of a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement and of when any such Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement has become effective; (ii) during the Effectiveness Period, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities that has provided the Questionnaires and the information required by Section 2.1(d) and to each Underwriter, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto and such other documents as such Holder or Underwriter may reasonably request in writing, including financial statements and schedules and, if such Holder or Underwriter so requests, all exhibits thereto in connection with the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities; and (iii) subject to Section 2.4 and to any notice by the Company in accordance with Section 3(g) of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Sections 3(g) (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders and Underwriters of Registrable Securities that has provided the Questionnaire and the other information required by Section 2.1(d) in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by such Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in the manner set forth therein;
                              (f) use its commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the Holders and Underwriters in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement and each Underwriter shall reasonably request in writing, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to maintain such registration or qualification and to enable each such Holder and Underwriter to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; , that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(f), or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
provided, however
                              (g) notify as promptly as reasonably practicable each Holder of Registrable Securities under a Shelf Registration that has provided the Questionnaire and the other information required by Section 2.1(d) and, if requested by such Holder, confirm such advice in writing promptly (i) of any request, following the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement under the 1933 Act, by the SEC or any state securities authority for post-effective amendments and supplements to a Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Shelf Registration Statement has become effective, (ii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iii) of the occurrence (but not the nature of or details concerning) of any event or the discovery of any facts during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective which makes any statement made in such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading, (, , that no notice by the Company shall be required pursuant to this clause (iii) in the event that the Company either promptly files a Prospectus supplement to update the Prospectus or a Form 8-K or other appropriate 1934 Act report that is incorporated by reference into
provided
however
the Shelf Registration Statement, which, in either case, contains the requisite information that results in such Shelf Registration Statement no longer containing any untrue statement of material fact or omitting to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading), (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose and (v) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement would be required by applicable law;
                              (h) provided a Holder (collectively with its Affiliates) then holds at least 1,420,454 Registrable Securities (calculated with respect to Common Stock, as set forth in the definition of "Majority Holders"), as promptly as reasonably practicable furnish to such Holder and any Underwriter or designee thereof (i) copies of any comment letters received from the SEC with respect to a Shelf Registration Statement and, if requested by such Holder in connection with an offering of Registrable Securities, copies of any comment letters received from the SEC with respect to any documents incorporated therein and (ii) any other request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments or supplements to a Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information with respect to the Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus;
                              (i) use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement or the qualification of the securities therein for sale in any jurisdiction at the earliest practicable moment or, if any such order or suspension is made effective during any Suspension Period, at the earliest practicable moment after the Suspension Period;
                              (j) upon the occurrence of any event or the discovery of any facts, each as contemplated by Sections 3(g)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event or within the time period required by Section 2.4, use its commercially reasonable efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain at the time of such delivery any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and, at such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material fact or to include any omitted material fact, the Company agrees promptly to notify each Holder that has provided the Questionnaire and the other information required by Section 2.1(d) of such determination and to furnish each Holder such number of copies of the Prospectus as amended or supplemented, as such Holder may reasonably request;
                              (k) use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause all Registrable Securities which are Common Stock to be listed on any securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which shares of Common Stock are then listed;
                              (l) make generally available to its security holders earning statements covering at least 12 months (which need not be audited) satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of
the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder as soon as reasonably practicable and, in any event, no later than 45 days after the end of a 12-month period (or 90 days, if such period is a fiscal year), or such longer period as may be permitted under the 1934 Act, beginning with the first month of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement;
                              (m) make a reasonable effort to provide such information as is required for any filings required to be made with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; and
                              (n) not later than the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement, provide a CUSIP number for the Securities registered under the Shelf Registration Statement and provide the Warrant Agent with certificates for such Securities, free of any restrictive legends, in a form eligible for deposit with the Warrant Agent as custodian for Depositary.
          Without limiting the provisions of Section 2.1(d), the Company may (as a condition to such Holder's participation in the Shelf Registration) require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing. Each Holder agrees promptly to furnish to the Company in writing all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Holder not misleading, any other information regarding such Holder and the distribution of such Registrable Securities as may be required to be disclosed in the Prospectus or Shelf Registration Statement under applicable law or pursuant to SEC comments and any information otherwise reasonably required by the Company to comply with applicable law or regulations.
          Each Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Section 3(g)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Prospectus included in the Shelf Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(j) or written notice from the Company that the Shelf Registration Statement is again effective and no amendment or supplement is needed, and, if so directed by the Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies in such Holder's possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities at the time of receipt of such notice.
          4. .
Indemnification; Contribution
                              (a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the KKR Holder, each Holder who provided the Questionnaire and the other information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(d) and each of their respective directors, officers and employees and agents and each Person, if any, who controls the KKR Holder or such Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act (each of the foregoing is referred to herein as an "") (i) against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such indemnified party may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below)
Indemnification by the Company
indemnified party
arises out of or is based upon (x) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Shelf Registration Statement (or, in each case, any amendment or supplement thereto), including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (y) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (z) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus prepared by it or authorized by it in writing for use by such Holder (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and (ii) against any and all reasonable out-of-pocket expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under subparagraph (i) above; and to reimburse each indemnified party for any and all expenses (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the indemnified parties) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense incurred by an indemnified party to the extent, but only to the extent, (A) arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such indemnified party expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or, in each case, any amendment or supplement thereto), any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or (B) use of a Prospectus during a period when use of such Prospectus has been suspended pursuant to Section 2.4 hereof, that such Holder has received notice of such suspension. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 4(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
provided, however
provided
                              (b) . Each Holder who has provided the Questionnaire and the other information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(d), severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the KKR Holder and the other selling Holders who have provided the Questionnaire and the other information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(d) and each of their respective directors, officers, employees and agents and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, the KKR Holder or any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 4(a), as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Shelf Registration Statement (or, in each case, any amendment thereto), any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus included therein (or any amendment or
Indemnification by the Holders
supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information with respect to such Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or, in each case, any amendment thereto), such preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
                              (c) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 4 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 4, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the failure to so notify the indemnifying party (1) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure materially prejudices the indemnifying party and (2) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; , if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict will arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be material legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties. Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 4 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (other than one local counsel), reasonably approved by the indemnifying party, representing the indemnified parties who are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures
provided, however
                              (d) . The indemnifying party under this Section 4 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, which shall not be withheld unreasonably, but if settled with such consent or if there is a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the
Settlements
foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 4(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 45 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (x) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (y) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
                              (e) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 4 is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
          The relative fault of the indemnifying parties on the one hand and the indemnified parties and the Holders on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, or by the Holders and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
          The Company and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 4 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 4. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 4 shall be deemed to include any reasonable out-of-pocket legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
          Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 4, no Holder shall be required to indemnify or contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages which such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
          No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
          For purposes of this Section 4, each director, officer, employee and agent of any Holder, or each Person, if any, who controls any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Holder, and each director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
                              (f) The provisions of this Section 4 shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or the Company or any indemnified person referred to in this Section 4, and shall survive the sale by a Holder of securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement.
          5.
Distributions by Holders
                              (a) If the Company shall at any time receive a written request from Holders then able to participate in a Substantial Distribution that in the aggregate have Beneficial Ownership of at least the Threshold Amount of Registrable Securities (i) that the Company assist in a Substantial Distribution, (ii) stating that such Holders have a current bona fide intent to effectuate a Substantial Distribution and (iii) providing verification that such Holders Beneficially Own at least the Threshold Amount of Registrable Securities, the Company will (x) provide reasonable notice of the request to each Holder pursuant to which the Company will offer to include such Holder's Registrable Securities in such Substantial Distribution upon a written request from such Holder received by the Company within 10 days of such notice (such request to specify the number of such Holder's Registrable Securities that such Holder requests be included in such Substantial Distribution) and (y) provide such Holders (including such Holders that submitted a written request within such ten-day period) with its reasonable cooperation, as requested by such Holders, to facilitate such Substantial Distribution; , that the Company shall only be required to assist the Holders with an aggregate of three such Substantial Distributions; , , that the Company shall not be required to assist any Holders with a Substantial Distribution more than twice in any 365 day period; and , , that the Company will only be required to provide Holders with such cooperation until the earlier of consummation of the Company Supported Distribution or 45 days following the earlier of the public announcement or commencement of marketing efforts with respect to such distribution. Under any circumstances and for such periods as the Company would be permitted to initiate a Suspension Period pursuant to Section 2.4, the Company shall have the right to delay the commencement (e.g., the taking of any external activity, but not including internal, non-public preparatory work) of a Company Supported Distribution (a "") for a period of days which, when aggregated with any pending or prior Suspension Periods and Delay Periods, would not exceed the 60 and 120-day limits set forth in Section 2.4 without, in the context of a registered Company Supported Distribution, formally initiating a Suspension Period, provided that any such Delay Periods may not exceed and shall reduce (on a day-for-day basis) the 60 and 120-day limits referred to in Section 2.4 unless otherwise agreed by the Majority Holders participating in such registered Company Supported Distribution In addition,
provided
provided
further
provided
further
Delay Period
under no circumstances shall the Company be required to commence a Company Supported Distribution at any time during the three week period immediately preceding the scheduled public disclosure of results for any quarter (the "") and any delay during that time shall not be counted against the Suspension Period. If a request for a Company Supported Distribution has been made before any Delay Period or Pre-Announcement Period, however, the Company will provide reasonable cooperation as is reasonably requested during such Delay Period or Pre-Announcement Period to permit such Company Supported Distribution to be commenced promptly following the expiration of such Delay Period or Pre-Announcement Period. For the avoidance of doubt, any Company Supported Distribution shall not require any pre-clearance under any stock trading policies of the Company in effect at such time.
Pre-Announcement Periods
          For purposes of the three Substantial Distributions with which the Company is required to provide the Holders with assistance, it shall be deemed to be a Substantial Distribution for which the Company has provided assistance if the Holders request such assistance and the Substantial Distribution is cancelled, terminated or otherwise not consummated, unless such cancellation, termination or failure to consummate such Substantial Distribution is based upon material adverse information concerning the Company of which the Holders initiating such Substantial Distribution were not aware at the time of such request.
                              (b) In furtherance of the Company's undertakings, and subject to the limitations in Section 5(a), the Company agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to enter into such customary agreements (on terms reasonably acceptable to the Company) and take all other customary and appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of the Registrable Securities being offered and sold in a Substantial Distribution by the Holders in which the Company provides cooperation, including:
                    If any of the Registrable Securities to be sold in a Substantial Distribution are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the Underwriter or Underwriters and Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers that will manage such offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company.
          (h) This Section 5 shall terminate, and the Holders shall have no rights pursuant to this Section 5, upon the earlier to occur of (i) the date on which the Holders collectively Beneficially Own less than 1,420,454 Registrable Securities (calculated with respect to Common Stock as set forth under the definition of "Majority Holders") and (ii) the termination of the Effectiveness Period.
          6. .
Miscellaneous
                    6.1 . The Company has not entered into and the Company will not after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement with respect to its securities which conflicts with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not for the term of this Agreement conflict with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
No Inconsistent Agreements
                    6.2 . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Majority Holders; if the proposed amendment, qualification, modification, supplement or waiver, as the case may be, has a material and disproportionate adverse effect on certain Holders as compared to the remaining Holders, the consent of the Holders so affected will be required in addition to the consent of the Majority Holders; , , that no amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent with respect to Section 4 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder; and , that the provisions of this Section 6.2 may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of each Holder, except that any provision of this Section 6.2 which provides that an amendment to this Agreement may be made upon the written consent of the Majority Holders may itself be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and
Amendments and Waivers
provided, however,
provided
further
provided, further
waivers or consents to departures from any such provision may be given if the Company obtains the written consent of the Majority Holders. Notwithstanding the foregoing (except the foregoing provisos), (i) a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose Registrable Securities are being sold pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may be given by the Majority Holders, determined on the basis of the Registrable Securities being sold rather than registered under such Shelf Registration Statement and (ii) this Agreement may be amended by a written agreement between the Company and the Majority Holders, without the consent of the Holders of the Registrable Securities, in order to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained herein, provided that no such amendment shall adversely affect the interest of the Holders of Registrable Securities. Each Holder of Registrable Securities outstanding at the time of any amendment, modification, waiver or consent pursuant to this Section 6.2, shall be bound by such amendment, modification, waiver or consent, whether or not any notice or writing indicating such amendment, modification, waiver or consent is delivered to such Holder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Section 5 may only be amended, qualified or supplemented if approved by the Holders.
                   6.3  . All notices, consents and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, registered first-class mail, facsimile, any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery or by electronic delivery (a) if to a Holder, in the manner set forth in the Warrant Agreement; and (b) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Note Exchange Agreement, and thereafter at such other address of which notice is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6.3.
Notices
          All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered in person or by private courier with receipt, if telefaxed when verbal or email confirmation from the recipient is received, or three (3) days after being deposited in the United States mail, first-class, registered or certified, return receipt requested, with postage paid.
          Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications to any Holder shall be deemed to have been duly given, if such notice has been duly given to the Warrant Agent under the Warrant Agreement, at the address specified in such Warrant Agreement.
                    6.4 . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, the Holders, their respective successors and the indemnified persons referred to in Section 4; that in no event shall any Person who Beneficially Owns or otherwise owns or holds any Registrable Securities, other than a Holder, have any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement; , , that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Note Exchange Agreement or the Warrant Agreement. Any Registrable Securities acquired by a Holder in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities, such Holder shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Note Exchange Agreement and the Warrant Agreement, and such Holder shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
Successors
provided
provided
further
                    6.5 . Each Holder of Registrable Securities shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the KKR Holder, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries
                    6.6 . Without limiting the remedies available to the KKR Holder and the other Holders, the Company acknowledges that any failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Section 2.1 may result in material irreparable injury to the KKR Holder or the other Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it may not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the KKR Holder or any other Holder may seek such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's obligations under Section 2.1.
Specific Enforcement
                    6.7 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
                    6.8 . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
                    6.9 . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. THE PARTIES HERETO EACH HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT.
GOVERNING LAW
                    6.10 . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
                    6.11 . This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
                    6.12 . The words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement will refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and section and subsection references are to this Agreement unless otherwise specified. The headings in this Agreement are included for convenience of reference only and will not limit or otherwise affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they will be
Interpretation
deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." The phrases "the date of this Agreement," "the date hereof" and terms of similar import, unless the context otherwise requires, will be deemed to refer to the date set forth in the first paragraph of this Agreement. The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms and to the masculine as well as to the feminine and neuter genders of such term. Any agreement, instrument or statute defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such agreement, instrument or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of agreements or instruments) by waiver or consent and (in the case of statutes) by succession of comparable successor statutes and references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein. All matters to be agreed to by any party hereto must be agreed to in writing by such party unless otherwise indicated herein.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
EXHIBIT A
          The undersigned beneficial owner (the "") of the Warrants (the "") of Legg Mason, Inc. (the "") or the shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share, issuable upon exercise of the Warrants (the "" and, together with the Warrants, the "") hereby gives notice to the Company of its intention to sell or otherwise dispose of Registrable Securities beneficially owned by it and listed below in Item 3 (unless otherwise specified under Item 3) pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. The undersigned, by signing and returning this Selling Securityholder Questionnaire, understands that it will be bound by the terms and conditions of this Selling Securityholder Questionnaire and the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2012, by and between the Company and KKR I-L Limited.
Selling Securityholder
Warrants
Company
Common Stock
Registrable Securities
          Selling security holders that do not complete this Questionnaire and deliver it to the Company as provided below will not be named selling security holders in the prospectus and therefore will not be permitted to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
          Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the undersigned has agreed to indemnify and hold harmless the Company's directors, the Company's officers and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), from and against certain losses arising in connection with statements concerning the undersigned made in the Shelf Registration Statement or the related prospectus in reliance upon the information provided in this Selling Securityholder Questionnaire. The undersigned hereby acknowledges its obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement to indemnify and hold harmless certain persons set forth therein.
Exchange Act
          Certain legal consequences arise from being named a selling security holder in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related prospectus. Accordingly, holders and beneficial holders are advised to consult their own securities law counsel regarding the consequences of being named or not named as a selling security holder in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related prospectus.
          The undersigned hereby provides the following information to the Company and represents and warrants that such information is accurate and complete:
          The undersigned Selling Securityholder acknowledges that it understands its obligations to comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules thereunder relating to stock manipulation, particularly Regulation M thereunder (or any successor rules or regulations), in connection with any offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf
Registration Agreement. The undersigned agrees that neither it nor any person acting on its behalf will engage in any transaction in violation of such provisions.
          Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed under certain circumstances to indemnify the Selling Securityholder against certain liabilities.
          In accordance with the undersigned's obligation under the Registration Rights Agreement to provide such information as may be required by law or by the staff of the Commission for inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement, the undersigned agrees to promptly notify the Company of any inaccuracies or changes in the information provided herein that may occur subsequent to the date hereof at any time while the Shelf Registration Statement remains effective. All notices hereunder and pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement shall be made in writing, by hand-delivery, first-class mail, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery to the address set forth below.
          By signing below, the undersigned consents to the disclosure of the information contained herein in its answers to Items (1) through (9) above and the inclusion of such information in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related prospectus. The undersigned understands that such information will be relied upon by the Company in connection with the preparation or amendment of the Shelf Registration Statement and the related prospectus.
          By signing below, the undersigned agrees that if the Company notifies the undersigned that Shelf Registration Statement is not available, the undersigned will suspend use of the prospectus until notice from the Company that the prospectus is again available.
          Once this Selling Securityholder Questionnaire is executed by the undersigned and received by the Company, the terms of this Selling Securityholder Questionnaire, and the representations, warranties and agreements contained herein, shall be binding on, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the respective successors, heirs, personal representatives, and assigns of the Company and the undersigned with respect to the Registrable Securities beneficially owned by the undersigned and listed in Item (3) above. This Selling Securityholder Questionnaire shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of New York.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, by authority duly given, has caused this Selling Securityholder Questionnaire to be executed and delivered either in person or by its duly authorized agent.

Exhibit 10.1
May 23, 2012
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. 9 West 57 Street New York, NY 10019
th
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Reference is made to that certain letter agreement (the "") dated as of January 14, 2008 between Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. ("") and Legg Mason, Inc. (""). In connection with the acquisition by one or more affiliates of KKR (the "") of warrants (the "") to purchase shares of LM's common stock, par value $0.10 per share (""), having the terms set forth in the warrant agreement dated as of May 23, 2012 (the ""), and as a condition to LM's execution of the Note Exchange Agreement of even date herewith (the ""), LM and KKR hereby enter into this letter agreement (this "") amending and restating the Standstill Agreement as follows.
Standstill Agreement
KKR
LM
Transaction
Warrants
Common Stock
Warrant Agreement
Note Exchange Agreement
Agreement
          KKR agrees, during the period (the "") from the date hereof until such time as neither KKR nor any of its affiliates beneficially owns or Owns any Warrants or a number of shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of any Warrants that exceeds 4.9% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, that it and its Representatives will not, directly or indirectly, unless consented to in advance by the Chief Executive Officer or the lead independent director of LM: (a) effect or seek, offer or propose (whether publicly or otherwise) to effect, or announce any intention to effect or cause or participate in or in any way assist, facilitate or encourage any other Person to effect or seek, offer or propose (whether publicly or otherwise) to effect or participate in, (i) any acquisition of any securities (or beneficial ownership thereof), or rights or options to acquire any securities (or beneficial ownership thereof), or any assets, indebtedness or businesses of LM or any of its affiliates, , that KKR and its affiliates may acquire beneficial ownership or Ownership of (A) any or all of the Warrants issuable by LM pursuant to the Note Exchange Agreement, (B) any shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of Warrants pursuant to the terms of the Warrant Agreement or upon the conversion of any 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 of LM (the "") issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of January 31, 2008, between The Bank of New York, as trustee, and LM (the ""), (C) shares of Common Stock that KKR or its affiliates acquire from LM in connection with any stock split or subdivision of common shares of LM that are already held by them at the time of such acquisition, (D) shares of capital stock of LM (other than Common Stock), evidences of LM's indebtedness or other assets or property or rights, or warrants to acquire shares of capital stock of LM or other securities, in each case, that KKR or its affiliates acquire from LM pursuant to the Warrant Agreement or the Indenture in connection
Standstill Period
provided, however
Convertible Notes
Indenture
with any distribution thereof by LM to holders of the Common Stock and (E) any securities of LM, or rights or options to acquire any securities of LM, to the extent reasonably estimated to reduce or close out any short position or "put equivalent position" (within the meaning of Rule 16a-1 under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "")) effected to monetize or hedge any Warrants or Convertible Notes that are Owned or beneficially owned by KKR or any of its affiliates, (ii) any tender or exchange offer, consolidation, business combination, acquisition, merger, joint venture or other business combination involving LM, any of its affiliates or any of the assets of LM or its affiliates, (iii) any recapitalization, stock dividend, restructuring, liquidation, dissolution or other extraordinary transaction with respect to LM or any of its affiliates or (iv) any "solicitation" of "proxies" (as such terms are used in the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission) to vote any voting securities of LM or any of its affiliates or consents to any action from any holder of any voting securities of LM or any of its affiliates or seek to advise or influence any Person with respect to the voting of or the granting of any consent with respect to any voting securities of LM; (b) form, join or in any way participate in a "group" (as defined under the Exchange Act) in connection with the voting securities of LM or otherwise act in concert with any person in respect of any such securities; (c) otherwise act, alone or in concert with others, to seek representation on or to control or influence the management, board of directors or policies of LM or to obtain representation on the board of directors of LM or any committee thereof; (d) enter into any discussions or arrangements with any third party with respect to any of the foregoing; (e) request that LM or any of its Representatives amend or waive any provision of this Agreement, or make any public announcement with respect to the restrictions of this Agreement, or take any action which would reasonably be expected to require LM to make a public announcement regarding any potential transaction; or (f) advise, assist or encourage, or direct any Person to advise, assist or encourage any other Person or Persons, in connection with any of the foregoing.
Exchange Act
          The restrictions set forth herein will not apply as to KKR and its affiliates if any of the following occurs:
                    (i) a third party who is not an affiliate of KKR (a "") acquires beneficial ownership of 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock; or
Third Party
                    (ii) LM enters into an agreement pursuant to which a Third Party would acquire all or substantially all of the stock or assets of LM or LM would be merged or consolidated with another Person, unless immediately following the consummation of such transaction the stockholders of LM immediately prior to the consummation of such transaction would continue to hold (in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of LM's voting stock immediately prior to the transaction) more than 50% of all of the outstanding common stock or other securities entitled to vote for the election of directors of the surviving or resulting entity in such transaction or any direct or indirect parent thereof; that this clause shall not be applicable after such agreement is terminated.
provided
          As used in this Agreement, the term "" shall be broadly interpreted to include, without limitation, the media and any individual, corporation, company, partnership, limited liability company, or other entity or group. As used in this Agreement, the term "" shall mean any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediates, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person; the term
Person
affiliate
"" shall mean, collectively, a party's directors, officers, affiliates, employees or consultants, to the extent they are acting on such party's behalf; the term "" or variations thereof, when used with respect to securities, means such term as used in any of Section 13(d) or Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and the terms "" and "", when used with respect to securities, shall mean bearing all or substantially all economic risk of loss or appreciation (less no more than a fixed or floating interest rate return) in the value of, and any profit (less no more than a fixed or floating interest rate return) derived from a transaction in, such securities.
Representatives
beneficial ownership
Ownership
Own
          Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, except as provided in this paragraph, this Agreement shall not apply to affiliates of KKR that are Non-Investor Affiliates. "" are affiliates of KKR (x) whose business is distinct from private equity and (y) whose investments, investment strategy and related activity (including any investments, investment strategy or related activity with respect to the Common Stock) are not executed, developed, directed or undertaken by KKR or its affiliates or their respective Representatives (other than Non-Investor Affiliates or their Representatives). If non-public, proprietary information with respect to LM is made available to a Non-Investor Affiliate or its Representative (other than to compliance personnel for compliance purposes only) by KKR or its affiliates (other than Non-Investor Affiliates) (such a situation, a ""), then this Agreement shall apply to such Non-Investor Affiliate without regard to the first sentence of this paragraph. At all times during the Standstill Period, for so long as a Wall Cross has not occurred with respect to a Non-Investor Affiliate:
Non-Investor Affiliates
Wall Cross
                    (i) Such Non-Investor Affiliate shall be permitted to acquire shares of Common Stock and securities exchangeable or exercisable for, or convertible into, shares of Common Stock (collectively, "") only (A) in an amount (together with the Common Equity Owned or beneficially owned (determined without aggregation with any affiliate of KKR that is not a Non-Investor Affiliate) by all other Non-Investor Affiliates) up to 4.9% of the then outstanding shares of Common Stock (including, with respect to an acquisition of exchangeable, exercisable or convertible securities, the shares of Common Stock issuable upon exchange, exercise or conversion thereof), and (B) if such Non-Investor Affiliate is able to make the passive investor certification specified in clause (i) of the proviso of Rule 13d-1(b)(1) under the Exchange Act with respect to the acquisition of such Common Equity.
Common Equity
                    (ii) If such Non-Investor Affiliate is unable to make such passive investor certification, then such Non-Investor Affiliate shall not (A) acquire any Common Equity or (B) initiate any proposal for a transaction or action that would be prohibited pursuant to clause (a)(ii), (a)(iii) or (a)(iv) of the second paragraph of this Agreement if such transaction were effected, or such action were taken, by KKR.
          The terms of this Agreement may be modified or waived only by a separate writing signed by LM and KKR that expressly modifies or waives any such term.
          It is understood and agreed that no failure or delay by LM in exercising any right, power or privilege under this Agreement shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any right, power or privilege under this Agreement.
          This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
          Subject to applicable law, each party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and of the United States of America, in each case located in the County of New York in the State of New York, for any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and (ii) agrees not to commence any action, suit or proceeding relating thereto except in such courts. Subject to applicable law, each party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) waives any objection to the laying of venue of any action, suit or proceeding arising out of this Agreement or the Transaction, in the courts of the State of New York and of the United States of America, in each case located in the County of New York in the State of New York, and (ii) waives and agrees not to plead or claim that any such action, suit or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
          KKR acknowledges that LM would be irreparably injured by a breach of this Agreement by KKR, that monetary remedies would be inadequate to protect LM against any actual or threatened breach or continuation of any breach of this Agreement, and, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to LM, KKR agrees to the granting of equitable relief, including injunctive relief and specific performance, in LM's favor without proof of actual damages in the event of KKR's actual or threatened breach of this Agreement.
          In the event of an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by LM and KKR and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provisions of this Agreement. Further, if any term or provision of this Agreement, or any application thereof to any particular set of facts or circumstances, shall, to any extent and for any reason, be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement, or the application of such term or provision to facts or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby and shall be construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision had to such extent never been contained herein and each term and provision of this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
          This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts which, when taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Confirmed and agreed to as of the date first written above:
Confirmed and agreed to as of the date first written above:


