FILE:LM/LM-8K-20120516202624.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On May 16, 2012, Legg Mason, Inc. issued press releases announcing the offering and pricing of $650 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.5% Senior Notes due 2019, pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Copies of the press releases are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this report shall not constitute an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy, any securities, nor shall there be any sales of securities mentioned in this report in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Baltimore, May 16, 2012 - Legg Mason, Inc. (NYSE: LM) announced today that it plans to offer and sell senior notes. The net proceeds from the senior notes offering are expected to be used, together with cash on hand and other borrowings, to repurchase $1.25 billion in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 2.5% contingent convertible senior notes due 2015.
This announcement does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy these securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. The senior notes are being offered pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"). The senior notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements.
About Legg Mason
Legg Mason is a global asset management firm, with $639 billion in assets under management as of April 30, 2012. The Company provides active asset management in many major investment centers throughout the world. Legg Mason is headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland. Its common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "LM."
This release may contain forward-looking statements subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, see "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Legg Mason's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 and its subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

Exhibit 99.2
Baltimore, May 16, 2012 - Legg Mason, Inc. (NYSE: LM) announced today the pricing of its sale of $650 million of 5.5% senior notes due 2019. The offering is expected to settle on May 21, 2012.
The senior notes will bear interest at a rate of 5.5% per year. Interest for the senior notes will be payable semi-annually on May 21 and November 21, commencing on November 21, 2012.
Legg Mason, Inc. plans to use the net proceeds from the senior notes offering, together with cash on hand and other borrowings, to repurchase $1.25 billion in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 2.5% contingent convertible senior notes due 2015.
This announcement does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy these securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. The senior notes are being offered pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"). The senior notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements.
This release may contain forward-looking statements subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, see "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Legg Mason's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 and its subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.


