FILE:LM/LM-8K-20120522172027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
May 22, 2012 (May 16, 2012)
 
 
LEGG MASON, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(410) 539-0000
 
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORM 8-K
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
(a) Note Exchange Agreement
On May 16, 2012, Legg Mason, Inc. (Legg Mason) announced a new capital plan that includes refinancing of its 2.50% convertible senior notes due 2015 (the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes). To effect the refinancing of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes, Legg Mason entered into a note exchange agreement (the Note Exchange Agreement), on May 16, 2012, with KKR I-L Limited, a fund managed by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (KKR), Citibank, N.A., Credit Suisse International and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as lenders to such fund, and KKR for limited purposes. The Note Exchange Agreement provides for the repurchase of all of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes by Legg Mason for (i) cash in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest on such notes since January 15, 2012, (ii) a prepayment fee of $6.25 million and (iii) the issuance of warrants (the warrants) to the holders of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes with terms similar to the conversion feature of the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes. The warrants will be issued pursuant to a warrant agreement between Legg Mason and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as warrant agent. The warrants will provide the holders thereof with the right to purchase approximately 14.2 million shares of Legg Mason common stock at an exercise price of $88 per share, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, and will expire in July 2017.
The Note Exchange Agreement also contemplates that Legg Mason will enter into a registration rights agreement upon the issuance of the warrants with KKR I-L Limited, covering resales of the warrants and any underlying shares of Legg Mason common stock deliverable upon exercise of the warrants. Finally, in accordance with the Note Exchange Agreement, Legg Mason expects to amend and restate the standstill agreement, dated as of January 14, 2008, with KKR, by which KKR will continue to agree to not take certain actions with respect to Legg Mason.
The Note Exchange Agreement contains customary representations and warranties from each of the parties, and the parties respective obligations under the Note Exchange Agreement are subject to customary closing conditions. The warrant agreement, warrants, registration rights agreement and amended and restated standstill agreement will be executed at the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Note Exchange Agreement, which is expected to occur on or about May 23, 2012.
The foregoing description of the Note Exchange Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Note Exchange Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
(b) Offering of 5.50% Senior Notes Due 2019
On May 21, 2012, Legg Mason issued and sold $650,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.50% senior notes due 2019 (the Notes). The net proceeds of the Notes offering will be used to fund a portion of the purchase price for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes. Legg Masson offered and sold the Notes to initial purchasers in reliance on an exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). The initial purchasers then resold the Notes pursuant to exemptions from registration under the Securities Act, including Rule 144A and Regulation S. Legg Mason relied on these exemptions from registration based in part on representations made by the initial purchasers in the purchase agreement relating to the issuance and sale of the Notes.
The Notes were issued pursuant to, and are governed by, an indenture dated as of May 21, 2012 (the Base Indenture) between Legg Mason and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the Trustee), as supplemented by the supplemental indenture, dated as of May 21, 2012 (the Supplemental Indenture). The Base Indenture, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture, is referred to herein as the Indenture. Pursuant to the Indenture, Legg Mason will pay interest on the Notes on May 21 and November 21 of each year, beginning on November 21, 2012. The Notes will mature on May 21, 2019. The Notes are unsecured senior obligations of Legg Mason. The Notes will rank equally with Legg Masons existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated senior indebtedness. The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements.
The Indenture provides that if Legg Mason or a subsidiary reduces its ownership of a class or series of capital stock of a Designated Subsidiary (as defined in the Indenture) to below 80% and, immediately after giving effect to such disposition, its senior unsecured debt rating is, or is on notice to be downgraded to, below investment grade, Legg Mason, in certain circumstances, will be required to redeem or repay debt secured by such capital stock, repay term loans under any credit agreement otherwise maturing within one year, invest in Additional Assets (as defined in the Indenture) or offer to repay the Notes and other debt. The Indenture also provides that the interest rate payable on the Notes will be subject to adjustment from time to time if the debt rating assigned to Legg Masons senior unsecured debt is downgraded to below investment grade or subsequently upgraded. Additionally, if the Notes are unrated or rated below investment grade within a certain period following the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control (as defined in the Indenture), Legg Mason will, in certain circumstances, be required to make an offer to purchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. The Indenture provides for customary events of default, including nonpayment and failure to comply with covenants and other agreements. A copy of the Base Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1, a copy of the Supplemental Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.2 and each is incorporated herein by reference.
pari passu
In connection with the issuance of the Notes, Legg Mason and the Representatives entered into a registration rights agreement, dated as of May 21, 2012 (the Notes Registration Rights Agreement), with respect to the Notes. Pursuant to the Notes Registration Rights Agreement, Legg Mason has agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to (1) file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) relating to an exchange offer for the Notes (the Exchange Offer) no later than 60 days after the issuance of the Notes, (2) cause the SEC to declare the registration statement effective under the Securities Act no later than 105 days after issuance of the Notes and (3) complete the Exchange Offer no later than 150 days after issuance of the Notes. In the Exchange Offer, holders of the Notes will be permitted to exchange the Notes for a new issue of Notes that are registered with the SEC and do not contain terms restricting the transfer of the Notes (or provide for additional interest) but that are otherwise identical to the Notes. Legg Mason also agreed pursuant to the Notes Registration Rights Agreement to use its reasonable best efforts to file a shelf registration statement with respect to resales of the Notes if Legg Mason is unable or not permitted to effect the Exchange Offer. Upon the occurrence or existence of certain pending corporate developments or other material events, Legg Mason may suspend the availability of any registration statement (and related prospectus) upon notice to the holders of the Notes; provided that such suspension period will not exceed 45 days in any three-month period or 90 days in any twelve-month period. The Notes Registration Rights Agreement provides for Legg Mason to pay additional interest (not to exceed 0.50% per annum) on the Notes if Legg Mason fails to fulfill its obligations with respect to the registration of the Notes. A copy of the Notes Registration Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The foregoing descriptions of the Base Indenture, Supplemental Indenture and Notes Registration Rights Agreement do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Base Indenture, Supplemental Indenture and Notes Registration Rights Agreement, which are filed as exhibits hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation
Information required by Item 2.03 is contained in Item 1.01 of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
Execution Version
                    INDENTURE, dated as of May 21, 2012, between LEGG MASON, INC., a Maryland corporation, as Issuer (the "Company"), having its principal office at 100 International Drive, Baltimore, Maryland 21202, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee (the "Trustee").
                    WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured and unsubordinated debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (the "Securities"), which may be convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any person (including the Company), to be issued in one or more series as in this Indenture provided; and
                    WHEREAS, this Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, that are required to be part of this Indenture, and shall be governed by such provisions; that if any provision of this Indenture modifies any TIA (as defined herein) provision that may be so modified, such TIA provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified; that if any provision of this Indenture excludes any TIA provision that may be so excluded, such TIA provision shall be excluded from this Indenture; and
provided
provided
further
                    WHEREAS, all acts and requirements necessary to make this Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
                    NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
                    For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders (as defined herein) thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
                    SECTION 101. . "Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104.
Definitions
                    "Additional Amounts" has the meaning specified in Section 1009.
                    "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control," as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with" shall have correlative meanings.
                    "Authenticating Agent" means any Person appointed by the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee pursuant to Section 611 to authenticate Securities.
                    "Authorized Newspaper" means a newspaper, in the English language or in an official language of the country of publication, customarily published on each Business Day, whether or not published on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, and of general circulation in each place in connection with which the term is used or in the financial community of each such place. Where successive publications are required to be made in Authorized Newspapers, the successive publications may be made in the same or in different newspapers in the same city meeting the foregoing requirements and in each case on any Business Day.
                    "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar U.S. federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
                    "Board of Directors" means (i) with respect to a corporation, the board of directors of the corporation; (ii) with respect to a partnership, the board of directors of a corporate general partner of the partnership; (iii) with respect to a limited liability company, the managing members thereof; and (iv) with respect to any other Person, the board of directors or committee of such Person serving a similar function.
                    "Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company as the case may be, to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors or by a designated committee of the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
                    "Business Day" means, when used with respect to any Place of Payment or any other particular location referred to in this Indenture or in the Securities, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which (i) is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment or other location are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close and (ii) if a payment is to be made in (or a rate is to be ascertained for) Euros, is also a day in which TARGET is open for settlement of payments in Euros.
                    "Clearstream" means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, or its successor.
                    "Commission" or "SEC" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
                    "Common Depositary" has the meaning specified in Section 304.
                    "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
                    "Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by an Officer of the Company and delivered to the Trustee.
                    "Conversion Date" has the meaning specified in Section 312(d).
                    "Conversion Event" means the cessation of use of a Foreign Currency both by the government of one or more countries or by any recognized union, association or confederation of governments that issued such Foreign Currency and by a central bank or other public institution of or within the international banking community for the settlement of transactions in such Foreign Currency.
                    "Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee" means the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee, at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office on the date of execution of this Indenture is located at The Bank of New York Mellon, 101 Barclay Street, FL 8W, New York, NY 10286, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration), except that with respect to presentation of Securities for payment or for registration of transfer or exchange, such term shall mean the office or agency of the Trustee at which, at any particular time, its corporate agency business shall be conducted.
                    "corporation" includes corporations, associations, companies and business or statutory trusts.
                    "Currency" means any currency, composite currency or currency unit and Foreign Currency issued by the government of one or more countries or by any recognized union, confederation or association of such governments.
                    "Default" means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
                    "Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 307.
                    "Depositary" means, with respect to Registered Securities of any series for which the Company shall determine that such Registered Securities will be issued in permanent global form, The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, another clearing agency, or any successor registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act, or other applicable statute or regulations, which in each case, shall be designated by the Company pursuant to Section 301.
                    "Designated Subsidiary" means any U.S. Subsidiary of the Company and each international Subsidiary of the Company that it manages which as a consolidated group accounted for more than 60% of our assets under management as of March 31, 2012, and any Subsidiary that assumes the management of the assets managed by a Designated Subsidiary.
                    "Dollar" or "$" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts therein.
                    "Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit" has the meaning specified in Section 312(g).
                    "Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency" has the meaning specified in Section 312(f).
                    "EDGAR" means the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Retrieval System.
                    "Election Date" has the meaning specified in Section 312(h).
                    "Euroclear" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. as operator of Euroclear System, and any successor thereto.
                    "Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
                    "Exchange Act" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                    "Exchange Date" has the meaning specified in Section 304.
                    "Exchange Rate Agent" means, with respect to Securities of or within any series, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, a New York Clearing House bank, designated pursuant to Section 301 or Section 313.
                    "Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate" means a certificate setting forth (i) the applicable Market Exchange Rate and (ii) the Dollar or Foreign Currency amounts of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any (on an aggregate basis and on the basis of a Security having the lowest denomination principal amount determined in accordance with Section 302 in the relevant Currency), payable with respect to a Security of any series on the basis of such Market Exchange Rate, signed by any Officer of the Company.
                    "Extension Notice" has the meaning specified in Section 308.
                    "Extension Period" has the meaning specified in Section 308.
                    "Foreign Currency" means any Currency other than Currency of the United States.
                    "GAAP" means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other successor entities as have been sanctioned and approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission, approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, that are applicable at the date of any relevant calculation or determination.
                    "Government Obligations" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, securities which are (i) direct obligations of the government which issued the Currency in which the Securities of a particular series are payable or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the government which issued the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed by such government, which, in either case, are full faith and credit obligations of such government payable in such Currency and are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof and shall also
include a depository receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of the Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
                    "guarantee" means a guarantee (other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business), direct or indirect, in any manner (including, without limitation, letters of credit and reimbursement agreements in respect thereof), of all or any part of any Indebtedness or other obligations.
                    "Holder" means the Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
                    "Indebtedness" means any and all obligations of a Person for money borrowed which, in accordance with GAAP, would be reflected on the balance sheet of such Person as a liability on the date as of which Indebtedness is to be determined.
                    "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301; , , that, if at any time more than one Person is acting as Trustee under this instrument, "Indenture" shall mean, with respect to any one or more series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee, this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee established as contemplated by Section 301, exclusive, however, of any provisions or terms which relate solely to other series of Securities for which such Person is not Trustee, regardless of when such terms or provisions were adopted, and exclusive of any provisions or terms adopted by means of one or more indentures supplemental hereto executed and delivered after such Person had become such Trustee but to which such Person, as such Trustee, was not a party.
provided
however
                    "Indexed Security" means a Security the terms of which provide that the principal amount thereof payable at the Stated Maturity may be more or less than the principal amount thereof at original issuance.
                    "interest" means, when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security the rate prescribed in such Original Issue Discount Security.
                    "Interest Payment Date" means, when used with respect to any Security, the Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
                    "Lien" or "lien" means, with respect to any property of any person, any mortgage or deed of trust, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, security interest, lien, charge, encumbrance, preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential
arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever on or with respect to such property (including any capital lease obligation, conditional sale or other title retention agreement having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing or any sale and leaseback transaction).
                    "Market Exchange Rate" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, (i) for any conversion involving a currency unit on the one hand and Dollars or any Foreign Currency on the other, the exchange rate between the relevant currency unit and Dollars or such Foreign Currency calculated by the method specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of the relevant series, (ii) for any conversion of Dollars into any Foreign Currency, the noon (New York City time) buying rate for such Foreign Currency for cable transfers quoted in New York City as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and (iii) for any conversion of one Foreign Currency into Dollars or another Foreign Currency, the spot rate at noon local time in the relevant market at which, in accordance with normal banking procedures, the Dollars or Foreign Currency into which conversion is being made could be purchased with the Foreign Currency from which conversion is being made from major banks located in either New York City, London or any other principal market for Dollars or such purchased Foreign Currency, in each case determined by the Exchange Rate Agent. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, in the event of the unavailability of any of the exchange rates provided for in the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), the Exchange Rate Agent shall use, in its sole discretion and without liability on its part, such quotation of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as of the most recent available date, or quotations from one or more major banks in New York City, London or another principal market for the Currency in question, or such other quotations as the Exchange Rate Agent shall deem appropriate. Unless otherwise specified by the Exchange Rate Agent, if there is more than one market for dealing in any Currency by reason of foreign exchange regulations or otherwise, the market to be used in respect of such Currency shall be that upon which a non-resident issuer of securities designated in such Currency would purchase such Currency in order to make payments in respect of such securities.
                    "Maturity" means, when used with respect to any Security, the date on which the principal of such Security or any installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by acceleration, notice of redemption, notice of option to elect repayment, notice of exchange or conversion, or otherwise.
                    "Officer" means the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer or the Secretary.
                    "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by one Officer of the Company, that meets the requirements of Section 102.
                    "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion acceptable to the Trustee of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company, including an employee of the Company.
                    "Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon an acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502.
                    "Outstanding" means, when used with respect to Securities, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder or are present at a meeting of Holders for quorum purposes, and for the purpose of making the calculations required by TIA Section 313, (i) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the amount of principal thereof that would be (or shall have been determined to be) due and payable, at the time of such determination, upon an acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, (ii) the principal amount of any Security denominated in a Foreign Currency that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the Dollar equivalent, determined as of the date such Security is originally issued by the Company as set forth in an Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the Dollar equivalent as of such date of original issuance of the amount determined as provided in clause (i) above) of such Security, (iii) the principal amount of any Indexed Security that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the principal amount of such Indexed Security at original issuance, unless otherwise provided with respect to such Security pursuant to Section 301, and (iv) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be
provided
however
Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in making such determination or calculation or in conclusively relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver or upon any such determination as to the presence of a quorum, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor.
                    "Paying Agent" means any Person (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) authorized by the Company to pay the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Securities on behalf of the Company.
                    "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
                    "Place of Payment" means, when used with respect to the Securities of or within any series, the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Securities are payable as specified as contemplated by Sections 301 and 1002.
                    "Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, in whole or in part, means the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to this Indenture.
                    "Redemption Price" means, when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
                    "Registered Security" means any Security registered in the Security Register.
                    "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Registered Securities of or within any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301.
                    "Repayment Date" means, when used with respect to any Security to be repaid at the option of the Holder, the date fixed for such repayment pursuant to this Indenture.
                    "Repayment Price" means, when used with respect to any Security to be repaid at the option of the Holder, the price at which it is to be repaid pursuant to this Indenture.
                    "Responsible Officer" means, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer of the Trustee within the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee (or any successor group of the Trustee) who has direct responsibility for administration of this Indenture and, for purposes of Section 601 (or subparagraph (3)(b) of the first paragraph of Section 602 to the extent such expanded definition is used), also includes any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
                    "Security" or "Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Security or Securities authenticated and delivered
under this Indenture; , , that if at any time there is more than one Person acting as Trustee under this Indenture, "Securities" with respect to the Indenture as to which such Person is Trustee shall have the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and shall more particularly mean Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, exclusive, however, of Securities of any series as to which such Person is not Trustee.
provided
however
                    "Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 305.
                    "Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Registered Securities of or within any series means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307.
                    "Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security is due and payable, as such date may be extended pursuant to the provisions of Section 308.
                    "Subsidiary" means (1) any corporation of which at least a majority of the outstanding stock having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power for the election of directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, and (2) any other Person in which the Company or one or more other Subsidiaries, directly or indirectly, at the date of determination, (x) own at least a majority of the outstanding ownership interests or (y) have the power to elect or direct the election of, or to appoint or approve the appointment of, at least the majority of the directors, trustees or managing members of, or other persons holding similar positions with, such Person.
                    "TARGET" means the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer System.
                    "Trust Indenture Act" or "TIA" means the U.S. Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this Indenture was executed, except as provided in Section 905.
                    "Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder; , , that if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean only the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
provided
however
                    "United States" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia), its territories, its possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
                    "United States person" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United
States, an estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source or any trust if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
                    "Valuation Date" has the meaning specified in Section 312(c).
                    "Vice President", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president."
                    "Voting Stock" as applied to stock of any Person, means shares, interests, participations or other equivalents in the equity interest (however designated) in such Person having ordinary voting power for the election of a majority of the directors (or the equivalent) of such Person, other than shares, interests, participations or other equivalents having such power only by reason of the occurrence of a contingency which has not yet occurred.
                    "Yield to Maturity" means the yield to maturity, computed at the time of issuance of a Security (or, if applicable, at the most recent redetermination of interest on such Security) and as set forth in such Security in accordance with generally accepted United States bond yield computation principles.
                    SECTION 102. . Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture (including any covenant or condition compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent) relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents stating that all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
Compliance Certificates and Opinions
                    Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture (other than pursuant to Section 1004) shall include:
                    SECTION 103. . In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee
                    Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company unless such officer or counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
                    Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
                    SECTION 104. . Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of the Outstanding Securities of all series or one or more series, as the case may be, may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agents duly appointed in writing. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company or to all of them. Such instrument or instruments are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture (subject to Section 315 of the TIA) and conclusive in favor of the Trustee, the Company and any agent of the Trustee or the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
Acts of Holders
                    Without limiting the generality of this Section 104, unless otherwise provided in or pursuant to this Indenture, a Holder, including a Depositary that is a Holder of a global Security (including through its nominee), may make, give or take, by a proxy or proxies, duly appointed in writing, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act provided in or pursuant to this Indenture or Securities to be made, given or taken by the Holders, and a Depositary that is a Holder of a global Security may provide its proxy or proxies to the beneficial owners of interests in such global Security through such Depositary's standing instructions and customary practices.
                    SECTION 105. . Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other documents provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
Notices, etc. to Trustee or the Company
                    SECTION 106. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein or otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, where this Indenture provides for notice of any event to Holders of Registered Securities by the Company or the Trustee, such notice shall be sufficiently given if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each such Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders of Registered Securities is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Registered Securities. Any notice mailed to a Holder in the manner herein prescribed shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by such Holder, whether or not such Holder actually receives such notice.
Notice to Holders; Waiver
                    In case, by reason of the suspension of or irregularities in regular mail service or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impractical to mail notice of any event to Holders of Registered Securities when such notice is required to be given pursuant to any provision of this Indenture, then any manner of giving written notice as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee shall be deemed to be sufficient giving of such notice for every purpose hereunder.
                    Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication.
                    Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
                    SECTION 107. . The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
                    SECTION 108. . All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns
                    SECTION 109. . In case any provision in this Indenture or in any Security shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
                    SECTION 110. . Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Securities Registrar and their successors hereunder and the Holders of Securities, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Benefits of Indenture
                    SECTION 111. . THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES OF SUCH STATE OTHER THAN NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW SECTION 5-1401. THIS INDENTURE IS SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE TRUST INDENTURE ACT THAT ARE REQUIRED TO BE PART OF THIS INDENTURE AND SHALL, TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE, BE GOVERNED BY SUCH PROVISIONS.
Governing Law
                    SECTION 112. . Unless otherwise specified in or pursuant to this Indenture or any Securities, in any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date, sinking fund payment date or Stated Maturity or Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then payment of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date, sinking fund payment date, Stated Maturity or Maturity, as the case may be, provided that no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date, sinking fund payment date, Stated Maturity or Maturity, as the case may be, to such next succeeding Business Day.
Legal Holidays
                    SECTION 113. . No recourse for the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest on any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in this Indenture or in any supplemental indenture, or in any Security, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any director, officer, employee, or stockholder as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any of its Affiliates or any successor Person of the Company, either directly or through the Company or any of its Affiliates or any successor Person of the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that all such liability is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issue of the Securities.
No Recourse
                    SECTION 114. . Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
                    The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
                    SECTION 116. . In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes and acts of God; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Force Majeure
                    SECTION 117. . The parties hereto acknowledge that in accordance with Section 326 of the U.S.A. Patriot Act The Bank of New York Mellon, like all financial institutions and in order to help fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering, is required to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or legal entity that establishes a relationship or opens an account. The parties to this Indenture agree that they will provide The Bank of New York Mellon with such information as it may request in order for The Bank of New York Mellon to satisfy the requirements of the U.S.A. Patriot Act.
U.S.A. Patriot Act
                    SECTION 118. .
Waiver of Jury Trial
                    EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
                    SECTION 201. . The Registered Securities, if any, of each series, the temporary global Securities of each series, if any, and the permanent global Securities of each series, if any, shall be in substantially the forms as shall be established by, or pursuant to a Board Resolution or, subject to Section 303, set forth in, or determined in the manner provided in, an Officers' Certificate pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company, or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers of the Company executing such Securities as evidenced by their execution of such Securities. If the forms of Securities of any series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 303 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities. Any portion of the text of any Security may be set forth on the reverse thereof, with an appropriate reference thereto on the face of the Security.
Forms Generally
                    The Trustee's certificate of authentication on all Securities shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article.
                    The definitive Securities, if any, shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel-engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers of the Company executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
                    SECTION 202. . Subject to Section 611, the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication
                    Dated: ____________________
                    This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
                    SECTION 203. . If Securities of or within a series are issuable in global form, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, then, notwithstanding clause (8) of Section 301, any such Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities of such series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities of such series from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities of such series represented thereby may from time to time be increased or decreased to reflect exchanges. Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified therein or in the Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304. Subject to the provisions of Section 303 and, if applicable, Section 304, the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified therein or in the applicable Company Order. If a Company Order pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304 has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Company with respect to endorsement or delivery or redelivery of a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel.
Securities Issuable in Global Form
                    The provisions of the last sentence of Section 303 shall apply to any Security represented by a Security in global form if such Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Trustee the Security in global form together with written instructions (which need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the written statement contemplated by the last sentence of Section 303.
                    Notwithstanding any provisions of Section 307 to the contrary, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on any Security in global form shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein.
                    Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 309 and except as provided in the preceding paragraph, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall treat as the Holder of such principal amount of Outstanding Securities represented by a permanent global Security, the Holder thereof.
                    SECTION 301. . The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series
                    The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in one or more Board Resolutions of the Company or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions of the Company and, subject to Section 303, set forth in, or determined in the manner provided in, an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series, any or all of the following, as applicable (each of which (except for the matters set forth in clauses (1), (2) and (17) below), if so provided, may be determined from time to time by the Company with respect to unissued Securities of the series and set forth in such Securities of the series when issued from time to time):
                    All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except, in the case of Registered Securities, as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to such Board Resolution or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions (subject to Section 303) and set forth in such Officers' Certificate or in any such indenture supplemental hereto. Not all Securities of any one series need be issued at the same time, and, unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened, without the consent of the Holders, for issuances of additional Securities of such series, provided that if such additional securities are issued with the same CUSIP number as previously issued securities, such additional securities must be fungible with such previously issued securities for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
                    If any of the terms of the Securities of any series are established by action taken pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions, such Board Resolutions shall be delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the issuance of the first Security of such series.
                    SECTION 302. . The Securities of each series shall be issuable in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 301. With respect to Securities of any series denominated in Dollars, in the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of such series, the Registered Securities of such series, other than Registered Securities issued in global form (which may be of any denomination), shall be issuable in a minimum denomination of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above such minimum denomination.
Denominations
                    SECTION 303. . The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by an individual or individuals duly authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company to execute the Securities. The signature of any of these authorized persons on the Securities may be the manual or facsimile signatures of the present or any future such authorized person and may be imprinted or otherwise reproduced on the Securities.
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating
                    Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at the time of such execution of the Securities the proper officers of the Company shall bind the
Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
                    At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series, duly executed by the Company, to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order, Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with such Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. If not all the Securities of any series are to be issued at one time and if the Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate pursuant to a Board Resolution, or supplemental indenture establishing such series shall so permit, such Company Order may set forth procedures acceptable to the Trustee for the issuance of such Securities and determining terms of particular Securities of such series such as interest rate or formula, maturity, any redemption or repayment provisions, date of issuance and date from which interest shall accrue.
                    In authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall receive, and shall be fully protected in conclusively relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating in effect (subject to customary exceptions):
                    The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate and deliver any such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture is unlawful or will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
                    Each Registered Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
                    No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized signatory, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
                    Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 310 together with a written statement (which need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
                    SECTION 304. . Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, in registered form, and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities. Such temporary Securities may be in global form.
Temporary Securities
                    Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form (which shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraphs), if temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Company shall execute and the Trustee, upon receipt of a written instruction, shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
                    If temporary Securities of any series are issued in global form, any such temporary global Security shall, unless otherwise provided therein, be delivered to the London office of a depositary or common depositary (the "Common Depositary"), for the benefit of Euroclear and Clearstream, for credit to the respective accounts of the beneficial owners of such Securities (or to such other accounts as they may direct).
                    Without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the date specified in, or determined pursuant to the terms of, any such temporary global Security (the "Exchange Date"), the Company shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities of the same series executed by the Company, in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such temporary global Security. On or after the Exchange Date such temporary global Security shall be surrendered by the Common Depositary to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or from time to time in part, for definitive Securities of the same series without charge and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such temporary global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such temporary global Security to be exchanged. The definitive Securities to be delivered in exchange for any such temporary global Security shall be in registered form or permanent global registered form, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, provided that, unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, upon such presentation by the Common Depositary, such temporary global Security is accompanied by a certificate dated the Exchange Date or a subsequent date and signed by Euroclear as to the portion of such temporary global Security held for its account then to be exchanged and a certificate dated the Exchange Date or a subsequent date and signed by Clearstream as to the portion of such temporary global Security held for its account then to be exchanged, each in the form set forth in Exhibit A-2 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301).
                    Unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, the interest of a beneficial owner of a temporary global Security shall be exchanged for definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor following the Exchange Date when the account holder instructs Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, to request such exchange on his behalf and delivers to Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, a certificate in the form set forth in Exhibit A-1 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301), dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the Exchange Date, copies of which certificate shall be available from the offices of Euroclear and Clearstream, the Trustee, any Authenticating Agent appointed for such series of Securities and each Paying Agent. Unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, any such exchange shall be made free of charge to the beneficial owners of such temporary global Security, except that a Person receiving definitive Securities must bear the cost of insurance, postage, transportation and the like in the event that such Person does not take delivery of such definitive Securities in person at the offices of Euroclear or Clearstream.
                    Until exchanged in full as hereinabove provided, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor authenticated and delivered hereunder, except that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, interest payable on a temporary global Security on an Interest Payment Date for Securities of such series occurring prior to the
applicable Exchange Date shall be payable to Euroclear and Clearstream on such Interest Payment Date upon delivery by Euroclear and Clearstream to the Trustee or the applicable Paying Agent of a certificate or certificates in the form set forth in Exhibit A-2 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301), for credit without further interest thereon on or after such Interest Payment Date to the respective accounts of the Persons who are the beneficial owners of such temporary global Security on such Interest Payment Date and who have each delivered to Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, a certificate dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the Interest Payment Date occurring prior to such Exchange Date in the form set forth in Exhibit A-1 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, the certifications made pursuant to this paragraph shall satisfy the certification requirements of the preceding two paragraphs of this Section and of the third paragraph of Section 303 of this Indenture and the interests of the Persons who are the beneficial owners of the temporary global Security with respect to which such certification was made will be exchanged for definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor on the Exchange Date or the date of certification if such date occurs after the Exchange Date, without further act or deed by such beneficial owners. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no payments of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, owing with respect to a beneficial interest in a temporary global Security will be made unless and until such interest in such temporary global Security shall have been exchanged for an interest in a definitive Security. Any interest so received by Euroclear and Clearstream and not paid as herein provided shall be returned to the Trustee or the applicable Paying Agent immediately prior to the expiration of two years after such Interest Payment Date in order to be repaid to the Company in accordance with (but otherwise subject to) Section 1003.
                    SECTION 305. . The Company or the Trustee shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register for each series of Securities (the registers maintained in the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Registered Securities and of transfers of Registered Securities; , , that there shall be only one Security Register per series of Securities. The Security Register shall be in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time. At all reasonable times, the Security Register shall be open to inspection by the Trustee. The Trustee is hereby initially appointed as security registrar (the "Security Registrar") for the purpose of registering Registered Securities and transfers of Registered Securities as herein provided and for facilitating exchanges of temporary global Securities for permanent global Securities or definitive Securities, or both, or of permanent global Securities for definitive Securities, as herein provided.
Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange
provided
however
                    Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Registered Security of any series at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee, one or more new Registered Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor.
                    At the option of the Holder, Registered Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Registered Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination and of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Registered Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Registered Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Registered Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
                    Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities that the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
                    Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, any permanent global Security shall be exchangeable only as provided in this paragraph. If any beneficial owner of an interest in a permanent global Security is entitled to exchange such interest for Securities of such series and of like tenor and principal amount of another authorized form and denomination, as specified as contemplated by Section 301 and provided that any applicable notice provided in the permanent global Security shall have been given, then without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the earliest date on which such interest may be so exchanged, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities of that series in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such beneficial owner's interest in such permanent global Security, executed by the Company. On or after the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, such permanent global Security shall be surrendered by the Common Depositary or such other depositary as shall be specified in the Company Order with respect thereto to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or from time to time in part, for definitive Securities of the same series without charge, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such permanent global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such permanent global Security to be exchanged which shall be in the form of Registered Securities; , , that no such exchanges may occur during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before any selection of Securities to be redeemed and ending on the relevant Redemption Date if the Security for which exchange is requested may be among those selected for redemption. If a definitive Registered Security is issued in exchange for any portion of a permanent global Security after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of such definitive Registered Security, but will be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, only to the Person to whom interest in respect of such portion of such permanent global Security is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
provided
however
                    All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same
benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
                    Every Registered Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
                    No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906, 1107 or 1305 not involving any transfer.
                    If at any time the Depositary for any permanent global Registered Securities of any series notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such permanent global Registered Securities or if at any time the Depositary for such permanent global Registered Securities shall no longer be eligible to so continue under applicable law, the Company shall appoint a successor Depositary eligible under applicable law with respect to such permanent global Registered Securities. If a successor Depositary eligible under applicable law for such global Registered Securities is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility or if there has occurred and is continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series, the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of the Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor, will authenticate and deliver such definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor, in any authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Registered Securities, in exchange for such permanent global Registered Securities.
                    The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that any permanent global Registered Securities of any series shall no longer be maintained in global form. In such event the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of the Company's order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor, will authenticate and deliver, definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor in any authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Registered Securities, in exchange for such permanent global Registered Securities.
                    The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the selection for redemption of Securities of that series under Section 1103 or 1203 and ending at the close of business on the day of the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Registered Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part, or (iii) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security which has been
surrendered for repayment at the option of the Holder, except the portion, if any, of such Security not to be so repaid.
                    The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer that may be imposed under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of any series pursuant to the terms thereof established as contemplated by Section 301 or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any such Security (including any transfers between or among any depositary (including any Depositary or Common Depositary), or its nominee, as a Holder of a Security issued in global form, any participants in such depositary or owners or holders of beneficial interests in any such global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by, the terms of such Securities if and as may be so established in respect of such Securities, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements thereof.
                    SECTION 306. . If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously Outstanding.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
                    If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously Outstanding.
                    Notwithstanding the provisions of the previous two paragraphs, in case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
                    Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
                    Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security, shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
                    The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
                    SECTION 307. . (a) Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, interest, if any, on any Registered Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose pursuant to Section 1002; , , that each installment of interest, if any, on any Registered Security (other than a global Security) on an Interest Payment Date may at the Company's option be paid by (i) mailing a check for such interest, payable to or upon the written order of the Person entitled thereto pursuant to Section 309, to the address of such Person as it appears on the Security Register or (ii) transfer to an account located in the United States maintained by the payee.
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved; Optional Interest Reset
provided
however
                    Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301, every permanent global Security will provide that interest, if any, payable on any Interest Payment Date will be paid to each of Euroclear and Clearstream with respect to that portion of such permanent global Security held for its account by the Common Depositary, for the purpose of permitting each of Euroclear and Clearstream to credit the interest, if any, received by it in respect of such permanent global Security to the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof.
                    Any interest on any Registered Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such defaulted interest and, if applicable, interest on such defaulted interest (to the extent lawful) at the rate or formula specified in the Securities of such series (such defaulted interest and, if applicable, interest thereon herein collectively called "Defaulted Interest") may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below:
                    Notwithstanding the foregoing, not later than 20 days prior to the Optional Reset Date, the Company may, at its option, revoke the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) provided for in the Reset Notice and establish an interest rate (or a spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) that is higher than the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) provided for in the Reset Notice, for the Subsequent Interest Period by causing the Trustee to transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, notice of such higher interest rate (or such higher spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) to the Holder of such Security. Such notice shall be irrevocable. All Securities with respect to which the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) is reset on an Optional Reset Date, and with respect to which the Holders of such Securities have not tendered such Securities for repayment (or have
validly revoked any such tender) pursuant to the next succeeding paragraph, will bear such higher interest rate (or such higher spread or spread multiplier, if applicable).
                    The Holder of any such Security will have the option to elect repayment by the Company of the principal of such Security on each Optional Reset Date at a price equal to the principal amount thereof plus interest accrued to such Optional Reset Date. In order to obtain repayment on an Optional Reset Date, the Holder must follow the procedures set forth in Article Thirteen for repayment at the option of Holders except that the period for delivery or notification to the Trustee shall be at least 25 but not more than 35 days prior to such Optional Reset Date and except that, if the Holder has tendered any Security for repayment pursuant to the Reset Notice, the Holder may, by written notice to the Trustee, revoke such tender or repayment until the close of business on the tenth day before such Optional Reset Date.
                    Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section and Section 305, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
                    SECTION 308. . The provisions of this Section 308 may be made applicable to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301 (with such modifications, additions or substitutions as may be specified pursuant to such Section 301). The Maturity of any Security of such series may be extended at the option of the Company for the period or periods specified on the face of such Security (each an "Extension Period") up to but not beyond the Stated Maturity set forth on the face of such Security. The Company may exercise such option with respect to any Security by notifying the Trustee of such exercise at least 50 but not more than 60 days prior to the Maturity of such Security in effect prior to the exercise of such option. If the Company exercises such option, the Trustee shall transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, to the Holder of such Security not later than 40 days prior to the Maturity a notice (the "Extension Notice") indicating (i) the election of the Company to extend the Maturity, (ii) the new Maturity, (iii) the interest rate, if any, applicable to the Extension Period and (iv) the provisions, if any, for redemption during such Extension Period. Upon the Trustee's transmittal of the Extension Notice, the Maturity of such Security shall be extended automatically and, except as modified by the Extension Notice and as described in the next paragraph, such Security will have the same terms as prior to the transmittal of such Extension Notice.
Optional Extension of Maturity
                    Notwithstanding the foregoing, not later than 20 days before the Maturity of such Security, the Company may, at its option, revoke the interest rate provided for in the Extension Notice and establish a higher interest rate for the Extension Period by causing the Trustee to transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, notice of such higher interest rate (or such higher spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) to the Holder of such Security. Such notice shall be irrevocable. All Securities with respect to which the Maturity is extended will bear such higher interest rate.
                    If the Company extends the Maturity of any Security, the Holder will have the option to elect repayment of such Security by the Company at Maturity at a price equal to the principal amount thereof, plus interest accrued to such date. In order to obtain repayment at
Maturity once the Company has extended the Maturity thereof, the Holder must follow the procedures set forth in Article Thirteen for repayment at the option of Holders, except that the period for delivery or notification to the Trustee shall be at least 25 but not more than 35 days prior to the Maturity and except that, if the Holder has tendered any Security for repayment pursuant to an Extension Notice, the Holder may by written notice to the Trustee revoke such tender for repayment until the close of business on the tenth day before the Maturity.
                    SECTION 309. . Prior to due presentment of a Registered Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Registered Security is registered as the absolute owner of such Registered Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Sections 305 and 307) interest, if any, on such Registered Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Registered Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Persons Deemed Owners
                    None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Security in global form or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests. The Company, the Trustee and the Securities Registrar shall be entitled to deal with any depositary (including any Depositary or Common Depositary), and any nominee thereof, that is the Holder of any such global Security for all purposes of this Indenture relating to such global Security (including the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, the giving of instructions or directions by or to the owner or holder of a beneficial ownership interest in such global Security) as the sole Holder of such global Security and shall have no obligations to the beneficial owners thereof. None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any acts or omissions of any such depositary with respect to such global Security, for the records of any such depositary, including records in respect of beneficial ownership interests in respect of any such global Security, for any transactions between such depositary and any participant in such depositary or between or among any such depositary, any such participant and/or any holder or owner of a beneficial interest in such global Security or for any transfers of beneficial interests in any such global Security.
                    Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any global Security, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee, or any agent of the Company or the Trustee, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by any depositary (including any Depositary or Common Depositary), as a Holder, with respect to such global Security or impair, as between such depositary and owners of beneficial interests in such global Security, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of such depositary (or its nominee) as Holder of such global Security.
                    SECTION 310. . All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, repayment at the option of the Holder, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any current or future sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee. All Securities so delivered to the Trustee
Cancellation
shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. If the Company shall so acquire any of the Securities, however, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Securities unless and until the same are surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with its customary procedures and, if requested by the Company in writing, the Trustee shall provide certification of their disposal to the Company, unless by Company Order the Company shall timely direct that cancelled Securities be returned to it.
                    SECTION 311. . Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to Securities of any series, interest, if any, on the Securities of each series shall be computed by the Company on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Computation of Interest
                    SECTION 312. . (a) Unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, with respect to Registered Securities of any series not permitting the election provided for in paragraph (b) below or the Holders of which have not made the election provided for in paragraph (b) below, payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on any Registered Security of such series will be made in the Currency in which such Registered Security is payable. The provisions of this Section 312 may be modified or superseded with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301.
Currency and Manner of Payments in Respect of Securities
                    A "Component Currency" shall mean any Currency which, on the Conversion Date, was a component currency of the relevant currency unit.
                    A "Specified Amount" of a Component Currency shall mean the number of units of such Component Currency or fractions thereof which were represented in the relevant currency unit on the Conversion Date. If after the Conversion Date the official unit of any Component Currency is altered by way of combination or subdivision, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall be divided or multiplied in the same proportion. If after the Conversion Date two or more Component Currencies are consolidated into a single currency, the respective Specified Amounts of such Component Currencies shall be replaced by an amount in such single Currency equal to the sum of the respective Specified Amounts of such consolidated Component Currencies expressed in such single Currency, and such amount shall thereafter be a Specified Amount and such single Currency shall thereafter be a Component Currency. If after the Conversion Date any Component Currency shall be divided into two or more currencies, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall be replaced by amounts of such two or more currencies, having an aggregate Dollar Equivalent value at the Market Exchange Rate on the date of such replacement equal to the Dollar Equivalent value of the Specified Amount of such former Component Currency at the Market Exchange Rate immediately before such division and such amounts shall thereafter be Specified Amounts and such currencies shall thereafter be Component Currencies. If, after the Conversion Date of the relevant currency unit, a Conversion Event (other than any event referred to above in this definition of "Specified Amount") occurs with respect to any Component Currency of such currency unit and is continuing on the applicable Valuation Date, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall, for purposes of calculating the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, be converted into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate in effect on the Conversion Date of such Component Currency.
                    "Election Date" shall mean the date for any series of Registered Securities as specified pursuant to clause (13) of Section 301 by which the written election referred to in paragraph (b) above may be made.
                    All decisions and determinations of the Exchange Rate Agent regarding the Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency, the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, the Market Exchange Rate and changes in the Specified Amounts as specified above shall be in its sole discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive for all purposes and irrevocably binding upon the Company, the Trustee and all Holders of such Securities denominated or payable in the relevant Currency. The Exchange Rate Agent shall promptly give written notice to the Company and the Trustee of any such decision or determination.
                    In the event that the Company determines in good faith that a Conversion Event has occurred with respect to a Foreign Currency, the Company will immediately give written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Exchange Rate Agent (and the Trustee will promptly thereafter give notice in the manner provided for in Section 106 to the affected Holders) specifying the Conversion Date. In the event the Company so determines that a Conversion Event has occurred with respect to any Foreign Currency unit in which Securities are denominated or payable, the Company will immediately give written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Exchange Rate Agent (and the Trustee will promptly thereafter give notice in the manner provided for in Section 106 to the affected Holders) specifying the Conversion Date and the Specified Amount of each Component Currency on the Conversion Date. In the event the Company determines in good faith that any subsequent change in any Component Currency as set forth in the definition of Specified Amount above has occurred, the Company will similarly give written notice to the Trustee and the Exchange Rate Agent. The Trustee shall be fully justified and protected in conclusively relying and acting upon information received by it from the Company and the Exchange Rate Agent and shall not otherwise have any duty or obligation to determine or confirm the accuracy or validity of such information independent of the Company or the Exchange Rate Agent.
                    SECTION 313. .
Appointment and Resignation of Successor Exchange Rate Agent
                    SECTION 401. . This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect with respect to any series of Securities specified in such Company Request (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities of such series expressly provided for herein or pursuant hereto, and any right to receive Additional Amounts, as contemplated by Section 1009) and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments provided to it acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series when
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
                    (1) either
                    Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 606 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003, the last sentence of Section 1010, and the penultimate paragraph of Section 1405 shall survive such satisfaction and discharge.
                    SECTION 402. . Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust uninvested and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Money so held in trust is subject to the Trustee's rights under Section 606.
Application of Trust Money
                    SECTION 501. . "Event of Default," wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
Events of Default
                    SECTION 502. . If an Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501 with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Outstanding Securities of that series and any
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
accrued and unpaid cash interest through the date of such declaration, to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount shall become immediately due and payable.
                    At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series (or of all series, as the case may be) has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
If an Event of Default described in clause (5) or (6) occurs and is continuing, then the principal amounts (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all the Securities then Outstanding, together with any accrued interest through the occurrence of such Event of Default, shall become and be due and payable immediately, without any declaration or other act by the Trustee or any other Holder.
                    SECTION 503. . The Company covenants that (1) in case default shall be made in the payment of any installment of interest on any Security of any series as and when the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of 30 days, or (2) in case default shall be made in the payment of the principal (or premium, if any) on any Security of any series at its Maturity then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the Holders of Securities of such series, the whole amount that then shall have become due and payable on such Securities of that series for principal and any premium or interest, or both, as the case may be, with interest upon the overdue principal and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by or provided for in such Securities during the period of such default, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its negligence or bad faith.
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
                    If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series (or of all series, as the case may be) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series (or of all series, as the case may be) by such appropriate judicial proceedings necessary to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
                    SECTION 504. . In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of a series or the property of the Company or such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee, irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities of any series shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of any overdue principal, premium, if any, or interest, shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly
to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the agreed upon compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 606.
                    Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
                    SECTION 505. . All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the agreed upon compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities
                    SECTION 506. . Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or any premium and interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
Application of Money Collected
                    SECTION 507. . No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
Limitation on Suits
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders of Securities of the same series, in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501, or of Holders of all Securities in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (5) or (6) of Section 501, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable and common benefit of all of such Holders of Securities of that same series in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501, or of Holders of all Securities in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (5) or (6) of Section 501 (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holders).
                    SECTION 508. . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment as provided herein and in such Security of the principal and any premium and interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption or repayment at the option of the Holder, on the Redemption Date or Repayment Date, as the case may be) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest
                    SECTION 509. . If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
                    SECTION 510. . Except as otherwise provided with respect to replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
                    SECTION 511. . No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities.
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
                    SECTION 512. . With respect to the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee relating to or arising under clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501, and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, not relating to or arising under clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501; provided, in each case:
Control by Holders
                    SECTION 513. . Subject to Section 502, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default with respect to such series described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501 (or, in the case of a default described in clause (5) or (6) of Section 501, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities may waive any such past default with respect to all series) and its consequences, except, in each case, a default:
Waiver of Past Defaults
                    Upon any such waiver, any such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture, and the Company, the Trustee and Holders shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, respectively; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
                    SECTION 514. . All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of (or premium if any, on) or interest on any Securities on or after the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption or repayment, on or after the Redemption Date or Repayment Date, as the case may be).
Undertaking for Costs
                    SECTION 515. The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
                    SECTION 601. . Within 90 days after the occurrence of any Default hereunder with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall transmit, in the manner and to the extent provided in TIA Section 313(c), notice of such default hereunder known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, unless such Default shall have been cured or waived; , , that, except in the case of a Default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security of such series or in the payment of any
Notice of Defaults
provided
however
sinking fund installment with respect to Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determine that the withholding of such notice is in the best interest of the Holders of Securities of such series.
                    SECTION 602. . Subject to the provisions of TIA Sections 315(a) through 315(d):
Certain Duties, Responsibilities and Rights of Trustee
                    (1) except during the continuance of an Event of Default,
                    The Trustee shall not be required to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
                    Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 602.
                    SECTION 603. . The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except for the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture, authenticate the Securities and perform its obligations hereunder and that the statements made by it in a Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 supplied to the Company are true and accurate, subject to the qualifications set forth therein. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities
                    SECTION 604. . The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company or of the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject
May Hold Securities
to TIA Sections 310(b) and 311, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
                    SECTION 605. . Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company for the investment thereof.
Money Held in Trust
                    SECTION 606. . The Company agrees:
Compensation and Reimbursement
                    The obligations of the Company under this Section to compensate the Trustee, to pay or reimburse the Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances and to indemnify and hold harmless the Trustee shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder and shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the termination of this Indenture for any reason. As security for the performance of such obligations of the Company, the Trustee shall have a claim and lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on particular Securities.
                    When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or (6), the expenses (including reasonable charges and expense of its counsel) of and the compensation for such services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable U.S. federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
                    The provisions of this Section shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the termination of this Indenture for any reason and the earlier resignation or removal of the Trustee.
                    SECTION 607. ; Disqualification. There shall be at all times a Trustee hereunder which shall be eligible to act as Trustee under TIA Section 310(a)(1) and shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of U.S. federal, state, territorial or District of Columbia supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article. If the Trustee shall have or acquire any conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, it shall either eliminate such conflicting interest or resign to the extent, in the manner and with the effect, and subject to the conditions, provided in the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. For purposes of Section 310(b)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act and to the extent permitted thereby, the Trustee, in its capacity as trustee in respect of the Securities of any series, shall not be deemed to have a conflicting interest arising from its capacity as trustee in respect of the Securities of any other series. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Trustee from filing the application provided for in the second to last sentence of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility; Conflicting Interests
                    SECTION 608. No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 609 and any and all amounts then due and owing to the Trustee hereunder have been paid in full.
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
then, in any such case, (i) the Company, by a Board Resolution, may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to TIA Section 315(e), any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
                    SECTION 609. . In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the written request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder, subject nevertheless to its claim and lien provided for in Section 606.
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor
                    SECTION 610. . Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities. In case any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated by such predecessor Trustee, any successor Trustee may authenticate and deliver such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor Trustee. In all such cases such certificates shall have the full force and effect which this Indenture provides for the certificate of authentication of the Trustee; , , that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or to authenticate Securities in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business
provided
however
                    SECTION 611. . At any time when any of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series and the Trustee shall give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, in the manner provided for in Section 106. Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Any such appointment shall be evidenced by an instrument in writing signed by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, and a copy of such instrument shall be promptly furnished to the Company. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by U.S.
Appointment of Authenticating Agent
federal or state authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
                    Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
                    An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, in the manner provided for in Section 106. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section. The Trustee shall have no liability or responsibility for the action or inaction of any Authenticating Agent (that is not the Trustee).
                    The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section.
                    If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form:
                    This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
                    SECTION 701. . Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company, or the Trustee or any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in accordance with TIA Section 312, regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under TIA Section 312(b).
Disclosure of Names and Addresses of Holders
                    SECTION 702. . Within 60 days after May 15 of each year commencing with the first May 15 after the first issuance of Securities pursuant to this Indenture, the Trustee shall transmit to the Holders of Securities, in the manner and to the extent provided in TIA Section 313(c), a brief report dated as of such May 15 if required by TIA Section 313(a). The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing when any series of Securities are listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
Reports by Trustee
                    A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange if any, upon which the Securities are listed and with the Company.
                    SECTION 703. . The Company shall:
Reports by Company
                    Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee, which if pursuant to an EDGAR filing, the Trustee is not required to confirm, is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of the filing of such a report, its timeliness or any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including compliance by the Company with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to conclusively rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
                    SECTION 801. . The Company may not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Company May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms
                    SECTION 802. . Upon any consolidation by the Company with or merger by the Company with or into any other corporation or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to any Person in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, and be subject to every obligation of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, the Company (which terms shall for this purpose mean the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture or any previous successor Person which had become such in the manner described in Section 801), except in the case of a lease, shall be discharged of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities and may be dissolved and liquidated. For purposes of the foregoing, entirety or substantially as an entirety means any conveyance, transfer, lease or sale of property or assets representing more than 75% of the Company's total assets or revenues, determined on a consolidated basis as of the date of the last audit after giving pro forma effect to the conveyance, transfer, lease or sale.
Successor Person Substituted
                    SECTION 901. . Without the consent of any Holders, the Company when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
                    SECTION 902. . With the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture which affect such Securities or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of such Securities under this Indenture; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders
provided
however
                    It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
                    In accordance with the terms of this Indenture, the Company may create series of Securities under this Indenture which provide the Holders of such Securities with consent rights with respect to the addition, change or elimination of provisions of this Indenture which affect such Securities or the modification in any manner of the rights of the Holders of such Securities under this Indenture, in each case, in addition to such rights as set forth in this Section 902.
                    SECTION 903. . In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall receive, and shall be fully protected in conclusively relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
                    SECTION 904. . Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes;
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
                    SECTION 905. . Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act
                    SECTION 906. . Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee, the Company to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company, and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
                    SECTION 907. . Promptly after the execution by the Company and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of Section 902, the Company shall give written notice thereof to the Holders of each Outstanding Security affected, in the manner provided for in Section 106, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture.
Notice of Supplemental Indentures
                    SECTION 1001. . The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture. Principal of, and premium, if any, on the Securities shall be considered paid on the date it is due if the Trustee holds by 11:00 a.m. New York City time on that date Currency designated for and sufficient to pay all principal and premium, if any, then due.
Payment of Principal, Premium, if Any, and Interest
                    SECTION 1002. . If Securities of a series are issuable only as Registered Securities, the Company shall maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange, where Securities of that series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable, and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of each such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive such respective presentations, surrenders, notices and demands. Unless otherwise specified with
Maintenance of Office or Agency
respect to any Securities as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to a series of Securities, the Company hereby designates as a Place of Payment for each series of Securities the office or agency of the Trustee in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and initially appoints the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office as Paying Agent in such city and as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
                    The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all of such purposes, and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in accordance with the requirements set forth above for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301 with respect to a series of Securities, subject to the immediately preceding paragraph, the Company hereby designates as a Place of Payment for each series of Securities the office or agency of the Company, in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and initially appoints the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office as Paying Agent in such city and as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
                    Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, if and so long as the Securities of any series (i) are denominated in a Foreign Currency or (ii) may be payable in a Foreign Currency, or so long as it is required under any other provision of the Indenture, then the Company will maintain with respect to each such series of Securities, or as so required, at least one Exchange Rate Agent. The Trustee shall have no liability or responsibility for the action or inaction of any Paying Agent or Exchange Rate Agent (provided neither is the Trustee).
                    SECTION 1003. . If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or any premium and interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay the principal and any premium and interest on Securities of such series so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of its action or failure so to act.
Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust
                    Whenever there shall be one or more Paying Agents other than the Company for any series of Securities, it will, prior to each due date of the principal of or any premium and interest on any Securities, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum (in the Currency described in the preceding paragraph) sufficient to pay such amount so becoming due, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
                    The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will (i) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (ii) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities, and upon written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent for payment in respect of the Securities.
                    The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such sums.
                    Except as provided in the Securities of any series, and subject to any applicable abandoned property laws, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series, and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium and interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, shall at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in an Authorized Newspaper in each Place of Payment, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided
however
                    SECTION 1004. . The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, one of the signers of which shall be the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
Statement by Officers as to Default
                    SECTION 1005. . Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if its Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
Existence
                    SECTION 1006. . The Company agrees that it will not, and will not cause or permit any of its Subsidiaries to, create, assume, incur or guarantee any Indebtedness for borrowed money secured by a Lien on any Voting Stock or profit participating equity interests of any Designated Subsidiary, without providing that the Securities then Outstanding (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other Indebtedness for borrowed money of, or guarantee of any Indebtedness for borrowed money by, the Company ranking equally with the Securities) will be secured equally and ratably with or prior to all other Indebtedness secured by such Lien on the Voting Stock or profit participating equity interests of such Designated Subsidiary.
Restrictions on Liens
                    SECTION 1007. . Upon request of the Trustee or as otherwise necessary, the Company will execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts or as otherwise necessary may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Indenture.
Further Instruments and Acts
                    SECTION 1008. The Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods), if any, accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of such year.
Calculation of Original Issue Discount
.
                    SECTION 1009. . If any Securities of a series provide for the payment of additional amounts to any Holder who is not a United States person in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge ("Additional Amounts"), the Company will pay to the Holder of any Security of such series such Additional Amounts as may be specified as contemplated by Section 301. Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on, or in respect of, any Security of any series (or any payments pursuant to the Guarantee thereof) such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Amounts provided for in this Section to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this Section and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts in any provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
Additional Amounts
                    SECTION 1010. . The Company may, with respect to any series of Securities, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition which affects such series set forth in Section 1006, or, as specified pursuant to Section 301(17) for Securities of such series, in any covenants of the Company added to Article Ten pursuant to Section 301(17) in connection with Securities of such series, if the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of such series affected by such term, provision or condition, by Act of such Holders, waive such compliance in such instance with
Waiver of Certain Covenants
such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee to Holders of Securities of such series in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
                    SECTION 1101. . Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Applicability of Article
                    SECTION 1102. . The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by or pursuant to a Board Resolution. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee in writing of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and, in the case of a partial redemption, shall deliver to the Trustee such documentation and records as shall enable the Trustee to select the Securities to be redeemed pursuant to Section 1103. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
                    SECTION 1103. . If less than all the Securities of any series with the same terms are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series with the same terms not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem appropriate, subject to applicable law, and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions of the principal of Securities of such series; provided, however, that no such partial redemption shall reduce the portion of the principal amount of a Security not redeemed to less than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of such series established pursuant to Section 301.
Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed
                    The Trustee, acting through the Depositary, shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
                    For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security which has been or is to be redeemed.
                    SECTION 1104. . Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided for in Section 106 not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed.
Notice of Redemption
                    Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, all notices of redemption shall state:
                    Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's written request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company; provided in the latter case the Trustee will be given at least 5 Business Days prior notice of the day on which the Company wishes the Trustee to give notice.
                    SECTION 1105. . On or prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, which it may not do in the case of a sinking fund payment under Article Twelve, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest, if any, on, all the Securities or portions thereof which are to be redeemed on that date.
Deposit of Redemption Price
                    SECTION 1106. . Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) (together with accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date), and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any) such Securities shall, if the same were interest-bearing, cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date; provided, however, that installments of interest on Registered Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
                    If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) set forth in or contemplated by such Security.
                    SECTION 1107. . Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part (pursuant to the provisions of this Article or of Article Twelve) shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
Securities Redeemed in Part
                    SECTION 1108. . Each series of Securities may be redeemed at the option of the Company (or their successors) in whole but not in part at any time (except in the case of Securities that have a variable rate of interest, which may be redeemed on any Interest Payment Date) at a Redemption Price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption (except in the case of Outstanding Original Issue Discount Securities which may be redeemed at the Redemption Price specified by the terms of such series of Securities) if (i) the Company is or would be required to pay Additional Amounts as a result of any change in or amendment to the laws or any regulations or rulings promulgated thereunder of the United States (or in the case of a successor Person to the Company, of the jurisdiction in which such successor Person is organized or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein) or (ii) any change in the official application or interpretation of such laws, regulations or rulings, or any change in the official application or interpretation of, or any execution of or amendment to, any treaty or treaties affecting taxation to which the United States (or such other jurisdiction or political subdivision or taxing authority) is a party, which change, execution or amendment becomes effective on or after the date of issuance of such series pursuant to Section 301(22) (or in the case of a successor Person to the Company, the date on which such successor Person became such). Prior to the giving of notice of redemption of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate, stating that the Company is entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth in reasonable detail a statement of circumstances showing that the conditions precedent to the right of the Company to redeem such Securities pursuant to this Section have been satisfied.
Optional Redemption Due to Changes in Tax Treatment
                    SECTION 1201. . Retirements of Securities of any series pursuant to any sinking fund shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Applicability of Article
                    The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any mandatory sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
                    SECTION 1202. . Subject to Section 1203, in lieu of making all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to any Securities of a series in cash, the Company may at its option (1) deliver to the Trustee Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) theretofore purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company, and/or (2) receive credit for the principal amount of Securities of such series which have been previously delivered to the Trustee by the Company or for Securities of such series which have been redeemed either at the election
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of the same series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; provided, however, that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such mandatory sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
                    SECTION 1203. . Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering or crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 1202 (which Securities will, if not previously delivered, accompany such certificate) and whether the Company intends to exercise its right to make a permitted optional sinking fund payment with respect to such series. Such certificate shall be irrevocable and upon its delivery the Company shall be obligated to make the cash payment or payments therein referred to, if any, on or before the next succeeding sinking fund payment date. In the case of the failure of the Company to deliver such certificate, the sinking fund payment due on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date for that series shall be paid entirely in cash and shall be sufficient to redeem the principal amount of such Securities subject to a mandatory sinking fund payment without the option to deliver or credit Securities as provided in Section 1202 and without the right to make any optional sinking fund payment, if any, with respect to such series.
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
                    Not more than 60 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Section 1106 and 1107.
                    Prior to any sinking fund payment date, the Company shall pay to the Trustee or a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) in cash a sum equal to the principal (and premium, if any) and any interest that will accrue to the date fixed for redemption of Securities or portions thereof to be redeemed on such sinking fund payment date pursuant to this Section 1203.
                    Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a sinking fund for any series of Securities, if at any time the amount of cash to be paid into such sinking fund on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date, together with any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payment or payments for such series, does not exceed in the aggregate $100,000, the Trustee, unless requested by the Company, shall not give the next succeeding notice of the
redemption of Securities of such series through the operation of the sinking fund. Any such unused balance of moneys deposited in such sinking fund shall be added to the sinking fund payment for such series to be made in cash on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date or, at the request of the Company, shall be applied at any time or from time to time to the purchase of Securities of such series, by public or private purchase, in the open market or otherwise, at a purchase price for such Securities (excluding accrued interest and brokerage commissions, for which the Trustee or any Paying Agent will be reimbursed by the Company) not in excess of the principal amount thereof.
                    SECTION 1301. . Repayment of Securities of any series before their Stated Maturity at the option of Holders thereof shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Applicability of Article
                    SECTION 1302. . Securities of any series subject to repayment in whole or in part at the option of the Holders thereof will, unless otherwise provided in the terms of such Securities, be repaid at the Repayment Price thereof, together with interest, if any, thereon accrued to the Repayment Date specified in or pursuant to the terms of such Securities. The Company covenants that on or before the Repayment Date it will deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay the Repayment Price of, and (except if the Repayment Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest, if any, on, all the Securities or portions thereof, as the case may be, to be repaid on such date.
Repayment of Securities
                    SECTION 1303. . Securities of any series subject to repayment at the option of the Holders thereof will contain an "Option to Elect Repayment" form on the reverse of such Securities. To be repaid at the option of the Holder, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of such series, any Security so providing for such repayment, with the "Option to Elect Repayment" form on the reverse of such Security duly completed by the Holder (or by the Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), must be received by the Company at the Place of Payment therefor specified in the terms of such Security (or at such other place or places of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holders of such Securities) not earlier than 45 days nor later than 30 days prior to the Repayment Date. If less than the entire Repayment Price of such Security is to be repaid in accordance with the terms of such Security, the portion of the Repayment Price of such Security to be repaid, in increments of the minimum denomination for Securities of such series, and the denomination or denominations of the Security or Securities to be issued to the Holder for the portion of such Security surrendered that is not to be repaid, must be specified. Any Security providing for repayment at the option of the Holder thereof may not be repaid in part if, following such repayment, the unpaid principal amount of such Security would be less than the minimum
Exercise of Option
authorized denomination of Securities of the series of which such Security to be repaid is a part. Except as otherwise may be provided by the terms of any Security providing for repayment at the option of the Holder thereof, exercise of the repayment option by the Holder shall be irrevocable unless waived by the Company.
                    SECTION 1304. . If Securities of any series providing for repayment at the option of the Holders thereof shall have been surrendered as provided in this Article and as provided by or pursuant to the terms of such Securities, such Securities or the portions thereof, as the case may be, to be repaid shall become due and payable and shall be paid by the Company on the Repayment Date therein specified, and on and after such Repayment Date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of such Securities on such Repayment Date) such Securities shall, if the same were interest-bearing, cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for repayment in accordance with such provisions, the Repayment Price of such Security so to be repaid shall be paid by the Company, together with accrued interest, if any, to the Repayment Date; provided, however, that, in the case of Registered Securities, installments of interest, if any, whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Repayment Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
When Securities Presented for Repayment Become Due and Payable
                    If the principal amount of any Security surrendered for repayment shall not be so repaid upon surrender thereof, such principal amount (together with interest, if any, thereon accrued to such Repayment Date) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Repayment Date at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) set forth in or contemplated by such Security.
                    SECTION 1305. . Upon surrender of any Security which is to be repaid in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge and at the expense of the Company, a new Security or Securities of the same series, and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination specified by the Holder, in an aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the portion of the principal of such Security so surrendered which is not to be repaid.
Securities Repaid in Part
                    SECTION 1401. . Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, the provisions of this Article Fourteen shall apply to each series of Securities, and the Company may, at its option, effect defeasance of the Securities of or within a series under Section 1402, or covenant defeasance of or within a series under Section 1403 in accordance with the terms of such Securities and in accordance with this Article.
Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
                    SECTION 1402. . Upon the Company's exercise of its option to defease any Securities of or within a series, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to such Outstanding Securities on the date the
Defeasance and Discharge
conditions set forth in Section 1404 are satisfied (hereinafter, "defeasance"). For this purpose, such defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by such Outstanding Securities, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "Outstanding" only for the purposes of Section 1405 and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in (A) and (B) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (A) the rights of Holders of such Outstanding Securities to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 1404 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Securities when such payments are due, (B) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 304, 305, 306, 1002 and 1003 and with respect to the payment of Additional Amounts, if any, on such Securities as contemplated by Section 1009 and such obligations as shall be ancillary thereto, (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder including, without limitation, Section 606 and the penultimate paragraph of Section 1405 and (D) this Article Fourteen. Subject to compliance with this Article Fourteen, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 1402 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 1403 with respect to such Securities.
                    SECTION 1403. . Upon the Company's exercise of its option to defease the covenants that apply to Securities of or within a series, the Company shall be released from its obligations under Sections 801 and 802 and Section 1006, and, if specified pursuant to Section 301, its obligations under any other covenant, with respect to such Outstanding Securities on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1404 are satisfied (hereinafter, "covenant defeasance"), and such Securities shall thereafter be deemed not to be "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or Act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "Outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder. For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to such Outstanding Securities, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 501, as the case may be, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby.
Covenant Defeasance
                    SECTION 1404. . The following shall be the conditions to application of either Section 1402 or Section 1403 to any Outstanding Securities of or within a series:
Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
                    SECTION 1405. . Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and Government Obligations (or other property as may be provided pursuant to Section 301) (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 1405, the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 1404 in respect of such Outstanding Securities shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Deposited Money and Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions
                    Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Security pursuant to Section 301, if, after a deposit referred to in Section 1404(1) has been made, (a) the Holder of a Security in respect of which such deposit was made is entitled to, and does, elect pursuant to Section 312(b) or the terms of such Security to receive payment in a Currency other than that in which the deposit pursuant to Section 1404(1) has been made in respect of such Security, or (b) a Conversion Event occurs as contemplated in Section 312(d) or 312(e) or by the terms of any Security in respect of which the deposit pursuant to Section 1404(1) has been made, the indebtedness represented by such Security shall be deemed to have been, and will be, fully discharged and satisfied through the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Security as they become due out of the proceeds yielded by converting (from time to time as specified below in the case of any such election) the amount or other property deposited in respect of such Security into the Currency in which such Security becomes payable as a result of such election or Conversion Event based on the applicable Market Exchange Rate for such Currency in effect on the third Business Day prior to each payment date, except, with respect to a Conversion Event, for such Currency in effect (as nearly as feasible) at the time of the Conversion Event.
                    The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 1404 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of such Outstanding Securities.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the foregoing sentence shall survive the termination of this Indenture and the earlier resignation or removal of the Trustee.
                    Anything in this Article Fourteen to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or Government Obligations (or other property and any proceeds therefrom) held by it as provided in Section 1404 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect a defeasance or covenant defeasance, as applicable, in accordance with this Article.
                    SECTION 1406. . If the Trustee or any Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 1405 with respect to any Securities by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and such Securities shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 1402 or 1403, as the case may be, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 1405; provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any such Security following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Reinstatement
                    This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same Indenture.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, as of the day and year first above written.
                    This is to certify that as of the date hereof, and except as set forth below, the above-captioned Securities held by you for our account (i) are owned by person(s) that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations, any estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source or any trust if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust ("United States person(s)"), (ii) are owned by United States person(s) that are (a) foreign branches of United States financial institutions (financial institutions, as defined in United States Treasury Regulations Section 1.165-12(c)(1)(iv) are herein referred to as "financial institutions") purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (b) United States person(s) who acquired the Securities through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Securities through such United States financial institutions on the date hereof (and in either case (a) or (b), each such United States financial institution hereby agrees, on its own behalf or through its agent, that you may advise Legg Mason, Inc. or its agent that such financial institution will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (iii) are owned by United States or foreign financial institution(s) for purposes of resale during the restricted period (as defined in United States Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)), and, in addition, if the owner is a United States or foreign financial institution described in clause (iii) above (whether or not also described in clause (i) or (ii)), this is to further certify that such financial institution has not acquired the Securities for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States person or to a person within the United States or its possessions.
                    As used herein, "United States" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia); and its "possessions" include Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands.
                    We undertake to advise you promptly by tested telex on or prior to the date on which you intend to submit your certification relating to the above-captioned Securities held by you for our account in accordance with your Operating Procedures if any applicable statement herein is not correct on such date, and in the absence of any such notification it may be assumed that this certification applies as of such date.
                    This certificate excepts and does not relate to [U.S.$]__________ of such interest in the above-captioned Securities in respect of which we are not able to certify and as to which we understand an exchange for an interest in a permanent global Security or an exchange for and delivery of definitive Securities (or, if relevant, collection of any interest) cannot be made until we do so certify.
                    We understand that this certificate may be required in connection with certain tax legislation in the United States. If administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate or a copy thereof to any interested party in such proceedings.
Dated:
[To be dated no earlier than the 15th day prior to (i) the Exchange Date or (ii) the relevant Interest Payment Date occurring prior to the Exchange Date, as applicable]
                    This is to certify that based solely on written certifications that we have received in writing, by tested telex or by electronic transmission from each of the persons appearing in our records as persons entitled to a portion of the principal amount set forth below (our "Member Organizations") substantially in the form attached hereto, as of the date hereof, [U.S.$]__________ principal amount of the above-captioned Securities (i) is owned by person(s) that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations or any estate the income of which is subject to United States Federal income taxation regardless of its source or any trust if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust ("United States person(s)"), (ii) is owned by United States person(s) that are (a) foreign branches of United States financial institutions (financial institutions, as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.165-12(c)(1)(iv) are herein referred to as "financial institutions") purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (b) United States person(s) who acquired the Securities through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Securities through such United States financial institutions on the date hereof (and in either case (a) or (b), each such financial institution has agreed, on its own behalf or through its agent, that we may advise Legg Mason, Inc. or its agent that such financial institution will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (iii) is owned by United States or foreign financial institution(s) for purposes of resale during the restricted period (as defined in United States Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)) and, to the further effect, that financial institutions described in clause (iii) above (whether or not also described in clause (i) or (ii)) have certified that they have not acquired the Securities for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States person or to a person within the United States or its possessions.
                    As used herein, "United States" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia); and its "possessions" include Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands.
                    We further certify that (i) we are not making available herewith for exchange (or, if relevant, collection of any interest) any portion of the temporary global Security representing
the above-captioned Securities excepted in the above-referenced certificates of Member Organizations and (ii) as of the date hereof we have not received any notification from any of our Member Organizations to the effect that the statements made by such Member Organizations with respect to any portion of the part submitted herewith for exchange (or, if relevant, collection of any interest) are no longer true and cannot be relied upon as of the date hereof.
                    We understand that this certification is required in connection with certain tax legislation in the United States. If administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate or a copy thereof to any interested party in such proceedings.
Dated:
{To be dated no earlier than the Exchange Date or the relevant Interest Payment Date occurring prior to the Exchange Date, as applicable}

Exhibit 4.2
, dated as of May 21, 2012 (this ""), between , a Maryland corporation (the ""), and , a New York banking corporation, as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (in such capacity, the "").
          FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
Supplemental Indenture
LEGG MASON, INC.
Company
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON
Trustee
          WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee are parties to an Indenture dated as of May 21, 2012 (the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of one or more series of the Company's unsecured and unsubordinated debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (the ""), the terms of which are to be determined as set forth in Section 301 of the Indenture; and
Indenture
Securities
          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 901 of the Indenture, without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental to the Indenture to establish the form or terms of securities of any series as permitted by Sections 201 and 301 of the Indenture; and
          WHEREAS, pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture, the Company desires to create a new series of Securities under the Indenture, to be titled the 5.50% Senior Notes due 2019 in an initial aggregate principal amount of $650,000,000 (the "") and to establish the forms and the terms, conditions, rights and preferences thereof;
Notes
          WHEREAS, all action on the part of the Company necessary to authorize the issuance of the Notes under the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture has been duly taken; and
          WHEREAS, all acts and requirements necessary to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee as provided in the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, the valid and binding obligations of the Company and to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid and binding agreement in accordance with the Indenture have been done and performed;
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Notes, as follows:
          Section 1.01. . With respect to the Notes, this Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture. In the event of any inconsistency between the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture shall govern. The words "herein," "hereof," "hereunder," and words of similar import shall refer to this Supplemental Indenture.
Relationship with Indenture
          Section 1.02All terms contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall, except as specifically provided herein or except as the context may otherwise require, have the meanings defined in the Indenture. Solely with respect to the Notes and this Supplemental Indenture, the following definitions shall be added to Section 101 of the Indenture and replace any existing definitions (as applicable) in the Indenture, each in appropriate alphabetical order, unless the context requires otherwise.
. Definitions.
          "" means a global note substantially in the form of Exhibit A bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee, that shall be initially issued in aggregate denominations equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Note
          "" means Capital Stock of an entity primarily engaged in or related to, or property used or useful in, the asset management businesses engaged in by the Company and the Subsidiaries of the Company on May 21, 2012 or ancillary thereto.
Additional Assets
          "" means all additional interest owing on the Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
          "" means the Notes are unrated or rated below Investment Grade by both Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies); provided that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Broker-Dealer
          "" means any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all warrants or options to purchase any of the foregoing, and in each case including economic equivalents (other than, solely for the purposes of the covenant described under Article 6 hereunder, preferred stock that is nonparticipating, nonvoting and nonconvertible and reasonable amounts of shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all warrants or options to purchase any of the foregoing, and in each case including economic equivalents, granted to employees of the Company or employees of its Subsidiaries not in connection with a Change of Control and solely in connection with bona fide employee incentive or retention programs).
Capital Stock
          "" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
          (a) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's properties or assets and those of the Company's Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one of the wholly owned Subsidiaries of the Company;
          (b) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or
          (c) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) o the Exchange Act), becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50 percent of the Company's Voting Stock, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
          (d) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person or any direct or indirect parent
company of the surviving Person, immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
          (e) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or
          (f) the consummation of a so-called "going private/Rule 13e-3 Transaction" that results in any of the effects described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of Rule 13e-3 under the Exchange Act (or any successor provision).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction effected to create a holding company will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) pursuant to such transaction the Company becomes a wholly owned Subsidiary of such holding company and (2) the Holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following such transaction are the same as the Holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to such transaction.
          "" means the occurrence of a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Change of Control Repurchase Event
          "" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
Comparable Treasury Issue
          "" means, with respect to any redemption date, (a) the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) on the third business day preceding such redemption date, as set forth in the daily statistical release (or any successor release) published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and designated "Composite 3:30 p.m. Quotations for U.S. Government Securities" or (b) if such release (or any successor release) is not published or does not contain such prices on such business day, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Dealer Quotations, or (2) if fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations are obtained, the average of all such Quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
          "" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors who:
Continuing Directors
          (1) was a member of the Board of Directors on the first date that the Notes were issued; or
          (2) was nominated for election or elected to the Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of the Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election.
          "" means the 5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of October 14, 2005, as amended and restated by the Amended Agreement dated as of February 11, 2010 among the Company, as borrower, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and the other banks party thereto, as amended, extended, renewed, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified (in whole or in part, and without limitation as to amount, terms, conditions, covenants and other provisions) from time to time, and any agreement governing Debt in the form of loans incurred to refinance, in whole or in part, the borrowings and commitments then outstanding or permitted to be outstanding under such Credit Agreement or a successor Credit Agreement, whether a revolving credit facility, term loan facility or a combination thereof.
Credit Agreement
          "" means, with respect to any Person (without duplication): (a) the principal of and premium (if any) in respect of any obligation of such Person for money borrowed, and any obligation evidenced by notes, debentures, bonds or other similar instruments for the payment of which such Person is responsible or liable, (b) all obligations of such Person as lessee under leases required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee under generally accepted accounting principles and leases of property or assets made as part of any sale and leaseback transaction entered into by such Person, (c) all obligations of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property, all conditional sale obligations of such Person and all obligations of such Person under any title retention agreement (but excluding trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business), (d) all obligations of such Person for the reimbursement of any obligor on any letter of credit, banker's acceptance or similar credit transaction, (e) all obligations of the type referred to in clauses (a) through (d) of other Persons and all dividends of other Persons for the payment of which, in either case, such Person is responsible or liable, directly or indirectly, as obligor, guarantor or otherwise, including by means of any guarantee, (f) all obligations of the type referred to in clauses (a) through (d) of other Persons secured by any Lien on any property of such Person (whether or not such obligation is assumed by such Person), and (g) to the extent not otherwise included in this definition, obligations pursuant to any interest rate agreement, currency exchange protection agreement, commodity price protection agreement or any other similar agreement or arrangement of such Person.
Debt
          "" means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, substantially in the form of Exhibit A, except that such Note shall not bear the Global Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Note" attached thereto.
Definitive Note
          "" means (i) the sale or other disposition of any Capital Stock of a Designated Subsidiary by the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company or (ii) the issuance of Capital Stock by a Designated Subsidiary if, after giving effect thereto, the Company and its Subsidiaries own less than 80% of each series or class of the Capital Stock of such Designated Subsidiary; that a sale or other disposition of Capital Stock of a Designated Subsidiary or the issuance of Capital Stock of a Designated Subsidiary that would otherwise be a Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition shall not be a Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition so long as such sales, dispositions or issuances, measured cumulatively from May 16, 2012 to the date of such sale, disposition or issuance, relate to Capital Stock of one of more Designated Subsidiaries that manage in the aggregate, at their respective times of disposition, less than the lower of (a) $40 billion and (b) 10% of all Designated Subsidiaries' assets under management on the last day of the calendar month preceding the applicable sale, disposition or issuance of Capital Stock. The foregoing exception does not apply to a transaction, or series of transactions, that will exceed the threshold specified in the previous sentence.
Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition
provided
          "" means the amount of cash and the fair market value of any other consideration received in a Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition net of:
Disposition Amount
          (1) brokerage commissions and other fees and expenses (including fees and expenses of legal counsel, accountants and investment banks) attributable to the portion of the Capital Stock constituting such Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition,
          (2) provisions for taxes payable as a result of such Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition attributable to the portion of the Capital Stock constituting such Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition (after taking into account any available tax credits or deductions and any tax sharing arrangements), and
          (3) the amount of any payments that the Company estimates in good faith will be required to be made in respect of contingent liabilities directly attributable to such Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition and retained by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company after such Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition, that any amount remaining after adjustments, revaluations or liquidations of such contingent liabilities shall constitute a Disposition Amount,
provided
that if immediately prior to giving effect to such Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition, the Company and its Subsidiaries own 80% or greater of the class or series of Capital Stock that is the subject of such Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition, the "Disposition Amount" shall be limited to the portion of the amount of cash and the fair market value of any other consideration attributable to the Capital Stock sold, otherwise disposed of or issued that results in ownership by the Company and its Subsidiaries falling below 80% of the class or series of Capital Stock. For example, if immediately prior to giving effect to a Designated
provided
Subsidiary Stock Disposition, the Company and its Subsidiaries own 85% of the class or series of Capital Stock that is the subject of such Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition and after giving effect to such Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition, the Company and its Subsidiaries own 70% of such class or series of Capital Stock, the Disposition Amount shall equal the amount of cash and the fair market value of any other consideration received in such Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition, for 10% of the class or series of Capital Stock.
          "" means Registered Exchange Offer as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
          "" means New Securities as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Notes
          "" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(f)(ii) of this Supplemental Indenture, which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture.
Global Note Legend
          "" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Notes and the Unrestricted Global Notes, substantially in the form of Exhibit A with the appropriate legends specified in Section 2.06(f).
Global Notes
          "" means any of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
          "" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
          "" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's) and BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) (or, in each case, if such Rating Agency ceases to rate the Notes for reasons outside of the control of the Company, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any Rating Agency selected by the Company as a replacement Rating Agency).
Investment Grade
          "" means, with respect to the Notes, the date hereof and with respect to any additional Notes, the date of original issuance of such additional Notes.
Issue Date
          "" means a Global Note in the form of Exhibit A bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Legended Regulation S Global Note
          "" means, with respect to any property of any Person, any mortgage or deed of trust, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, security interest, lien, charge, encumbrance, preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever on or with respect to such property (including any capital lease obligation, conditional sale or other title retention agreement having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing or any sale and leaseback transaction).
Lien
          "" means Moody's Investor Services Inc., or any successor thereto, including a replacement rating agency selected by the Company as provided in the definition of Rating Agency.
Moody's
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Supplemental Indenture.
Notes
          "" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(f)(i) of this Supplemental Indenture to be placed on all Notes issued under this Indenture except as otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
          "" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
          "" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
Ratings Agency
          "" means each of Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and their respective successors and any other nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer") appointed from time to time by the Company; that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute for such entity another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
          "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing by such Reference Treasury Dealer as of 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
          "" means (a) with respect to the Notes issued on the date hereof, the Registration Rights Agreement dated the date hereof between the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley &
Registration Rights Agreement
Co. LLC, as representatives (the "Representatives") of the Purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 16, 2012 between the Company and the Representatives and (b) with respect to any additional Notes issued, any registration rights agreement between the Company and the other parties thereto relating to registration rights granted by the Company in respect of additional Notes.
          "" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
          "" means a Legended Regulation S Global Note or an Unlegended Regulation S Global Note, as appropriate and bearing the legend set forth in Section 2.06(f)(iii).
Regulation S Global Note
          "" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption; provided, however, that, if such redemption date is not an interest payment date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to, but excluding, such redemption date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
          "" means a Definitive Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Definitive Note
          "" means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Global Note
          "" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
          "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc., or any successor thereto, including a replacement rating agency selected by the Company as provided in the definition of Rating Agency.
S&P
          "" means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Shelf Registration Statement
          "" when used in connection with a Person that is not the Company has a correlative meaning to that set forth in the Base Indenture substituting the Person for the Company.
Subsidiary
          "" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per year equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity (computed as of the third business day immediately preceding such redemption date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
          "" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(o) under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
          "" means a Global Note in the form of Exhibit A bearing the Global Note Legend, deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee.
Unlegended Regulation S Global Note
          "" means one or more Definitive Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Definitive Note
          "" means a Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A that bears the Global Note Legend, that has the "Schedule of Exchanges Note" attached thereto, that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing a series of Notes, and that does not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Global Note
          "" as applied to stock of any Person, means shares, interests, participations or other equivalents in the equity interest (however designated) in such Person having ordinary voting power for the election of a majority of the directors (or the equivalent) of such Person, other than shares, interests, participations or other equivalents having such power only by reason of the occurrence of a contingency.
Voting Stock
          Section 1.03Unless the context requires otherwise, "interest" shall include Additional Interest (if any), even if not expressly mentioned, for purpose of the Notes only and not any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture (as modified by this Supplemental Indenture).
. Interest.
          Section 1.04The provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall apply only to the Notes and not to any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture and any covenants provided herein are solely for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes and not for the benefit of the Holders of any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture.
. Applicability.
          Section 2.01A new series of Securities is to be issued under the Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture. The series shall be titled the "5.50% Senior Notes due 2019."
. Issue Of Notes.
          Section 2.02The new series of Notes initially shall be issuable in the form of one or more Global Notes, registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. The Depository Trust Company shall be the Depositary for such Global Notes. The form and terms of the Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially as set forth in Exhibit A hereto. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Notes shall
. Form Of Notes, Authentication Certificate.
in all respects be subject to the terms, conditions and covenants of the Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture (including the form of Note set forth as Exhibit A hereto (the terms of which are incorporated in and made a part of this Supplemental Indenture for all intents and purposes). In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture and the provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall be controlling with respect to the Notes.
          Section 2.03The Company will initially issue $650,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Notes. The Notes may be reopened, without the consent of the Holders thereof, for increases in the aggregate principal amount of the Notes having the same ranking, interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Notes (except for the Issue Date and public offering price and Additional Interest which shall be governed by the Registration Rights Agreement applicable to the additional Notes). No additional Notes may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Notes. Any additional Notes, together with the original Notes, will constitute a single series under the Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture.
. Additional Notes.
          Section 2.04The terms and provisions contained in the form of Notes attached as Exhibit A shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Supplemental Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
. Terms Of Notes Incorporated.
          Section 2.05The Notes initially will be represented by one or more Global Notes in registered, global form without interest coupons. The Global Notes will be deposited upon issuance with the Trustee as custodian for the Depository Trust Company (""), and registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, in each case for credit to an account of a direct or indirect participant in DTC. Through and including 40 days after the date of or original issuance of the Notes (such 40 day period, the ""), beneficial interests in Regulation S Global Notes may be held only through Euroclear Bank, S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System ("") and Clearstream Banking, S.A. ("") (as indirect participants in DTC), unless transferred to a Person that takes delivery through a 144A Global Note in accordance with the certification requirements described in Section 2.06.
. Global Notes.
DTC
Restricted Period
Euroclear
Clearstream
          Section 2.06(a). A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary (who shall initially be DTC) to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes shall be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if (i) the Depositary (A) notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable
. Transfer And Exchange.
Global Notes
to continue as Depositary for the Global Notes or (B) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and in each case the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after receiving such notice or becoming aware of such condition; (ii) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of Definitive Notes in exchange for Global Notes (in whole but not in part); that in no event shall the Legended Regulation S Global Note be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes other than in accordance with Section 2.06(c)(ii); or (iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes and DTC requests such exchange. Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in subclauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of this Section 2.06(a) above, Definitive Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 304 and 306 of the Indenture. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in this Section 2.06; however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 2.06(b), (c) or (h) hereby.
provided
          (b) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture and the applicable procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
that if at the time a Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition has occurred, (a) (i) Moody's rating on the senior unsecured Debt of the Company is Baa1 or lower or (ii) S&P's rating on the senior unsecured Debt of the Company is BBB+ or lower, and the applicable Rating Agency has announced that the rating of the senior unsecured Debt of the Company is on watch for possible downgrade in connection with the Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition, or (b) the applicable Rating Agency has announced or publicly confirmed or informed the Trustee in writing that the rating of the senior unsecured Debt of the Company is on watch for possible downgrade to a rating below Baa3 or BBB-, the ratings test in this Section shall be applied on the earlier of (x) the date the watch has ended or (y) the 90th day after the Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition has occurred.
provided
          Section 6.04 In the event of the transfer of substantially all (but not all) of the assets of the Company as an entirety to a Person in a transaction covered by and effected in accordance with Section 801 of the Indenture, the successor or transferee party shall be deemed to have sold for cash at fair market value the Capital Stock of the Designated Subsidiaries not so transferred for purposes of Sections 6.02 and 6.03 and shall comply with the provisions of this Article 6 with respect to such deemed sale as if it were an Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition (with such fair market value being deemed to be the Disposition Amount for such purpose).
. Deemed Subsidiary Stock Dispositions.
          Section 6.05 . (a) Within 15 Business Days of becoming obligated to make a Stock Disposition Offer, the Company will mail a notice to the Holders of the Notes describing the transaction or transactions that gave rise to the Stock Disposition Offer and offering to purchase for cash at the Offered Price the Notes on a payment date specified in such notice, which shall be, subject to Section 6.03 and any contrary requirements of applicable law, a Business Day no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed.
.
Stock Disposition Offer Procedures
          (b) On or before the Stock Disposition Offer purchase date (the "Purchase Date"), the Company will, to the extent lawful:
          (c) Holders of Notes electing to have Notes purchased shall be required to surrender the Notes, with any appropriate forms duly completed, to the Company or its agent at the address specified in the notice at least three Business Days prior to the Purchase Date. Holders shall be entitled to withdraw their election if the Trustee or the Company receives not later than one Business Day prior to the Purchase Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of the Note that was delivered for purchase by the Holder and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing its election to have such Note purchased.
          (d) The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the purchase price for the Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; each new Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000.
provided that
          (e) The Company will comply with applicable tender offer rules, including the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other applicable laws and regulations in connection with the purchase of notes pursuant to a Stock Disposition Offer. To the extent the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Article 6, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Supplemental Indenture, the Notes or the Indenture hereunder by virtue of such conflict.
          Section 6.06Notwithstanding any other Section of this Article 6, any transaction described in clause (a) of the definition a Change of Control that results in a Change of Control Repurchase Event for which an offer to repurchase the Notes is otherwise required in accordance with the provisions described in Article 6 shall be governed by the provisions in Article 5 hereof and/or the provisions in Article Eight of the Indenture.
. Change Of Control Transactions.
          Section 7.01Subject to the rights of the Company and the Trustee set forth in Section 901 of the Indenture and in addition to the rights of the Holders of the Notes set forth in Section 902 of the Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may enter into a supplemental indenture to the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture which affect the Notes or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Notes under
. Amendments To This Supplemental Indenture And The Notes.
the Indenture only with the consent of Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Notes.
          Section 7.02The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes or the proper authorization or the due execution hereof or thereof by the Company.
. Certain Trustee Matters.
          Section 7.03Except as expressly supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the provisions thereof, and the Indenture (as further supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture) is in all respects hereby ratified and confirmed. This Supplemental Indenture and all its provisions shall be deemed a part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
. Continued Effect.
          Section 7.04All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Supplemental Indenture contained by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not.
. Provisions Binding On Company's Successors.
          Section 7.05This Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
. Governing Law.
          Section 7.06This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
. Counterparts.
, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF
          LEGG MASON, INC., a Maryland corporation (the "," which term includes any successor under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, promises to pay to ____________________, or its registered assigns, the principal sum of ____________ DOLLARS ($______) [or such other amount as indicated on the Schedule of Exchanges of Note attached hereto] on May 21, 2019.
Company
1
          Interest Rate: 5.50% per annum.
          Interest Payment Dates: May 21 and November 21, commencing November 21, 2012.
          Regular Record Dates: May 6 and November 6.
         Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed, manually or in facsimile.
          This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
1.
Title of Series; Indenture.
          This is one of a series of Securities issued under the indenture dated as of May 21, 2012 (as amended from time to time, the ""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 21, 2012 (the "") between the Company and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as so supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "." The title of the Securities of this series is 5.50% Senior Notes due 2019 (the "" or the ""). Capitalized terms used herein are used as defined in the Indenture unless otherwise indicated. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the Trust Indenture Act for a statement of all such terms. To the extent permitted by applicable law, in the event of any inconsistency between the terms of this Note and the terms of the Indenture, the terms of the Indenture will control.
Base Indenture
Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Notes
2019 Notes
          The Indenture limits the original aggregate principal amount of the Notes to $650,000,000, but additional Notes may be issued pursuant to the Indenture, and the originally issued Notes and all such additional Notes will form a single series of Securities.
2. Principal and Interest.
          The Company promises to pay the principal of this Note on May 21, 2019.
          The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note on each interest payment date, as set forth on the face of this Note, at the rate of 5.50% per annum (subject to adjustment as provided below).
          The interest on this Note is subject to adjustment upon changes in the ratings assigned to this Note by the Rating Agencies as further described in the Indenture.
          [The Holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of May 21, 2012 (the ""), among the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC as representatives of the Purchasers referred to
Registration Rights Agreement
therein. The interest rate on this Note is subject to increase on the terms and conditions set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.]
2
          Interest will be payable semiannually on each interest payment date, to the Holders of record of the Notes at the close of business on the May 6 or November 6 immediately preceding the interest payment date, commencing November 21, 2012.
          Interest on this Note will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid on this Note (or, if there is no existing default in the payment of interest and if this Note is authenticated between a regular record date and the next interest payment date, from such interest payment date) or, if no interest has been paid, from [May 21, 2012]. Interest will be computed in the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
3
          Interest not paid when due and any interest on principal, premium or interest not paid when due will be paid to the Persons that are Holders on a special record date as further described in the Indenture.
3.
Redemption and Repurchase.
          This Note is subject to optional redemption, and may be the subject of an offer to purchase upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Repurchase Event or a Designated Subsidiary Stock Disposition, as further described in the Indenture. There is no sinking fund or mandatory redemption applicable to this Note.
4.
Registered Form; Denominations; Transfer; Exchange.
          The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 principal amount and any multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. A Holder may register the transfer or exchange of Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Trustee may require a Holder to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. Pursuant to the Indenture, there are certain periods during which the Trustee will not be required to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Note or certain portions of a Note.
5.
Defaults and Remedies.
          If one of certain Events of Default, as defined in the Indenture, occurs with respect to the Notes and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least
25% in principal amount of the Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable. If a bankruptcy or insolvency Default with respect to the Company occurs and is continuing, the Notes automatically become due and payable. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it before it enforces the Indenture or the Notes. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of remedies.
6.
Amendment and Waiver.
          Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture and the Notes may be amended, or default may be waived, with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes. Without notice to or the consent of any Holder, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency if such amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Notes in any material respect.
7.
Authentication.
          This Note is not valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Note.
8.
Governing Law.
          This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
9.
Abbreviations.
          Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian) and U/G/M/A/ (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for Definitive Notes or a part of another Global Note have been made:
          FOR VALUE RECEIVED the undersigned registered Holder hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
Legg Mason, Inc. 100 International Drive Baltimore, Maryland 21202 Attention: Corporate Secretary (410) 539-0000
The Bank of New York Mellon [2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020 Chicago, IL 60602 Facsimile: 312-827-8542 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration]
          Re: 5.50% Notes due 2019 (the "Notes")
          Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of May 21, 2012 (the ""), between Legg Mason, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Mellon (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 21, 2012 (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "") among the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
          ___________________ (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount at maturity of $___________ in such Note[s] or interests (the ""), to ___________________________ (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
Transferor
Transfer
Transferee
          
o
1.. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Definitive Note Pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
          
o
2.. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a Person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Purchaser of the Notes from the Company pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 16, 2012, among the Company and the Representatives named therein). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Legended Regulation S Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Legended Regulation S Global Note, or a Definitive Note pursuant to Regulation S
          
o
3.. The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 144A or Regulation S
          
o
4..
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Note
          This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
Legg Mason, Inc. 100 International Drive Baltimore, Maryland 21202 Attention: Corporate Secretary (410) 539-0000
The Bank of New York Mellon [2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020 Chicago, IL 60602 Facsimile: 312-827-8542 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration]
          Re: 5.50% Notes due 2019 (the "Notes")
          Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of May 12, 2012 (the ""), between Legg Mason, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Mellon (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 21, 2012 (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), between the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
          __________________________ (the "") owns and proposes to exchange the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount at maturity of $____________ in such Note[s] or interests (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
Owner
Exchange
          1. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Unrestricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
          2. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
          This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.

Exhibit 4.3
May 21, 2012
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC 1585 Broadway New York, New York 10036
          As Representatives of the Purchasers
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Legg Mason, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to certain purchasers (the ""), for whom you are acting as representatives (the ""), $650,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.50% Senior Notes due 2019 (the ""), upon the terms set forth in the Purchase Agreement dated as of May 16, 2012 (the ""), among the Company and the Representatives relating to the initial placement (the "") of the Securities. To induce the Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement and to satisfy a condition to your obligations thereunder, the Company agrees with you for your benefit and the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Securities (including the Purchasers) (each a "" and, collectively, the ""), as follows:
Company
Purchasers
Representatives
Securities
Purchase Agreement
Initial Placement
Holder
Holders
          1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Purchase Agreement. The terms defined in this Section 1 include the plural as well as the singular. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
          "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Act
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 8 hereof.
Additional Interest
          "" has the meaning specified in Rule 405 under the Act and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" shall have meanings correlative thereto.
Affiliate
          " means the Indenture dated as of May 21, 2012 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Base Indenture"
          "" means the interest that would otherwise accrue on the Securities under the terms thereof and the Indenture, without giving effect to the provisions of this Registration Rights Agreement.
Base Interest
          "" means any broker or dealer registered as such under the Exchange Act.
Broker-Dealer
          "" means any calendar day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
Business Day
          "" means the date of the first issuance of the Securities.
Closing Date
          "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
          "" has the meaning indicated in Section 4(k)(ii) hereof.
Deferral Period
          "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
          "" means the 180-day period following the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer, exclusive of any period during which any stop order shall be in effect suspending the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
Exchange Offer Registration Period
" means a registration statement of the Company on an appropriate form under the Act with respect to the Registered Exchange Offer, all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments thereto, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
          "Exchange Offer Registration Statement
          "" means any Holder (which may include any Purchaser) that is a Broker-Dealer and elects to exchange for New Securities any Securities that it acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (but not directly from the Company or any Affiliate of the Company).
Exchanging Dealer
          "" means the Offering Memorandum dated May 16, 2012 relating to the Securities, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein as of such date.
Final Memorandum
          "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Holder
          "" means the Base Indenture, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture.
Indenture
          "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Initial Placement
          "" means, on any date, Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, registered under a Registration Statement.
Majority Holders
          "" means the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that administer an underwritten offering, if any, under a Registration Statement.
Managing Underwriters
          "" means debt securities of the Company identical in all material respects to the Securities (except that the transfer restrictions shall be modified or eliminated, as appropriate) to be issued under the New Securities Indenture.
New Securities
          "" means an indenture between the Company and the New Securities Trustee, identical in all material respects to the Indenture (except that the transfer restrictions for compliance with the Act and the provisions providing for the payment of Additional Interest under this Agreement shall be modified or eliminated, as appropriate), which may be the Indenture if in the terms thereof appropriate provision is made for the New Securities.
New Securities Indenture
          "" means the Trustee or another bank or trust company reasonably satisfactory to the Purchasers, as trustee with respect to the New Securities under the New Securities Indenture.
New Securities Trustee
          "" means the prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A or 430B under the Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Securities or the New Securities covered by such Registration Statement, and all amendments and supplements thereto, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
          "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Purchaser
          "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Purchase Agreement
          "" means the proposed offer of the Company to issue and deliver to the Holders of the Securities that are not prohibited by any law or policy of the Commission from participating in such offer, in exchange for the Securities, a like aggregate principal amount of the New Securities.
Registered Exchange Offer
          "" means (i) Securities other than those that have been (A) registered under a Registration Statement and disposed of in accordance therewith or (B) distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Act or any successor rule or regulation thereto that may be adopted by the Commission and (ii) any New Securities, the resale of which by the Holder thereof requires compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Act.
Registrable Securities
          "" means the security registrar for the Notes under the Indenture.
Registrar
          "" means any Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement that covers any of the Securities or the New Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, any amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments (in each case including the Prospectus contained therein), all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
          "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Securities
          "" means a registration effected pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
Shelf Registration
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration Period
          "" means a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 3 hereof which covers some or all of the Securities or New Securities, as applicable, on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
          "" means the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 21, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Supplemental Indenture
          "" means the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
Trustee
          "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Trust Indenture Act
          "" means any underwriter of Securities in connection with an offering thereof under a Shelf Registration Statement.
underwriter
          2. . (a) The Company shall prepare and use its reasonable best efforts to file, not later than 60 days following the Closing Date, with the Commission the Exchange Offer Registration Statement with respect to the Registered Exchange Offer. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective under the Act within 105 days of the Closing Date. The Company further agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Registered Exchange Offer no later than 150 days following the Closing Date.
Registered Exchange Offer
                    (b) Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly commence the Registered Exchange Offer, it being the objective of such Registered Exchange Offer to enable each Holder electing to exchange Securities for New Securities (assuming that such Holder complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, but not limited to making the representations and warranties set forth in Section 2(e)) to trade such New Securities from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the Act and without material restrictions under the securities laws of a substantial proportion of the several states of the United States.
                    (c) In connection with the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
                    (d) As soon as practicable after the close of the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
                    (e) Each Holder hereby acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Registered Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the New Securities (x) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission in Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation (pub. avail. May 13, 1988) and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (pub. avail. June 5, 1991), as interpreted in the Commission's letter to Shearman & Sterling dated July 2, 1993 and similar no-action letters; and (y) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Act in connection with any secondary resale transaction, which must be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K under the Act if the resales are of New Securities obtained by such Holder in exchange for Securities acquired by such Holder directly from the Company or one of its Affiliates. Accordingly, each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer shall be required to represent and warrant to the Company that, at the time of the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer:
                    (f) If any Purchaser represents to the Company that it is not eligible to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer with respect to the exchange of Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment, at the request of such Purchaser, the Company shall issue and deliver to such Purchaser or the person purchasing New Securities registered under a Shelf Registration Statement as contemplated by Section 3 hereof from such Purchaser, in exchange for such Securities, a like principal amount of New Securities. The Company shall use its best efforts to cause the CUSIP Service Bureau to issue the same CUSIP number for such New Securities as for New Securities issued pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer.
          3. . (a) If (i) the Company determines that it is not permitted to effect the Registered Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2 hereof; (ii) for any other reason the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated within 150 days of the Closing Date; (iii) upon receipt of a request from a Purchaser representing that it holds Securities that are not eligible to be exchanged for New Securities in the Registered Exchange Offer and that are held by it following consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer; (iv) any Holder (other than an Purchaser) is not eligible to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer due to applicable law or applicable interpretation of the Commission; or (v) in the case of any Purchaser that participates in the Registered Exchange Offer or acquires New Securities pursuant to Section 2(f) hereof, such Purchaser does not receive freely tradeable New Securities in exchange for Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment (it being understood that (x) the requirement that an Purchaser deliver a Prospectus containing the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K under the Act in connection with sales of New Securities acquired in exchange for such Securities shall result in such New Securities being not "freely tradeable;" and (y) the requirement that an
Shelf Registration
Exchanging Dealer deliver a Prospectus in connection with sales of New Securities acquired in the Registered Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities shall not result in such New Securities being not "freely tradeable"), the Company shall effect a Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with subsection (b) below.
                    (b) (i) The Company shall as promptly as practicable (but in no event more than 30 days after so required or requested pursuant to this Section 3), file with the Commission, and shall thereafter use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be declared effective under the Act, a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Securities or the New Securities, as applicable, by the Holders thereof from time to time; that no Holder (other than an Purchaser) shall be entitled to have the Securities held by it covered by such Shelf Registration Statement unless such Holder agrees in writing to be bound by all of the provisions of this Agreement applicable to such Holder; and , that with respect to New Securities received by a Purchaser in exchange for Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment, the Company may, if permitted by current interpretations by the Commission's staff, file a post-effective amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement containing the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection with respect thereto, and any such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as so amended, shall be referred to herein as, and governed by the provisions herein applicable to, a Shelf Registration Statement.
provided
provided
further
                          (ii) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the Act, in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period (the "") from the date the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the Commission until the earlier of (A) the first anniversary of the Closing Date or (B) the date upon which all the Securities or New Securities, as applicable, covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. The Company shall be deemed not to have used its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the Shelf Registration Period if it voluntarily takes any action that would result in Holders of Securities covered thereby not being able to offer and sell such Securities at any time during the Shelf Registration Period, unless such action is (x) required by applicable law or otherwise undertaken by the Company in good faith and for valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including the acquisition or divestiture of assets, and (y) permitted pursuant to Section 4(k)(ii) hereof.
Shelf Registration Period
          4. . In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement and, to the extent applicable, any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the following provisions shall apply.
Additional Registration Procedures
                    (a) The Company shall:
                              (i) furnish to each of the Representatives and to counsel for the Holders, not less than three Business Days prior to the filing thereof with the Commission, a copy of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any Shelf Registration Statement, and each amendment thereof and each amendment or supplement, if any, to the Prospectus included therein (including all documents incorporated by reference therein after the initial filing) and shall use its reasonable best efforts to reflect in each such document, when so filed with the Commission, such comments as the Representatives reasonably propose;
                              (ii) if requested by a Purchaser, include the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, in the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to the extent such Purchaser provides such information to the Company at least three Business Days prior to the filing of a Registration Statement with the Commission; and
                              (iii) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, include the names of the Holders and such other information regarding such Holders as is required by the Act (only to the extent a Holder provides such information to the Company) that propose to sell Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement as selling security holders.
                    (b) The Company shall ensure that:
                              (i) any Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming part thereof and any amendment or supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the Act; and
                              (ii) any Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, other than information included therein or omitted therefrom in reliance upon, or in conformity with, written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Holder specifically for use therein.
                    (c) The Company shall advise the Representatives, counsel for the Holders of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement and any Exchanging Dealer under any Exchange Offer Registration Statement that has provided in writing to the Company a telephone or facsimile number and address for notices, and, if requested by any Representative or any such Holder or Exchanging Dealer, shall confirm such advice in writing (which notice pursuant to clauses (ii)-(v) hereof shall be accompanied by an instruction to suspend the use of the Prospectus until the Company shall have remedied the basis for such suspension):
                              (i) when a Registration Statement and any amendment thereto has been filed with the Commission and when the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective;
                              (ii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or for additional information;
                              (iii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or the institution of any proceeding for that purpose;
                              (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the securities included therein for sale in any jurisdiction or the institution of any proceeding for such purpose; and
                              (v) of the happening of any event that requires any change in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus so that, as of such date, they (A) do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact and (B) do not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading.
                    (d) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of any Registration Statement or the qualification of the securities therein for sale in any jurisdiction.
                    (e) The Company shall furnish to each Holder of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, at least one copy of such Shelf Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including all material incorporated therein by reference, and, if the Holder so requests in writing, all exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein).
                    (f) The Company shall, during the Shelf Registration Period, deliver to each Holder of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including the Preliminary Prospectus) included in such Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Holder may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Securities in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Shelf Registration Statement.
                    (g) The Company shall furnish to each Exchanging Dealer which so requests, without charge, at least one copy of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including all material incorporated by reference therein, and, if the Exchanging Dealer so requests in writing, all exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein).
                    (h) The Company shall promptly deliver to each Purchaser, each Exchanging Dealer and each other person required to deliver a Prospectus during the Exchange Offer Registration Period, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus included in such Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as any such person may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by any Purchaser, any Exchanging Dealer and any such other person that may be required to deliver a Prospectus following the Registered Exchange Offer in connection with the offering and sale of the New Securities covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
                    (i) Prior to the Registered Exchange Offer or any other offering of Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement, the Company shall arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the Securities or the New Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder shall reasonably request and shall maintain such qualification in effect so long as required, but in no event longer than the Shelf Registration Period; that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject, or to service of process in suits, other than those arising out of the Initial Placement, the Registered Exchange Offer or any offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
provided
                    (j) The Company shall cooperate with the Holders of Securities or New Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Securities or New Securities to be issued or sold pursuant to any Registration Statement free of any restrictive legends and in such denominations and registered in such names as Holders may request in writing at least four (4)Business Days prior to the settlement date for the sales of Securities or New Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement.
                    (k) (i) Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by subsections (c)(ii) through (v) above, the Company shall promptly (or within the time period provided for by clause (ii) hereof, if applicable) prepare a post-effective amendment to the applicable Registration Statement or an amendment or supplement to the related Prospectus or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the Purchasers of the Securities included therein, the Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state
any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. In such circumstances, the period of effectiveness of the Registration Statement provided for in Section 2 or Section 3, as applicable, shall be extended by the number of days from and including the date of the giving of a notice of suspension pursuant to Section 4(c) to and including the date when the Purchasers, the Holders of the Securities and any known Exchanging Dealer shall have received such amended or supplemented Prospectus pursuant to this Section.
                              (ii) Upon the occurrence or existence of any pending corporate development or any other material event that, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, makes it appropriate to suspend the availability of a Registration Statement and the related Prospectus, the Company shall give notice (without notice of the nature or details of such events) to the Holders that the availability of the Registration Statement is suspended and, upon actual receipt of any such notice, each Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus provided for in Section 4(k)(i) hereof, or until it is advised in writing (the "") by the Company that the Prospectus may be used, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference in such Prospectus. The period during which the availability of the Registration Statement and any Prospectus is suspended (the "") shall not exceed 45 days in any three-month period or 90 days in any twelve-month period. In such circumstances, Shelf Registration Period shall be extended by the number of days from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Purchasers, the Holders of the Securities and any known Exchanging Dealer shall have received (x) such copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus provided for in Section 4(k)(i) hereof (if an amended or supplemented Prospectus is required); or (y) the Advice (if no amended or supplemented Prospectus is required).
Advice
Deferral Period
                    (l) Not later than the effective date of any Registration Statement, the Company shall provide a CUSIP, ISIN and Common Code numbers, as applicable, for the Securities or the New Securities, as the case may be, registered under such Registration Statement and provide the Trustee with printed certificates for such Securities or New Securities, in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company.
                    (m) The Company shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and shall make generally available to its security holders an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act as soon as practicable after the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement.
                    (n) The Company shall cause the New Securities Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, as required by applicable law, in a timely manner.
                    (o) The Company may require each Holder of Securities to be sold pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the distribution of such Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably require for inclusion in such Registration Statement. The Company may exclude from such Shelf Registration Statement the Securities of any Holder that fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request.
                    (p) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall enter into customary agreements (including, if requested, an underwriting agreement in customary form) and take all other appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of the Securities, and in connection therewith, if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to contain customary indemnification provisions and procedures.
                    (q) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall:
          The actions set forth in clauses (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of this paragraph (q) shall be performed at each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder.
                    (r) If a Registered Exchange Offer is to be consummated, upon delivery of the Securities by Holders to the Company (or to such other person as directed by the Company) in exchange for the New Securities, the Company shall mark, or caused to be marked, on the Securities so exchanged that such Securities are being cancelled in exchange for the New Securities. In no event shall the Securities be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied.
                    (s) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to take all other steps necessary to effect the registration of the Securities or the New Securities, as the case may be, covered by a Registration Statement.
          5. . The Company shall (i) bear all expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations under Sections 2, 3 and 4 hereof (except any underwriting discounts, commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or other disposition of Securities or New Securities by any Holder and any legal fees and expenses of any Holder, any Purchaser or any underwriter).
Registration Expenses
          6. . (a) The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, covered by any Registration Statement, each Purchaser and, with respect to any Prospectus delivery as contemplated in Section 4(h) hereof, each Exchanging Dealer, Affiliates of each such Holder, Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer and each person who controls any such Holder, Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject, under the Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement as originally filed, or any amendment thereof, or in any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred; that the Company shall not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Purchaser or information relating to any Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Holder, in each case, expressly for use therein; and provided, further, that the foregoing indemnification provisions shall not inure to the benefit of any Exchanging Dealer, its Affiliates or any person who controls such Exchanging Dealer who, in contravention of a requirement of applicable law, failed to deliver any Prospectus (as then amended or supplemented) to the person asserting any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary Prospectus, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, if such material misstatement or omission or alleged material misstatement or omission was cured in the Prospectus (as then amended or supplemented) and such
Indemnification and Contribution
provided, however,
Prospectus was required by law to be delivered at or prior to the written confirmation of sale to such person and the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto was provided by the Company to the Exchanging Dealer in the requisite quantity and on a timely basis to permit proper delivery on or prior to the closing of such sale by such Exchanging Dealer.
                    (b) Each Holder of Securities covered by a Registration Statement (including each Purchaser that is a Holder, in such capacity) will indemnify and hold harmless the Company against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which the Company may become subject, under the Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement as originally filed, or any amendment thereof, or in any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in any Registration Statement as originally filed, or any amendment thereof, or in any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Holder (including each Purchaser that is a Holder, in such capacity) expressly for use therein; and will reimburse the Company for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred.
                    (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under such subsection, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party otherwise than under such subsection unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses. In case any such action shall be brought against any indemnified party and it shall notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party shall be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it shall wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and, after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to such indemnified party under such subsection for any legal expenses of other counsel or any other expenses, in each case subsequently incurred by such indemnified party, in
connection with the defense thereof. No indemnifying party shall, without the written consent of the indemnified party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified party is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the indemnified party from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include any statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party. No indemnified party shall, without the written consent of the indemnifying party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnifying party is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the indemnifying party from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include any statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnifying party.
                    (d) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 6 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the indemnifying party on the one hand and the indemnified party on the other from the Initial Placement of the Securities and the Registration Statement. If, however, the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is not permitted by applicable law or if the indemnified party failed to give the notice required under subsection (c) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to such amount paid or payable by such indemnified party in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of such indemnifying party on the one hand and such indemnified party on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the Initial Placement (before deducting expenses) as set forth in the Final Memorandum. Benefits received by the Purchasers shall be deemed to be equal to the total purchase discounts and commissions received in connection with the Initial Placement, and benefits received by any other Holders shall be deemed to be equal to the value of receiving Securities or New Securities, as applicable, registered under the Act. Benefits received by any underwriter shall be deemed to be equal to the total underwriting discounts and commissions, as set forth on the cover page of the Prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement which resulted in such
losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof). The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the indemnifying party on the one hand or the indemnified party on the other and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this subsection (d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this subsection (d). The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to above in this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Purchaser shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the Securities purchased by such Purchaser under the Purchase Agreement. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Purchasers' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective obligations to purchase the Securities under the Purchase Agreement and not joint.
                    (e) The obligations of the Company under this Section 6 shall be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each person, if any, who controls any Holder or any indemnified persons referred to in this Section 6 within the meaning of the Act; and the obligations of the Purchasers or Holders under this Section 6 shall be in addition to any liability which the respective Purchasers or Holders may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each officer and director of the Company and to each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Act.
          7. . (a) If any of the Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the Managing Underwriters shall be selected by the Majority Holders, provided that such Managing Underwriters shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Company.
Underwritten Registrations
                    (b) No person may participate in any underwritten offering pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement, unless such person (i) agrees to sell such person's Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, on the basis reasonably provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements; and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and
other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
          8. . (a) If (i) an Exchange Offer Registration Statement has not been declared effective on or prior to 105 days after the date of the original issuance of the Securities or (ii) the Company is required to file the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with Section 3 and the Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective within 105 days after the original issuance of the Securities (each such event referred to in clauses (i) and (ii), a " "), the Company shall be obligated to pay additional interest ("") to each Holder of Registrable Securities, during the period of such Registration Default, at a rate of 0.25% per annum on the applicable principal amount of Registrable Securities held by such Holder for the first 45-day period that such an event occurs. If such an event occurs and is continuing for a period of more than 45 days, then the amount of Additional Interest the Company shall be obligated to pay on the Securities will increase, effective from and after the 46th day by an additional 0.25% per annum.
Additional Interest
Registration
Default
Additional Interest
                    (b) If the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has been declared effective, but the Registered Exchange Offer has not been consummated on or prior to the date that is 150 days after the original issuance of the Securities, then the annual interest rate borne by the Securities will be increased by 0.25% on the applicable principal amount. If such an event occurs and is continuing on the date that is 180 days after the original date of issuance of the Securities, then the annual interest rate borne by the Securities shall increase by an additional 0.25%.
                    (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will the rate of Additional Interest required by this Section 8 exceed 0.50% per annum. Once (i) the Registered Exchange Offer is consummated with respect to all properly tendered Securities or (ii) the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective, the accrual of Additional Interest will cease.
                    (d) The Company shall notify the Trustee and the paying agent under the Indenture promptly following the occurrence of each and every Registration Default. The Company shall pay the Additional Interest due on the Registrable Securities by depositing with the paying agent (which may not be the Company for these purposes), in trust, for the benefit of the Holders thereof, prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the next applicable interest payment date specified by the Indenture and the Securities, sums sufficient to pay the Additional Interest then due. The Additional Interest due shall be payable on each applicable interest payment date specified by the Indenture and the Securities to the record holder entitled to receive the interest payment to be made on such date. Each obligation to pay Additional Interest shall be deemed to accrue from and include the date of the applicable Registration Default.
                    (e) The parties hereto agree that the Additional Interest provided for in this Section 8 constitute a reasonable estimate of and are intended
to constitute the sole damages that will be suffered by Holders of Registrable Securities by reason of the failure of (i) the Shelf Registration Statement to be filed, (ii) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective or (iii) the Registered Exchange Offer to be consummated, in each case to the extent required by this Agreement.
          9. . The Company has not entered into, and agrees not to enter into, any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders herein or that otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements
          10. . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities outstanding; provided that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each such Purchaser against which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent is to be effective; , , that no amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent with respect to Section 8 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registered Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder; and , , that the provisions of this Section 10 may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Purchasers and each Holder. Notwithstanding the foregoing (except the foregoing provisos), a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may be given by the Majority Holders, determined on the basis of Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, being sold rather than registered under such Registration Statement.
Amendments and Waivers
provided
further
provided
further
          11. . All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail, facsimile or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
Notices
          All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when received.
          The Purchasers or the Company by notice to the other parties may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
          12. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns, including, without the need for an express assignment or any consent by the Company thereto, subsequent Holders of Securities and the New Securities, and the indemnified persons referred to in Section 6 hereof. The Company hereby agrees to extend the benefits of this Agreement to any Holder of Securities and the New Securities, and any such Holder may specifically enforce the provisions of this Agreement as if an original party hereto. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire the Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Securities shall be held subject to all the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture.
Successors
          13. . This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
          14. . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
          15. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York. The parties hereto each hereby waive any right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim arising out of or relating to this Agreement.
Applicable Law
          16. . In the event that any one of more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstances, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way impaired or affected thereby, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Severability
          17. . Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of principal amount of Securities or New Securities is required hereunder, Securities or New Securities, as applicable, held by the Company or its Affiliates (other than subsequent Holders of Securities or New Securities if such subsequent Holders are deemed to be Affiliates solely by reason of their holdings of such Securities or New Securities) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
Securities Held by the Company, etc
          If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement between the Company and the several Purchasers.
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
For themselves and the other several Purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement.
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
For themselves and the other several Purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement.

Exhibit 10.1
          NOTE EXCHANGE AGREEMENT dated as of May 16, 2012 among Legg Mason, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the ""), KKR I-L Limited (the ""), Citibank, N.A. (""), Credit Suisse International (""), HSBC Bank USA, National Association ("" and, together with Citi and CS, the "", and together with the KKR Holder, the "" and each, a "") and, solely for purposes of Sections 1, 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8 hereof, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. ("").
Company
KKR Holder
Citi
CS
HSBC
Other Holders
Holders
Holder
KKR
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement dated as of January 14, 2008 among the Company, the Purchasers named therein and KKR, as amended on January 30, 2008 and modified by the waiver letter dated May 5, 2008 (as so amended, the ""), the Company issued and sold $1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (the "");
Note Purchase Agreement
Notes
          WHEREAS, in connection with such Note Purchase Agreement, (i) KKR and the Company entered into a Standstill Agreement dated as of January 14, 2008 (the "") and (ii) the Company, the KKR Holder, CS and HSBC entered into a Registration Rights Agreement dated as of January 31, 2008 (the "");
2008 Standstill Agreement
2008 Registration Rights Agreement
          WHEREAS, the Company desires to repurchase the Notes from the Holders pursuant to this Agreement (the ""), and each Holder, severally, desires to sell to the Company Notes in an aggregate principal amount set forth opposite such Holder's name in Schedule I hereto for (i) cash in an amount equal to the Purchase Price (as defined below) for the principal amount of Notes set forth opposite such Holder's name in Schedule I hereto, accrued and unpaid interest on such Notes to, but excluding, the Closing Date, (ii) the Prepayment Consideration (as defined below) applicable to such Holder, and (iii) the Number of Warrants (each, a "") applicable to such Holder, subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 5.7, each Warrant entitling the holder thereof to purchase shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.10 per share (the ""), having an exercise price of $88.00 per share (the "") and the other terms set forth in the form of warrant agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A;
Note Repurchase
plus
Warrant
Common Stock
Exercise Price
          WHEREAS, the parties to the Note Purchase Agreement and the 2008 Registration Rights Agreement (collectively, the " ") wish to terminate such agreements effective as of the Closing Date; and
2008
Transaction Agreements
          WHEREAS, the parties to the 2008 Standstill Agreement desire to amend the 2008 Standstill Agreement effective as of the Closing Date.
          NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, representations, warranties and covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          1. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following respective meanings:
Definitions
          "" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person; that with respect to KKR, each Affiliated Entity of KKR, the KKR Holder and each Affiliate of an Affiliated Entity of KKR or the KKR Holder shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of KKR; that an "Affiliate" of KKR shall not include portfolio companies and non-private equity affiliates directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with KKR.
Affiliate
provided
provided further
          "" shall mean with respect to KKR, any investment fund or holding company formed for investment purposes, other than portfolio companies and non-private equity affiliates, that is primarily managed, advised or serviced by KKR or by an Affiliate of KKR.
Affiliated Entity
          "" means the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement between KKR and the Company substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit D hereto.
Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement
          "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Indenture.
Applicable Consideration
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 of the rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act, except that for purposes of this Agreement the words "within sixty days" in Rule 13d-3(d)(1)(i) shall not apply, to the effect that a Person shall be deemed to be the beneficial owner of a security if that Person has the right to acquire beneficial ownership of such security at any time.
Beneficially Own
          "" or "" shall mean employee benefit plans as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA and all other employee and director benefit practices or arrangements, including employee stock purchase plans and phantom stock plans, and any such practices or arrangements providing severance pay, sick leave, vacation pay, salary continuation for disability, retirement benefits, deferred compensation, bonus pay, incentive pay, stock options or other stock-based compensation, hospitalization insurance, medical insurance, life insurance, scholarships or tuition reimbursements, maintained by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is obligated to contribute for employees or former employees.
Benefit Plan
Benefit Plans
          "" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions are not required to be open in the State of New York.
Business Day
          "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
          "" means the eight separate confirmations, each dated January 14, 2008, as amended, between the Company and each of Bank of America, N.A., Goldman Sachs & Co., JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association and Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc., relating to the bond hedge and warrant transactions executed in connection with the issuance of the Notes by the Company.
Confirmations Relating to the Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions
          "" (including the terms "" "" and "") with respect to any Person means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the
Control
controlling
controlled by
under common control with
power to direct or cause the direction of the management policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
          "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Indenture.
Conversion Rate
          "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
          "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and all of the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
          "" means any United States or foreign governmental or regulatory agency, commission, court, body, entity or authority.
Governmental Entity
          "" means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
HSR Act
          "" means the Indenture, dated as of January 31, 2008, between the Company and the Bank of New York as trustee, relating to the Notes.
Indenture
          "" means any fact, circumstance, event, change, effect or occurrence that, individually or in the aggregate with all other facts, circumstances, events, changes, effects, or occurrences, prevents or materially delays or materially impairs the ability of the Company to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, the Warrant Agreement and the Warrants.
Material Adverse Effect
          "" means an individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, business trust, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture or any other entity or organization.
Person
          "" means the Registration Rights Agreement between the KKR Holder and the Company substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto.
Registration Rights Agreement
          "" shall mean the Warrants and the Common Stock or other securities issuable upon exercise of the Warrants.
Securities
          "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and all of the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
          "" when used with respect to any party means any corporation or other organization, whether incorporated or unincorporated, at least a majority of the securities or other interests of which having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or others performing similar functions with respect to such corporation or other organization is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such party or by any one or more of its Subsidiaries, or by such party and one or more of its Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
          "" means the press release to be issued by the Company relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and other related matters, in the form provided to KKR by the Company.
Transaction Press Release
          "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Warrant Agreement.
Warrant Agent
          "" means the Warrant Agreement between the Company and the Warrant Agent substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto.
Warrant Agreement
          2. .
Closing Transactions
                    2.1 . Subject to and upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement each of the following shall occur at the Closing:
Closing Transactions
                    2.2 .
Closing
          3. . The Company hereby represents and warrants to each of the Holders as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
                    3.1 .
Organization and Power
                    3.2 Capitalization.
                    3.3 . The Company has all requisite corporate power to enter into this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, the Warrant Agreement and the Warrants and to carry out and perform its obligations under the terms of this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, the Warrant Agreement and the Warrants. All corporate action on the part of the Company, its officers, directors and stockholders necessary for the authorization, execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, the Warrant Agreement and the Warrants and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein has been taken. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, the Warrant Agreement and the Warrants by the Company, the issuance of Common Stock upon exercise of the Warrants in accordance with their terms and the consummation of the other transactions contemplated herein do not require any approval of the Company's stockholders. Assuming this Agreement constitutes the legal, valid and binding agreement of the Holders and KKR (to the extent this Agreement is applicable to KKR), this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance and similar laws relating to or affecting creditors generally or by general equity principles, including without limitation concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and except as rights to indemnity may be limited by applicable federal and state securities laws and principles of public policy. Upon execution by the Company and the other parties thereto and assuming that they constitute legal, valid and binding agreements of the other parties thereto, each of the Registration Rights Agreement, the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement and the Warrant Agreement will constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance and similar laws relating to or affecting creditors generally or by general equity principles, including without limitation concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and except as rights to indemnity and contribution under the Registration Rights Agreement may be limited by applicable federal and state securities law and principles of public policy.
Authorization
                    3.4 . (a) The Warrants will, upon issuance pursuant to the terms hereof be valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance and similar laws relating to or affecting creditors generally or by general equity principles, including without limitation concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Valid Issuance
                    3.5 . The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, the Warrant Agreement and the Warrants by the Company, the issuance of the Common Stock upon exercise of the Warrants in accordance with their terms and the consummation of the other transactions contemplated hereby will not (i) conflict with or result in any violation of any provision of the articles of incorporation or by-laws of the Company, (ii) result in any breach or violation of, or default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under, require consent under, or give rise to a right of termination, cancellation, modification or acceleration of any obligation or to the loss of any benefit under any loan, guarantee of indebtedness or credit agreement, note, bond, mortgage, indenture, lease, agreement, contract, purchase or sale order, instrument, permit, concession, franchise, right or license binding upon the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than, for the avoidance of doubt, the Confirmations relating to the Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions) or result in the creation of any liens, claims, mortgages, encumbrances, pledges, security interests, equities or charges of any kind (each, a "") upon any of the properties, assets or rights of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iii) assuming (A) the accuracy of the representations made by the Holders in Section 4 hereof, (B) the consents, approvals, orders and authorizations referred to in clauses (ii) and (iii) of Section 3.6 have been obtained and (C) the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods referred to in clause (i) of Section 3.6, conflict with or violate any applicable federal, state, local or foreign or provincial law, statute, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, judgment, order, injunction, decree or agency requirement of or undertaking to or agreement with any Governmental Entity, including common law (collectively, "" and each, a ""), (x) other than, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect and (y) except that if KKR and any Affiliated Entity with respect to KKR Beneficially Own more than 10% of the Company's Common Stock, certain funds advised or managed by the Company's Subsidiaries may be required to take action with respect to securities sponsored by KKR and its Affiliated Entities.
No Conflict
Lien
Laws
Law
                    3.6 . All consents, approvals, orders and authorizations required on the part of the Company or its Subsidiaries in connection with the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, the Warrant Agreement and the Warrants and the issuance of the Common Stock upon exercise of the Warrants in accordance with their terms have been obtained or made, other than (i) the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting periods under the HSR Act
Consents
or any applicable requirements under foreign law in connection with the issuance of Common Stock upon exercise of the Warrants, (ii) those to be obtained, in connection with the registration of Securities under the Registration Rights Agreement, under the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and Exchange Act and any related filings and approvals under applicable state securities laws, and (iii) such consents, approvals, orders and authorizations the failure of which to make or obtain would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
                    3.7 . There are no (i) investigations or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened by any Governmental Entity with respect to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets, (ii) actions, suits, arbitrations, claims or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective properties or assets, at law or in equity, or (iii) orders, judgments or decrees of any Governmental Entity against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, which, in the case of clauses (i), (ii) or (iii), individually or in the aggregate, would be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Litigation
                    3.8 . The Common Stock is registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (""), and the Company has no action pending to terminate the registration of the Common Stock under the Exchange Act or delist the Common Stock from NYSE, nor has the Company received any notification that the SEC or the NYSE is currently contemplating terminating such registration or listing.
NYSE
NYSE
                    3.9 . The Company has been advised of the rules and requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the ""). The Company is not, and immediately after the repurchase of the Notes and issuance of the Warrants will not be, required to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act.
Company Not Required to Register as an "Investment Company"
Investment Company Act
                    3.10 . Neither the Company nor any other Person authorized by the Company to act on its behalf has engaged in a general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D of the Securities Act) of investors with respect to offers or sales of the Warrants. The Company has not, directly or indirectly, sold, offered for sale, solicited offers to buy or otherwise negotiated in respect of, any security (as defined in the Securities Act) which, to its knowledge, is or will be integrated with the Warrants sold pursuant to this Agreement.
General Solicitation; No Integration
          4. . KKR and each Holder, severally for itself and not jointly, represents and warrants to the Company as follows:
Representations and Warranties of KKR and Each Holder
                    4.1 . Each of KKR and such Holder is a legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has the requisite power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and assets and to carry on its business as presently conducted.
Organization
                    4.2 . Each of KKR and such Holder has all requisite corporate or similar power to enter into this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Amended
Authorization
and Restated Standstill Agreement and to carry out and perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder, in each case, to the extent that it is a party thereto. All corporate, member or partnership action on the part of KKR and such Holder or their respective stockholders, members or partners necessary for the authorization, execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, in each case, to the extent that it is a party thereto, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein has been taken. Assuming this Agreement constitutes the legal, valid and binding agreement of the Company, this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of KKR and such Holder, enforceable against KKR and such Holder in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance and similar laws relating to or affecting creditors generally or by general equity principles, including without limitation concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). Upon their respective execution by KKR and such Holder, to the extent that KKR or such Holder is a party thereto, and by the other parties thereto, and assuming that they constitute legal and binding agreements of the Company, each of the Registration Rights Agreement and the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement will constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of KKR and such Holder, enforceable against KKR and such Holder in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance and similar laws relating to or affecting creditors generally or by general equity principles, including without limitation concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), in each case, to the extent that it is a party thereto.
                    4.3 . The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by KKR and such Holder and the consummation by KKR and such Holder of the transactions contemplated hereby will not (i) conflict with or result in any violation of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or by-laws or other equivalent organizational document, in each case as amended, of KKR or such Holder, as applicable, (ii) result in any breach or violation of, or default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under, require consent under, or give rise to a right of termination, cancellation, modification or acceleration of any obligation or to the loss of any benefit under any loan, guarantee of indebtedness or credit agreement, note, bond, mortgage, indenture, lease, agreement, contract, purchase or sale order, instrument, permit, concession, franchise, right or license binding upon KKR or such Holder, as applicable (other than, for the avoidance of doubt, any swap agreement with respect to Notes to which the KKR Holder is party, the "," which KKR Swap Agreements shall be terminated in connection with the Closing), or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the properties, assets or rights of KKR or such Holder, as applicable, or (iii) conflict with or violate any applicable Laws, other than, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to materially delay or hinder the ability of KKR or such Holder to perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, in each case, to the extent that KKR or such Holder is a party thereto (a "").
No Conflict
KKR Swap Agreements
KKR/Holder Adverse Effect
                    4.4 . All consents, approvals, orders and authorizations required on the part of KKR and such Holder in connection with the execution, delivery or performance of this
Consents
Agreement and the consummation by KKR and such Holder of the other transactions contemplated herein have been obtained or made, other than (i) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act or any applicable requirements under foreign law in connection with the issuance of Common Stock to the KKR Holder upon exercise of the Warrants, and (ii) such consents, approvals, orders and authorizations the failure of which to make or obtain, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a KKR/Holder Adverse Effect.
                    4.5 . There are no suits, claims, actions, proceedings, arbitrations, mediations or investigations pending or, to the knowledge of KKR and such Holder, threatened against KKR or such Holder that would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a KKR/Holder Adverse Effect. Neither KKR nor such Holder is subject to any order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree or award that would, individually or in the aggregate, have a KKR/Holder Adverse Effect.
Absence of Litigation
                    4.6 . At the Closing, each Holder will hold the Notes to be sold by such Holder at the Closing free and clear of any Liens (other than any Liens on the Notes to secure the KKR Holder's obligations under the KKR Swap Agreements, which Liens shall be released upon Closing).
No Liens
                    4.7 . Each Holder has executed and delivered the applicable Swap Unwind Agreement to which it is a party, and a true and complete copy of each such Swap Unwind Agreement (including any amendments thereto) has been delivered by the KKR Holder to the Company; that the Company agrees not to disclose or furnish any such Swap Unwind Agreement or the terms thereof to any third party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may disclose or furnish any such Swap Unwind Agreement or the terms thereof to a third party to the extent required by applicable law or the rules of any relevant national securities exchange.
Swap Unwind Agreements
provided
                    4.8 . Neither KKR nor such Holder has retained, utilized or been represented by any broker or finder in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement whose fees the Company would be required to pay.
Brokers
                    4.9 . Such Holder is acquiring the Warrants for its own account, and not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, any distribution of the Warrants in violation of the Securities Act. Such Holder has no present agreement, undertaking, arrangement, obligation or commitment providing for the disposition of the Warrants, other than to the KKR Holder as contemplated by Section 2.2 in connection with the termination of the KKR Swap Agreements in satisfaction of such Holder's obligation under the applicable Swap Unwind Agreement.
Purchase Entirely for Own Account
                    4.10 . Such Holder certifies and represents to the Company that it is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act and a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act. Such Holder's financial condition is such that it is able to bear the risk of holding the Warrants for an indefinite period of time and the risk of loss of its entire investment. Such
Investor Status
Holder has sufficient knowledge and experience in investing in companies similar to the Company so as to be able to evaluate the risks and merits of its investment in the Company.
                    4.11 . Such Holder understands that the Securities have not been registered under the Securities Act, by reason of their issuance by the Company in a transaction exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, and that the Securities must continue to be held by such Holder unless a subsequent disposition thereof is registered under the Securities Act or is exempt from such registration. Such Holder understands that the exemptions from registration afforded by Rule 144 (the provisions of which are known to it) promulgated under the Securities Act depend on the satisfaction of various conditions. Such Holder shall transfer the Securities only in compliance with the Transfer Restrictions set forth in the Warrant Agreement or as contemplated by Section 2.2(b) hereof.
Securities Not Registered
          5. .
Covenants
                    5.1 . The Company and each Holder acknowledge that one or more filings under the HSR Act or foreign antitrust laws may be necessary in connection with the issuance of shares of Common Stock upon exercise of the Warrants. Each Holder will promptly notify the Company if any such filing is required on the part of such Holder. To the extent required, the Company, each Holder and any other Affiliate of such Holder will cooperate in making any required filings under the HSR Act or any foreign antitrust requirements in connection with the issuance of shares of Common Stock upon exercise of Warrants held by such Holder.
HSR Approval
                    5.2 . The Company will at all times have and keep available for issuance such number of shares of Common Stock as shall be sufficient to permit the exercise of the Warrants into Common Stock as provided for in the terms of the Warrants, including as may be adjusted for share splits, combinations or other similar transactions as of the date of determination. To the extent not already listed, subject to official notice of issuance, the Company will use reasonable commercial efforts to cause any Common Stock issued upon exercise of the Warrants to be listed with the stock exchange or quotation system on which the Common Stock may then be listed by the Company.
Shares Issuable Upon Exercise of Warrants
                    5.3 . The Company will use reasonable commercial efforts to (a) permit the Warrants to be eligible for PORTAL trading securities in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. relating to the PORTAL Market as of the Closing or as promptly as practicable thereafter and (b) obtain all necessary Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures numbers (CUSIP numbers) for the Warrants required for creating a market in warrants traded pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act or that are not "restricted securities" for purposes of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, in each case as of the Closing or as promptly as practicable thereafter. The KKR Holder will provide all reasonable assistance and cooperation as may be requested by the Company to effectuate the intent and purposes of this Section 5.3.
PORTAL and CUSIPs
                    5.4 . KKR shall cause the representative nominated by it to the Company's board of directors pursuant to Section 5.5(a) of the Note
Resignation of KKR Board Designee
Purchase Agreement, Mr. Scott Nuttall, to resign from the Company's board of directors with effect upon consummation of the Closing.
                    5.5 . At the request of the Company, KKR hereby waives compliance by the Company with the covenants set forth in Section 5.7 of the Note Purchase Agreement solely for purposes of incurring any indebtedness to raise all or a portion of the capital contemplated by Section 6.2(g) of this Agreement. The waiver granted pursuant to this Section 5.5 shall expire upon termination of this Agreement. The waiver granted pursuant to this Section 5.5 shall be limited precisely as written, and shall not extend to any failure by the Company to comply with any other covenant in the Note Purchase Agreement or to any failure to comply with Section 5.7 of the Note Purchase Agreement after termination of this Agreement (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any failure to comply with Section 5.7 of the Note Purchase Agreement that would exist as of the termination of this Agreement but for the waiver in this Section 5.5).
Waiver of Certain Covenants
                    5.6 . Each party agrees to cooperate with each other and their respective officers, employees, attorneys, accountants and other agents, and, generally, do such other reasonable acts and things in good faith as may be necessary to effectuate the intents and purposes of this Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions hereof and compliance with applicable Law, including taking reasonable action to facilitate the filing of any document or the taking of reasonable action to assist the other parties hereto in complying with the terms hereof.
Further Assurances
                    5.7 . If after the date hereof and before the consummation of the Closing the Conversion Rate of the Notes is adjusted or the Notes become convertible into Applicable Consideration, the terms of the Warrants issued on the Closing Date shall be adjusted pursuant to the terms of the Warrant Agreement as if the Warrants had been issued on the date hereof.
Pre-Closing Adjustments to Terms of Warrants
                    5.8 . Each party agrees that the Termination shall occur automatically upon consummation of the Closing.
Termination
                    5.9 . Each Holder agrees that, from the date hereof until the Closing Date, it will not amend the applicable Swap Unwind Agreement to which it is a party by (i) adding any material conditions to the occurrence of a Full Early Settlement Date (as defined in the Swap Unwind Agreement) or (ii) postponing the Full Early Settlement Date to a date later than the Closing Date or terminating the Swap Unwind Agreement without the prior consent of the Company (other than if the Note Exchange Agreement is terminated).
Swap Unwind Agreements
          6. .
Conditions Precedent
                    6.1 . The several obligations of each Holder to consummate the transactions to be consummated at the Closing are subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions to the Obligation of the Holders to Consummate the Closing
                    6.2 . The obligation of the Company to consummate the transactions to be consummated at the Closing is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions to the Obligation of the Company to Consummate the Closing
          7. .
Termination of this Agreement
                    7.1 .
Termination
                    7.2 . In the event of any termination pursuant to Section 7.1(a) or 7.1(c)(i) hereof, this Agreement shall become null and void and have no effect, with no liability on the part of the Company, KKR or the Holders, or their directors, officers, agents or stockholders, with respect to this Agreement, except for liability for any willful breach of this Agreement. In the event of any termination by any Terminating Holder pursuant to Section 7.1(b) hereof, (i) such Terminating Holder shall have no further obligations hereunder, (ii) the KKR Holder shall have no further obligations hereunder with respect to the KKR Holder's Notes that are subject to any Lien granted by the KKR Holder pursuant to the security agreement and account control agreement relating to the KKR Swap Agreement with such Terminating Holder (such Notes, the ""), and (iii) the other parties hereto shall have no further obligations hereunder to the KKR Holder with respect to the Affected KKR Notes.
Effect of Termination
Affected KKR Notes
          8. .
Miscellaneous Provisions
                    8.1 . None of the Company, KKR or any Holder shall make any public announcement with respect to the existence or terms of this Agreement or the transactions provided for herein without the prior approval of the Company for an announcement by KKR or the Holders, or KKR for an announcement by the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 8.1 shall prevent (a) any party from making any public announcement it considers necessary in order to satisfy its obligations under the law or under the rules of any national securities exchange, (b) the Company (i) from making any statements regarding the transactions contemplated herein that it deems necessary or desirable in connection with the financings referred to in Section 6.2(g) or (ii) from making any statements or responding to any questions from analysts or investors with respect to the existence or terms of this Agreement or the transaction provided for herein, that any such statement or response does not contain any information that was not previously publicly announced (x) by the Company pursuant to clauses (a) or (b)(i) above or (y) by KKR or any Holder, or (c) KKR from making any statements or responding to any questions from analysts or investors with respect to the existence or terms of this Agreement or the transactions provided for herein; that any such statement or response does not contain any information that was not previously publicly announced (x) by KKR or a Holder pursuant to clause (a) above or (y) by the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may (i) issue the Transaction Press Release and (ii) file with the SEC a current report on Form 8-K relating to the transactions contemplated hereby within the time frame required by the applicable rules of the SEC.
Public Statements or Releases
provided
provided
                    8.2 . The words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement will refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and section and subsection references are to this Agreement unless otherwise specified. The headings in this Agreement are included for convenience of reference only and will not limit or otherwise affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they will be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." The phrases
Interpretation
"the date of this Agreement," "the date hereof" and terms of similar import, unless the context otherwise requires, will be deemed to refer to the date set forth in the first paragraph of this Agreement. The meanings given to terms defined herein will be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of such terms. Unless expressly provided otherwise, references to agreements, policies, standards, guidelines or instruments, or to statutes or regulations, are to such agreements, policies, standards, guidelines or instruments, or statutes or regulations, as amended or supplemented from time to time (or to successors thereto).
                    8.3 . Any notices or other communications required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to be given when delivered in person or by private courier with receipt, if telefaxed when verbal or email confirmation from the recipient is received, or three (3) days after being deposited in the United States mail, first-class, registered or certified, return receipt requested, with postage paid and,
Notices
Any Person may change the address to which notices and communications to it are to be addressed by notification as provided for herein.
                    8.4 . If any part or provision of this Agreement is held unenforceable or in conflict with the applicable laws or regulations of any jurisdiction, the invalid or unenforceable part or provisions shall be replaced with a provision which accomplishes, to the extent possible, the original business purpose of such part or provision in a valid and enforceable manner, and the remainder of this Agreement shall remain binding upon the parties hereto.
Severability
                    8.5 .
Governing Law
                    8.6 . No waiver of any term, provision or condition of this Agreement, whether by conduct or otherwise, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed to be, or be construed as, a further or continuing waiver of any such term, provision or condition or as a waiver of any other term, provision or condition of this Agreement.
Waiver
                    8.7 . None of the parties may assign its rights or obligations under this Agreement or designate another person to perform all or part of its obligations under this Agreement.
Assignment
                    8.8 . This Agreement does not create any rights, claims or benefits inuring to any Person that is not a party hereto nor create or establish any third party beneficiary hereto, except the Company agrees that the KKR Holder shall be a beneficiary of all representations, warranties and agreements made by the Company to or with any Other Holder hereunder.
Third Parties
                    8.9 . This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one instrument.
Counterparts
                    8.10 . This Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto respecting the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements, negotiations, understandings, representations and statements respecting the subject matter hereof, whether written or oral. No modification, alteration, waiver or change in any of the terms of this Agreement shall be valid or binding upon the parties hereto unless made in writing and duly executed by the parties hereto.
Entire Agreement; Amendments
                    8.11 . The representations and warranties contained in this Agreement shall terminate upon the first to occur of the Closing or the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 7 hereof.
Survival
                    8.12 . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) KKR, each of its officers, employees, partners and Affiliates and partners and members of its Affiliates (each a ""), may engage in or possess any interest in other investments, business ventures or Persons of any nature or description, independently or with
Other KKR Activities
Covered Person
others, similar or dissimilar to, or that competes with, the investments or business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and may provide advice and other assistance to any such investment, business venture or Person, (ii) the Company and its Affiliates shall have no rights by virtue of this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, the Warrant Agreement or the Warrants in and to such investments, business ventures or Persons or the income or profits derived therefrom, and (iii) the pursuit of any such investment or venture, even if competitive with the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, shall not be deemed wrongful or improper. No Covered Person shall be obligated to present any particular investment or business opportunity to the Company even if such opportunity is of a character that, if presented to the Company, could be pursued by the Company, or any of its officers, employees, partners or Affiliates or partners or members of its Affiliates and KKR and each other Covered Person shall have the right to pursue for its own account (individually or as a partner or a fiduciary) or to recommend to any other Person any such investment opportunity.
                    8.13 . The Company agrees to hold harmless and indemnify each Holder and such Holder's Affiliates and any officer, director, partner, employee, agent or member of such Holder or such Holder's Affiliates and any Person controlling such Holder or such Holder's Affiliates (collectively, the "") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses (each a "" and collectively, the "") whatsoever (including reasonable expenses incurred in preparing or defending against any litigation or proceeding, commenced or threatened, or any claims whatsoever whether or not resulting in any liability) imposed on or incurred by any Indemnified Person, to the extent that such Loss results from any claim or cause of action brought by or on behalf of a Company stockholder (i) alleging that the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement breaches the fiduciary duties of the Company's directors, or that any Indemnified Person induced any such breach of fiduciary duty or was an aider and abettor or conspirator or otherwise responsible therefor; or (ii) solely to the extent that such claim or cause of action relates to the transactions contemplated in this Agreement, because such Holder holds any Securities of the Company, that the foregoing indemnity as to any Indemnified Person shall not extend to any Loss resulting from or arising out of or which would not have occurred but for one or more of the following: (1) any representation or warranty by such Indemnified Person in this Agreement being incorrect in any material respect; (2) the failure by such Indemnified Person to perform or observe any agreement, covenant or condition in this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement or the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement (except to the extent such failure was caused directly by the failure of the Company to perform any obligation under this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, the Warrant Agreement or the Warrants); or (3) the willful misconduct or the gross negligence of such Indemnified Person (or any of its Affiliates), other than any Loss arising out of or resulting from actions performed at the request of, with the consent of, or in conformity with actions taken or omitted to be taken by, the Company. The Company shall make payments under this indemnity as Losses are incurred by the Indemnified Persons, subject to the obligation of an Indemnified Party to reimburse the Company for payments made in respect of Losses of an Indemnified Person that a court of competent jurisdiction decides in a final non-appealable judgment are not available to the Indemnified Person under this Section 8.13.
Indemnity for the Holders
Indemnified Persons
Loss
Losses
provided
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties herto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
Schedule I
EXHIBIT A
          WARRANT AGREEMENT, dated as of [             ], 20[  ] (this ""), between LEGG MASON, INC., a Maryland corporation (including any successor thereto, the ""), and AMERICAN STOCK TRANSFER & TRUST COMPANY, LLC, a New York limited liability trust company, as Warrant Agent (including any successor thereto, the "").
Agreement
Company
Warrant Agent
          WHEREAS, pursuant to a Note Exchange Agreement dated as of [             ], 20[ ] among the Company, KKR I-L Limited (the ""), Credit Suisse International, HSBC Bank USA, National Association and, for limited purposes, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (the ""), the Company is repurchasing $1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (the "");
KKR Holder
Note Exchange Agreement
Notes
          WHEREAS, in consideration of the repurchase of the Notes, the Termination (as defined in the Note Exchange Agreement) and the amendment of certain agreements that were entered into when the Notes were issued, the Company desires to issue to the KKR Holder, Citibank, N.A., Credit Suisse International and HSBC Bank USA, National Association (collectively, the "") 14,204,545 warrants (the " ") to purchase shares of Common Stock (as defined below);
Initial Holders
Warrants
          WHEREAS, in connection with the issuance of the Warrants to the KKR Holder pursuant to the Note Exchange Agreement, the Company and the KKR Holder are entering into a Registration Rights Agreement dated as of [             ], 20[ ]; and
          WHEREAS, the Company desires the Warrant Agent to act on behalf of the Company in connection with the issuance, registration, transfer, exchange, exercise and cancellation of the Warrants as provided herein, and the Warrant Agent is willing to so act.
          Each party agrees for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the registered holders of the Warrants (the ""):
Holders
          Section 1.01. .
Definitions
          "" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. For the purposes of this definition, "" when used with respect to any Person means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "", "" and "" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
control
controlling
controlled by
under common control with
          "" means the Board of Directors of the Company or any committee thereof duly authorized to act on behalf of such Board.
Board of Directors
          "" means each day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions are not required to be open in the State of New York.
Business Day
          "" of any Person means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of such Person, including any Preferred Stock of such Person, but excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity.
Capital Stock
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Note Exchange Agreement.
Closing Date
          "" of any share of Common Stock or any other publicly-traded equity security on any Trading Day means the closing sale price of such security (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the closing bid and closing ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average closing bid and the average closing ask prices) on such date as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the shares of Common Stock or other security are traded. If the shares of Common Stock or other security are not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the "Closing Sale Price" shall be determined by a nationally recognized securities dealer retained by the Company for that purpose. The "Closing Sale Price" shall be determined without reference to extended or after hours trading.
Closing Sale Price
          "" means shares of the class designated as common stock of the Company at the date of this Warrant Agreement (namely, common stock, par value $0.10) or shares of any class or classes resulting from any reclassification or reclassifications thereof and which have no preference in respect of dividends or of amounts payable in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
Common Stock
          "" means for each Warrant, for each of the 20 Trading Days during the Observation Period, to the extent the Exercise Value exceeds the Exercise Price, an amount of cash equal to 1/20th of such excess.
Daily Cash Amount
          "" means for each Warrant, for each of the 20 Trading Days during the Observation Period, to the extent the Exercise Value exceeds the Exercise Price on such Trading Day, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to 1/20th of (A) such excess, (B) the VWAP of the Common Stock for such Trading Day.
Daily Share Amount
divided by
          "" means any certificated Warrant in registered form that is not deposited with the Depository or with the Warrant Agent as the Warrant Custodian.
Definitive Warrant
          "" means The Depository Trust Company, its nominees and their respective successors.
Depository
          "" means, for any Trading Day during the Observation Period, (i) the Number of Warrant Shares as of such Trading Day, (ii) the VWAP of the Common Stock (or any publicly-traded equity securities into which the Common Stock has been converted in connection with any Reorganization) on such Trading Day. For the purposes of determining the Exercise Value of any Reference Property, the following provisions shall apply:
Exercise Value
multiplied by
          (a) if the Reference Property includes publicly-traded equity securities for which the price can be determined as contemplated by the definition of "VWAP," then the value of such securities shall be determined in accordance with such definition;
          (b) if the Reference Property includes cash, then the value of such cash shall be the amount thereof; and
          (c) if the Reference Property includes any other property, then the value of such property shall be the Fair Market Value of such property as determined by the Board of Directors in good faith.
          "" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as they may be amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
          "" means, for any issuance or distribution, the first date on which the shares of Common Stock trade regular way on the relevant exchange or in the relevant market from which the Closing Sale Price was obtained without the right to receive such issuance or distribution.
Ex-Date
          "" means the amount which a willing buyer would pay a willing seller in an arm's-length transaction.
Fair Market Value
          "" means, with respect to any Person, all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money.
Indebtedness
          "" means $0.24 per share of Common Stock.
Initial Dividend Threshold
          "" means the date on which the Warrants are initially issued.
Issue Date
          "" means the occurrence of any of the following after the Closing Date:
Make Whole Event
          (a) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" becomes the "beneficial owner" (as these terms are defined in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's Capital Stock that is at the time entitled to vote by the holder thereof in the election of the Board of Directors (or comparable body); or
          (b) any transaction or event or any series of transactions or events (whether by means of an exchange offer, liquidation, tender offer, consolidation, merger, combination, reclassification, recapitalization, asset sale, lease of assets or otherwise) in connection with which all or substantially all of the Common Stock is exchanged for, converted into, acquired for or constitutes solely the right to receive stock, other securities or other property, assets or cash, other than any merger primarily for the purpose of changing the Company's jurisdiction of incorporation and resulting in a reclassification, conversion or exchange of outstanding shares of Common Stock solely into shares of common stock of the surviving entity; or
          (c) the termination of trading of the Common Stock, which will be deemed to have occurred if, for 30 consecutive Trading Days, the Common Stock or other common stock into which the Warrants are exercisable is not listed for trading on a U.S. national securities exchange or approved for quotation and trading on a national automated inter-dealer quotation system.
          However, a "Make Whole Event" will be deemed not to have occurred if at least 90% of the consideration in the transaction or transactions (other than cash payments for fractional shares and cash payments made in respect of dissenters' appraisal rights) which otherwise would constitute a "Make Whole Event" under clause (b) above consists of shares of common stock traded or to be traded immediately following such transaction on a U.S. national securities exchange or national automated inter-dealer quotation system and, as a result of the transaction or transactions, the Warrants become exercisable for such common stock and other consideration, subject to the provisions set forth in Section 4.03.
          "" means, for any Scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock (i) a failure by the primary United States national or regional securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading to open for trading during its regular trading session on such Scheduled Trading Day, or (ii) the occurrence or existence for more than a one-half-hour period in the aggregate on such Scheduled Trading Day of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the relevant stock exchange or otherwise) in the Common Stock or in any options, contracts or futures contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m., New York time, on such Scheduled Trading Day.
Market Disruption Event
          "" per Warrant means one share of Common Stock, subject to adjustment pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Number of Warrant Shares
          "" means the 20 consecutive Trading Day period beginning on the third Scheduled Trading Day following the related Exercise Date.
Observation Period
          "" means the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Officer
          "" means a certificate signed by an Officer.
Officers' Certificate
          "" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated association or organization, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
Person
          "," as applied to the Capital Stock of any Person, means Capital Stock of any class or classes (however designated) that is preferred as to the payment of dividends, or as to the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation or dissolution of such Person, over shares of Capital Stock of any other class of such Person.
Preferred Stock
          "" means a day that is scheduled to be a Trading Day on the primary U.S. national or regional securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, on
Scheduled Trading Day
the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded or, if the Common Stock is not so traded, a Business Day.
          "" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
          "" means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as they may be amended from time to time.
Securities Act
          "" means, with respect to any exercise of Warrants, Net Share Settlement or Cash Settlement, as elected (or deemed to have been elected) by the Company.
Settlement Method
          "" of any Person means any corporation, association, partnership or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock or other interests (including partnership interests) entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by (i) such Person, (ii) such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person or (iii) one or more Subsidiaries of such Person.
Subsidiary
          "" means a day during which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded, is open for trading. If the Common Stock (or other security for which a Closing Sale Price must be determined) is not listed or traded, "Trading Day" means a "Business Day."
Trading Day
          "" per share of the Common Stock on any Trading Day means the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg page LM.N <Equity> VWAP (or any successor thereto) in respect of the period from the scheduled open of trading until the scheduled close of trading of the primary trading session on such Trading Day or, with respect to any other publicly-traded equity security, "VWAP" per share of such publicly-traded equity security on any Trading Day means the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed on Bloomberg (or any successor service) in respect of the period from the scheduled open of trading until the scheduled close of trading of the primary trading session on such Trading Day (or, in either case, if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market value per share of Common Stock or such publicly-traded equity security on such Trading Day, as determined by a nationally recognized investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company using a volume-weighted method).
VWAP
          "" means any Global Warrant or Definitive Warrant issued by the Company under this Agreement.
Warrant Certificate
          "" means the custodian with respect to a Global Warrant (as appointed by the Depository) or any successor Person thereto.
Warrant Custodian
          Section 1.02. .
Other Definitions
          Section 1.03. . Unless the text or context otherwise requires:
Rules of Construction
          Section 2.01. .
Issuance and Registration
                    (a) . The Warrants shall be represented by one or more permanent Global Warrants, in fully registered form with the global securities legend set forth in Exhibit A hereto (each, a "").Any such Global Warrant shall be deposited on behalf of the relevant Holders with the Warrant Agent, as custodian for the Depository (or with such other custodian as the Depository may direct), registered in the name of the Depository or a nominee of the Depository, and duly executed by the Company and countersigned by the Warrant Agent as hereinafter provided.
Warrants
Global Warrant
                    (b) . Holders of Warrants or holders of beneficial interests in any Global Warrant will not be entitled to physical delivery of Definitive Warrants (except as provided in Section 2.05).
Definitive Warrants
                    (c) . This Section 2.01(c) shall apply only to any Global Warrant deposited with or on behalf of the Depository.
Procedures for Global Warrants
          Section 2.02. . At least one Officer shall sign the Warrant Certificates for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
Warrant Certificates
                    (a) If an Officer whose signature is on a Warrant Certificate no longer holds that office at the time the Warrant Agent countersigns the Warrant Certificate, the Warrants evidenced by such Warrant Certificate shall be valid nevertheless.
                    (b) The Warrants shall not be valid until countersigned by the Warrant Agent and registered on the Warrant Register.
          Section 2.03. . The Warrants shall be issued in registered form only. The Warrant Agent shall keep a register (the "") of the Warrants (and Warrant Certificates) and of their transfer and exchange. The Warrant Register shall show the names and addresses of the respective Holders and the date and number of Warrants owned by such Holders (as evidenced on the face of each of the Warrant Certificates). The Holder of any Global Warrant will be the Depository or a nominee in whose name the Global Warrant is registered.
Warrant Register
Warrant Register
                    The Company and the Warrant Agent may deem and treat the Person in whose name Warrants are registered in the Warrant Register as the absolute owner of such Warrants for all purposes and regardless of any notice to the contrary.
          Section 2.04. .
Transfer and Exchange
                    (a) .
Transfer and Exchange of Warrants
                     (b) . At such time as all beneficial interests in a Global Warrant have been exchanged for Definitive Warrants, exercised, repurchased or canceled, such Global Warrant shall be returned by the Warrant Agent to the Depository for cancellation or retained and canceled by the Warrant Agent. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Warrant is exchanged for Definitive Warrants, exercised, repurchased or canceled, the number of Warrants represented by such Global Warrant shall be reduced and an adjustment shall be made on the books and records of the Warrant Agent (if it is then the Warrant Custodian for such Global Warrant) with respect to such Global Warrant, by the Warrant Agent, to reflect such reduction.
Cancellation or Adjustment of Global Warrant
                     (c) Every Warrant that bears or is required under this Section 2.04(c) to bear the legend set forth in this Section 2.04(c) (together with any Common Stock issued upon exercise of the Warrants and required to bear the legend set forth in Section 2.04(d), collectively, the "") shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth in this Section 2.04(c) (including the legend set forth below), unless such restrictions on transfer shall be eliminated or otherwise waived by written consent of the Company, and the Holder of each such Restricted Security, by such Holder's acceptance thereof, agrees to be bound by all such restrictions on transfer. As used in this Section 2.04(c) and Section 2.04(d), the term "" encompasses any sale, pledge, transfer or other disposition whatsoever of any Restricted Security.
Restricted Securities
transfer
          Until the date (the "") that is the later of (1) the date that is one year after the Issue Date, or such shorter period of time as permitted by Rule 144 under the Securities Act or any successor provision thereto, and (2) such later date, if any, as may be required by applicable law, any certificate evidencing such Warrant (and all securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof, other than Common Stock, if any, issued upon exercise thereof which shall bear the legend set forth in Section 2.04(d), if applicable) shall bear a legend in substantially the following form (unless (i) such Warrants have been transferred pursuant to a registration statement that has become or been declared effective under the Securities Act and that continues to be effective at the time of such transfer, or sold pursuant to
Resale Restriction Termination Date
the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144 or any similar provision then in force under the Securities Act, or (ii) otherwise agreed by the Company in writing, with notice thereof to the Warrant Agent):
          THIS SECURITY AND THE COMMON STOCK, IF ANY, ISSUABLE UPON EXERCISE OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE ""), AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER:
SECURITIES ACT
          PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(D) ABOVE, THE COMPANY AND THE WARRANT AGENT RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
          No transfer of any Warrant prior to the Resale Restriction Termination Date will be registered by the Warrant Agent unless the applicable box on the Form of Assignment and Transfer has been checked.
          Any Warrant (or security issued in exchange or substitution therefor) as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms may, upon surrender of such Warrant for exchange to the Warrant Agent in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.04, be exchanged for a new Warrant or Warrants, of like tenor and aggregate number of Warrants, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this Section 2.04(c). The Company shall be entitled to instruct the Warrant Agent in writing to so surrender any Global Warrant as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms for exchange, and, upon such instruction, the Warrant Agent shall so surrender such Global Warrant for exchange; and any new Global Warrant so exchanged therefor shall not bear the restrictive legend specified in this Section 2.04(c) and shall not be assigned a restricted CUSIP number. The Company shall promptly notify the Warrant Agent upon the occurrence of the Resale Restriction Termination Date and promptly after a registration statement, if any, with respect to the Warrants or any Common Stock issued upon exercise of the Warrants has been declared effective under the Securities Act.
          (d) Until the Resale Restriction Termination Date, any stock certificate representing Common Stock issued upon exercise of a Warrant shall bear a legend in substantially the following form (unless (i) such Common Stock has been transferred pursuant to a registration statement that has become or been declared effective under the Securities Act and that continues to be effective at the time of such transfer, or pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144 or any similar provision then in force under the Securities Act, (ii) such Common Stock has been issued upon exercise of Warrants that have been transferred pursuant to a registration statement that has become or been declared effective under the Securities Act and that continues to be effective at the time of such transfer, or pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144 or any similar provision then in force under the Securities Act, or (iii) otherwise agreed by the Company with written notice thereof to the Warrant Agent and any transfer agent for the Common Stock):
          THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE ""), AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER:
SECURITIES ACT
          PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(D) ABOVE, THE COMPANY AND THE TRANSFER AGENT FOR THE COMMON STOCK RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
Any such Common Stock as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms may, upon surrender of the certificates representing such shares of Common Stock for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent for the Common Stock, be exchanged for a new certificate or certificates for a like aggregate number of shares of Common Stock, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this Section 2.04(d).
                    (e) .
Obligations with Respect to Transfers and Exchanges of Warrants
                    (f) . The Warrant Agent shall have no responsibility or obligation to any beneficial owner of a Global Warrant, an Agent Member or other Person with respect to the accuracy of the records of the Depository or its nominee or of any participant or member thereof, with respect to any ownership interest in the Warrants or with respect to the delivery to any participant, member, beneficial owner or other Person (other than the Depository) of any notice, or the payment of any amount, under or with respect to such Warrants. All notices and communications to be given to the Holders and all payments or deliveries to be made to Holders under the Warrants shall be given or made only to or upon the order of the registered Holders (which shall be the Depository or its nominee in the case of a Global Warrant). The rights of beneficial owners in any Global Warrant shall be exercised only through the Depository subject to the applicable rules and procedures of the Depository. The Warrant Agent may rely and shall be fully protected in relying upon information furnished by the Depository with respect to its members, participants and any beneficial owners.
No Obligation of the Warrant Agent
          Section 2.05. .
Definitive Warrants
                    (a) Subject to Section 2.05(e), beneficial interests in a Global Warrant deposited with the Depository or with the Warrant Agent as custodian shall be transferred to the beneficial owners thereof in the form of Definitive Warrants in a number equal to the number of Warrants represented by such Global Warrant, in exchange for such Global Warrant, only if such transfer complies with Section 2.04 and the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as depositary for such Global Warrant or if at any time the Depository ceases to be a "clearing agency" registered under the Exchange Act and, in each such case, a successor depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice.
                    (b) Any Global Warrant that is transferable to the beneficial owners thereof pursuant to this Section 2.05 shall be surrendered by the Depository to the Warrant Agent, to be so transferred, in whole or from time to time in part, without charge, and the Warrant Agent shall countersign, by either manual or facsimile signature, and deliver to each beneficial owner in the name of such beneficial owner, upon such transfer of each portion of such Global Warrant, Definitive Warrants evidencing a number of Warrants equivalent to such beneficial owner's beneficial interest in the Global Warrant. The Warrant Agent shall register such transfer in the Warrant Register, and upon such transfer the surrendered Global Warrant shall be cancelled by the Warrant Agent.
                    (c) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.05(b), the registered Holder of a Global Warrant may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Agreement or the Warrants.
                    (d) In the event of the occurrence of the events specified in Section 2.05(a), the Company will promptly make available to the Warrant Agent a reasonable supply of Definitive Warrants in definitive, fully registered form.
                    (e) The Depository shall notify the Warrant Agent of the names and the amounts in which the Definitive Warrants will be issued. Neither the Company nor the Warrant Agent will be liable or responsible for any names or any amounts provided by the Depository.
                    (f) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in lieu of issuing a Definitive Warrant to any Person, the Warrant Agent may, upon the Company's instruction, register Warrants in the name of such Person through the Company's direct registration system or the Warrant Agent's other book-entry procedures.
          Section 2.06. . If a mutilated Warrant Certificate is surrendered to the Warrant Agent or if the Holder of a Warrant Certificate provides proof reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Warrant Agent that the Warrant Certificate has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Warrant Agent shall countersign a replacement Warrant Certificate of like tenor and representing an equivalent number of Warrants, if the reasonable requirements of the Warrant Agent are met. Such Holder shall furnish an indemnity bond sufficient in the judgment of the Company and the Warrant Agent to protect the Company and the Warrant Agent from any loss that either of them may suffer if a Warrant Certificate is replaced. The Company and the Warrant Agent may charge the Holder for their expenses in replacing a Warrant Certificate. Every replacement Warrant Certificate evidences an additional obligation of the Company.
Replacement Certificates
          Section 2.07. . Warrants outstanding at any time are all Warrants evidenced as outstanding in the Warrant Register (which, in the case of Warrants represented by a Warrant Certificate, shall include all Warrant Certificates authenticated by the Warrant Agent excluding those canceled by it and those delivered to it for cancellation). A Warrant does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Warrant.
Outstanding Warrants
          If a Warrant Certificate is replaced pursuant to Section 2.06, the Warrants evidenced thereby cease to be outstanding unless the Warrant Agent and the Company receive proof satisfactory to them that the replaced Warrant Certificate is held by a bona fide purchaser.
          Any Warrant or Common Stock issued upon the exercise of a Warrant that is repurchased or owned by the Company or any Affiliate thereof may not be resold by the Company or such Affiliate unless registered under the Securities Act or resold pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in a transaction that results in such Warrants or Common Stock, as the case may be, no longer being "restricted securities" (as defined under Rule 144 under the Securities Act).
          Section 2.08. . If the Company shall purchase or otherwise acquire Definitive Warrants, the Company may, at its option, deliver the same to the Warrant Agent for cancellation.
Cancellation
                    The Warrant Agent and no one else shall cancel all Warrant Certificates surrendered for transfer, exchange, replacement, exercise or cancellation. The Company may not issue new Warrant Certificates to replace Warrant Certificates to the extent they evidence Warrants that have been exercised or Warrants that the Company has cancelled.
          Section 2.09. .           The Company may assign "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use) in connection with the issuance of the Warrants and the Warrant Agent may use such "CUSIP" numbers in notices as a convenience to Holders; , that any such notice shall state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Warrant Certificates or as contained in any notice and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Warrant Certificates.
CUSIP Numbers
provided, however
          Section 3.01. . Each Warrant shall entitle the Holder thereof to purchase the Number of Warrant Shares at an exercise price of $[88.00] per share (as such exercise price may be adjusted pursuant to Article IV, the "").
Exercise
1
Exercise Price
          Section 3.02. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Warrants shall be exercisable at any time and from time to time on or after the Issue Date; provided that no Warrant shall be exercisable after 5:00 p.m., New York time, on July 15, 2017 (the "").
Exercise Period
Expiration Date
          Section 3.03. . A Warrant shall terminate and become void as of the earlier of (i) the Expiration Date or (ii) the date such Warrant is exercised or deemed exercised pursuant to Section 3.04(b).
Expiration
          Section 3.04. .
Manner of Exercise
                    (a) Subject to Section 3.02, Warrants may be exercised by a Holder in full or in part by taking the actions described in (i) or (ii) below, as appropriate, not later than 5:00 p.m., New York time, on any Business Day (the "").
Exercise Date
Subject to adjustment prior to consummation of the Closing pursuant to Section 5.7 of the Note Exchange Agreement.
1
                    (b) If either of the Warrant Certificate or the Notice of Exercise is received by the Warrant Agent after 5:00 P.M., New York time, on any Business Day, or, in respect of interests in a Global Warrant, the requirements of exercise set forth in Section 3.04(a)(ii) are not satisfied on or before 5:00 P.M., New York time, on any Business Day, the Warrants will be deemed to be exercised on the Business Day next succeeding the date such conditions to exercise set forth in Section 3.04(a) are met and such next succeeding Business Day shall be deemed to be the Exercise Date with respect to such Warrants. If the date specified as the Exercise Date is not a Business Day, the Warrants will be deemed to be received and exercised on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day. Any Warrants that have not been exercised prior to 5:00 p.m., New York time, on the Expiration Date shall be deemed to be exercised by the Holder thereof immediately prior to such time on the Expiration Date; that, for the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall any cash or shares of Common Stock be due from the Company in connection with the settlement of such Warrants for any Trading Day during the Observation Period for such Warrants if the Exercise Value for such Trading Day is less than or equal to the Exercise Price on such Trading Day.
provided
                    (c) In the case of a Global Warrant, whenever some but not all of the Warrants represented by such Global Warrant are exercised in accordance with the terms thereof and of this Agreement, such Global Warrant shall be surrendered by the Holder to the Warrant Agent, which shall cause an adjustment to be made to such Global Warrant so that the number of Warrants represented thereby will be equal to the number of Warrants theretofore represented by such Global Warrant less the number of Warrants then exercised. The Warrant Agent shall thereafter promptly return such Global Warrant to the Holder or its nominee or custodian.
                    (d) In the case of a Definitive Warrant, whenever some but not all of the Warrants represented by such Definitive Warrant are exercised in accordance with the terms thereof and of this Agreement, the Holder shall be entitled, at the request of the Holder, to receive from the Company within a reasonable time, and in any event not exceeding three (3) Business Days, a new Definitive Warrant in substantially identical form for the number of Warrants equal to the number of Warrants theretofor represented by such Definitive Warrant less the number of Warrants then exercised, without payment of any service charge by the Holder but, if required by the Company or the Warrant Agent, with payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge required by law or that may be imposed in connection therewith as a result of the name of the Holder of the new Definitive Warrant issued upon such exercise being different from the name of the Holder of the old Definitive Warrant surrendered for such exercise.
                    (e) If a Warrant Certificate shall have been exercised in full, the Warrant Agent shall promptly cancel such certificate following its receipt from the Holder or the Depository, as applicable.
                    (f) If Net Share Settlement applies to any Warrant exercised or deemed exercised by a Holder, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on the issue of the shares of Common Stock upon such exercise, unless the tax is due because the Holder requests such shares to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name, in which case the Holder shall pay that tax. The Warrant Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Warrant Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax that is due by such Holder in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence.
          Section 3.05. .
Settlement Upon Exercise of Warrants
                    (a) Upon any exercise of Warrants, (i) if the Company has elected (or is deemed to have elected) to settle such Warrants in shares of Common Stock as set forth in Section 3.05(d) (""), the Company will deliver to the Holder of such Warrants in respect of each Warrant being exercised a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the sum of the Daily Share Amounts for each of the 20 Trading Days during the Observation Period and cash for any fractional shares as described in Section 3.06, and (ii) if the Company has elected to settle such Warrants in cash as set forth in Section 3.05(d) (""), the Company will pay to the Holder of such Warrants in respect of each Warrant being exercised an amount in cash equal to the sum of the Daily Cash Amounts for each of the 20 Trading Days during the Observation Period. Settlement will occur on the third Business Day following the final Trading Day of the Observation Period.
Net Share Settlement
Cash Settlement
                    (b) Subject to Section 3.02, upon any exercise of Warrants in compliance with Section 3.05(a)(i), the Company shall issue and cause the transfer agent for the Common Stock (the "", which may be the Warrant Agent) to cause to be registered in the Company's direct registration system to or upon the written order of the Holder and in such name or names as the Holder may designate, a number of full shares of Common Stock so purchased upon the exercise of such Warrants (determined in accordance with Section 3.01, Section 3.04(a), Section 3.05(a) and Section 3.06) or other securities to which it is entitled, registered or otherwise, to the Person or Persons entitled to receive the same (including any depositary institution so designated by a Holder), together with cash as provided in Section 3.06 in respect of any fractional shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable upon such exercise.
Stock Transfer Agent
                    (c) Subject to Section 3.02, upon any exercise of Warrants in compliance with Section 3.05(a)(ii), the Company shall pay an amount determined in accordance with Section 3.01, Section 3.04(a) and Section 3.05(a) by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the exercising Holder's account within the United States (as such Holder has notified to the Warrant Agent) or, with respect to any Global Warrant, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account of the Depositary or its nominee.
                    (d) The Company may elect the Settlement Method for any Warrants exercised or deemed exercised on any Exercise Date by delivering a notice (the "") of the relevant Settlement Method, through the Warrant Agent, to the Holders of such Warrants no later than the close of business on the Trading Day immediately following the relevant Exercise Date. If the Company does not elect a Settlement Method prior to the deadline
Settlement Notice
set forth in the immediately preceding sentence, the Company shall no longer have the right to elect Cash Settlement and the Company shall be deemed to have elected Net Share Settlement.
          Section 3.06. . The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares of Common Stock on the exercise of Warrants. The number of shares of Common Stock that shall be issuable upon Net Share Settlement of any Warrants exercised or deemed exercised by a Holder at any time shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants being exercised or deemed exercised by that Holder at that time (determined in accordance with Section 3.01, Section 3.04(a) and this Section 3.06). If any fraction of a share of Common Stock would, except for the provisions of this Section 3.06, be issuable upon the exercise of Warrants, the Company shall pay an amount in cash equal to the VWAP of the Common Stock on the last Trading Day of the Observation Period, such fraction, computed to the nearest whole cent.
Fractional Shares
multiplied by
          Section 3.07. .
Warrant Shares
                    (a) The Company shall provide, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued shares or shares held in treasury, sufficient shares of Common Stock to provide for the exercise of all outstanding Warrants, including any Additional Shares.
                    (b) Before taking any action which would cause an adjustment decreasing the Exercise Price to an amount that would cause the Exercise Price to be reduced below the then par value, if any, of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, the Company will take all corporate action that may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue shares of such Common Stock at such adjusted Exercise Price.
                    (c) The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock that may be issued upon exercise of the Warrants will, upon issue, be fully paid and non-assessable by the Company and free from all taxes, liens and charges with respect to the issue thereof, except as set forth in Section 3.04(f); that if any adjustment to the Exercise Price is made and a Holder is deemed to recognize, as provided by applicable law, a distribution from the Company even though such Holder has not received any cash or property as a result of such adjustment, the Company shall be entitled to withhold (to the extent required by law) United States federal income tax, if any, on such deemed distribution from any amounts payable upon exercise of the Warrants.
provided
                    (d) The Company covenants that, if any shares of Common Stock to be provided for the purpose of exercise of Warrants hereunder require registration with or approval of any governmental authority under any federal or state law before such shares may be validly issued upon exercise of Warrants, the Company will in good faith and expeditiously, to the extent then permitted by the rules and interpretations of the SEC (or any successor thereto), endeavor to secure such registration or approval, as the case may be.
                    (e) The Company further covenants that, if at any time the Common Stock shall be listed on The New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or
national automated inter-dealer quotation system, the Company will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated inter-dealer quotation system, list and keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated inter-dealer quotation system, all Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants.
          Section 4.01. . Subject to the provisions of this Article IV (including without limitation Section 4.01(i) and Section 4.05), the Exercise Price shall be subject to adjustment, without duplication, under the following circumstances:
Adjustments
                    (a) in case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Warrants are outstanding, (i) pay a dividend in shares of Common Stock or make a distribution in shares of Common Stock to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock, or (ii) split the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater number of such shares or combine outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of such shares, the Exercise Price will be adjusted based on the following formula:
               An adjustment to the Exercise Price made pursuant to this clause (a) will become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Date or effective date of such dividend, distribution, share split or share combination, as applicable.
               To the extent that a dividend, distribution, share split or share combination of the type described in this Section 4.01(a) is declared but not so paid or made, the Exercise Price shall again be readjusted to the Exercise Price that would then be in effect if such dividend, distribution, share split or share combination had not been declared.
                    (b) in case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Warrants are outstanding, issue rights or warrants (other than rights or warrants referred to in 4.01(c)) to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding Common Stock entitling them, for a period of not more than 45 calendar days from the date of such distribution, to subscribe for or
purchase shares of Common Stock, at a price per share less than the average of the Closing Sale Prices of the Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of announcement of the issuance of such rights or warrants, the Exercise Price will be adjusted based on the following formula:
An adjustment to the Exercise Price made pursuant to this clause (b) will become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Date for such issuance.
To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered after the expiration of such rights or warrants, the Exercise Price will be readjusted to the Exercise Price that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. If such rights or warrants are not so issued, the Exercise Price will be readjusted to be the Exercise Price that would then be in effect if the Ex-Date for such issuance had not occurred.
                    (c) in case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Warrants are outstanding, by dividend or otherwise, distribute shares of Capital Stock of the Company (other than the Common Stock), or evidences of its Indebtedness or other assets or property or rights, or warrants to acquire shares of Capital Stock of the Company or other securities (any of the foregoing, the ""), to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock, excluding (i) dividends or distributions described in clauses (a) or (b) of this Section 4.01, (ii) dividends or distributions paid exclusively in cash, (iii) any dividends and distributions in connection with a Reorganization, and (iv) Spin-Offs to which the provisions set forth below in this clause (c) shall apply, then the Exercise Price will be adjusted based on the following formula:
Distributed Assets
               EP
1
= EP
0
x (SP
0
 FMV) / SP
0
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustment will be made to the Exercise Price under this clause (c) in the event that (i) the Fair Market Value of the Distributed Assets applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than the average Closing Sale Prices of the Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading Day Period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Date for such distribution, or (ii) such average Closing Sale Prices exceeds such Fair Market Value by less than $1.00. In such cases, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment under this clause (c), each Holder of Warrants shall have the right to receive, at the same time as holders of the Common Stock and in addition to the shares of Common Stock (if any) issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, for each Warrant, the kind and amount of Distributed Assets such Holder would have received had such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Number of Warrant Shares immediately prior to the Ex-Date for such distribution.
If the Board of Directors determines the Fair Market Value of any distribution for purposes of this clause (c) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any Distributed Assets comprising all or part of such distribution, it must in doing so consider the prices in such market over the 10 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Date for such distribution (the ""), to the extent possible, unless the Board of Directors determines in good faith that determining the Fair Market Value during the Reference Period would not be appropriate.
Reference Period
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any such dividend or other distribution consists of shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to one or more of the Subsidiaries or other business units of the Company (a ""), the Exercise Price will be adjusted based on the following formula:
Spin-Off
The adjustment to the Exercise Price under this clause (c) in respect of a Spin-Off will occur on the last day of the Valuation Period; that in respect of any Warrants exercised during the Valuation Period, references with respect to 10 Trading Days shall be deemed replaced with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed between the effective date of such Spin-Off and the Exercise Date for such Warrants in determining the applicable Exercise Price.
provided
To the extent that such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Exercise Price will be readjusted to the Exercise Price that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
For purposes of this clause (c) and clauses (a) and (b) of this Section 4.01, any dividend or distribution to which this clause (c) is applicable that also includes shares of Common Stock, or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (A) a dividend or distribution of the evidences of Indebtedness, assets or shares of Capital Stock other than such shares of Common Stock or rights or warrants (and any adjustment to the Exercise Price required by this clause (c) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by (B) a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights or warrants (and any further adjustment to the Exercise Price required by clauses (a) or (b) of this Section 4.01 with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made), except the Ex-Date for such dividend or distribution shall be substituted for "the Ex-Date for such dividend or other distribution" within the meaning of clause (a) of this Section 4.01 and the "Ex-Date for such issuance" within the meaning of clause (b) of this Section 4.01, and any shares of Common Stock included in such dividend or distribution shall not be deemed "outstanding immediately prior to the opening of business on the Ex-Date for such dividend or distribution" within the meaning of clause (a) of this Section 4.01.
                    (d) in case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Warrants are outstanding, by dividend or otherwise, make a distribution consisting exclusively of cash to all or substantially all holders of the outstanding Common Stock, other than (i) regular quarterly cash dividends (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors) that do not exceed the Initial Dividend Threshold, and (ii) dividends or distributions made in connection with the Company's liquidation, dissolution or winding-up or upon a merger or consolidation, the Exercise Price will be adjusted based on the following formula:
               EP
1
= EP
0
x (SP
0
 C) / SP
0
               where,
Whenever the Exercise Price is adjusted, the Initial Dividend Threshold shall be adjusted by multiplying the Initial Dividend Threshold then in effect by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Exercise Price prior to adjustment and the denominator of which is the Exercise Price following such adjustment.
An adjustment to the Exercise Price made pursuant to this clause (d) will become effective on the Ex-Date for such dividend or distribution. To the extent that such distribution is not so paid or made, the Exercise Price will be readjusted to the Exercise Price that would then be in effect if such distribution had not been declared.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustment will be made to the Exercise Price under this clause (d) in the event that (i) the portion of the cash so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Date for such distribution, or (ii) such Closing Sale Price exceeds the amount of such distribution by less than $1.00. In such cases, in lieu of the adjustment under this clause (d), each Holder of Warrants shall have the right to receive, at the same time as holders of the Common Stock and in addition to the shares of Common Stock (if any) issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, for each Warrant the amount of cash such Holder would have received had such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Number of Warrant Shares immediately prior to the Ex-Date for such distribution
                    (e) In case the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company makes, at any time or from time to time while any of the Warrants are outstanding, a payment in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer for the Common Stock, to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer, the Exercise Price will be decreased based on the following formula:
               EP
1
= EP
0
x (SP
1
x OS) / (AC + (SP
0
1
x OS))
1
               where,
The adjustment to the Exercise Price pursuant to this clause (e) will become effective at the close of business on the Trading Day next succeeding the date such tender or exchange offer expires.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustment will be made to the Exercise Price under this clause (e) as a result of a tender offer solely to holders of fewer than 100 shares of the Common Stock.
                    (f) Except as stated herein, the Company will not adjust the Exercise Price for the issuance of shares of the Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of the Common Stock or the right to purchase shares of the Common Stock or such convertible or exchangeable securities. If, however, the application of the foregoing formulas would result in an increase in the Exercise Price, no adjustment to the Exercise Price will be made (other than as a result of a share combination).
                    (g) To the extent permitted by law, the Company may in its sole discretion make such decreases in the Exercise Price, in addition to those required by clauses (a) to (e) of this Section 4.01, as the Board of Directors considers to be advisable to avoid or diminish any United States federal income tax to holders of Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock (or rights to acquire stock) or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes.
                    (h) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Company from time to time may decrease the Exercise Price by any amount for any period of time, if the Board of Directors shall have made a determination that such decrease would be in the best interests of the Company, which determination shall be conclusive. Whenever the Exercise Price is decreased under this clause (h) or clause (g), the Company shall mail to Holders of record of the Warrants a notice of the decrease, which notice will be given at least 15 days prior to the effectiveness of any such decrease, and such notice shall state the decreased Exercise Price and the period during which it will be in effect.
                    (i) No adjustment in the Exercise Price shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% in such Exercise Price; that any adjustments that by reason of this clause (i) are not required to be made shall be carried
provided
forward and the Company shall take such carried-forward adjustments into account in an
y subsequent adjustment and make such carry forward adjustments, regardless of whether the aggregate adjustment is less than 1% on each Trading Day of any Observation Period.
                    (j) All calculations under this Section 4.01 shall be made by the Company (and the Company shall inform the Warrant Agent of any such calculations) and shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest one-ten thousandth (1/10,000) of a share, as the case may be.
                    (k) Whenever the Exercise Price is adjusted as herein provided, the Company will provide notice to Holders of such adjustment either (i) by written notice to Holders in the manner provided in Section 6.04, (ii) by electronic communication to Holders, or (iii) by issuing a press release through Business Wire containing the relevant information and making such information available on the Company's website or through another public medium as the Company may use at that time. In addition, the Company shall promptly file with the Warrant Agent an Officers' Certificate setting forth the Exercise Price after such adjustment and setting forth a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment. Unless and until an officer of the Warrant Agent shall have received such Officers' Certificate, the Warrant Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment of the Exercise Price and may assume that the last Exercise Price of which it has actual knowledge is still in effect. Promptly after delivery of such certificate, the Company shall prepare a notice of such adjustment of the Exercise Price setting forth the adjusted Exercise Price and the date on which each adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of the Exercise Price to the Holder of each Warrant at its last address appearing on the Warrant Register, within 20 calendar days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of any such adjustment.
                    (l) In any case in which this Section 4.01 provides that an adjustment shall become effective (i) upon the opening of business on an Ex-Date, or (ii) at the close of business on a day after the date a tender or exchange offer expires (each a ""), the Company may elect to defer, until the occurrence of the applicable distribution, issuance of Common Stock or payment (an "") triggering an adjustment to the Exercise Price (A) issuing to the Holder of any Warrants exercised after such Determination Date and before the occurrence of such Adjustment Event, the additional shares of Common Stock, if any, or other securities or property issuable upon such exercise by reason of the adjustment required by such Adjustment Event over and above the Common Stock issuable upon such exercise before giving effect to such adjustment and (B) paying to such Holder any amount in cash in lieu of any fractional share.
Determination Date
Adjustment Event
                    (m) For purposes of this Section 4.01, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.
                    (n) No adjustment to the Exercise Price shall be made pursuant to Section 4.01 on account of a distribution on Common Stock, if the Holders of the Warrants will otherwise participate for each Warrant in such distribution without exercise of such Warrant as a
result of holding the Warrants at the same time and on the same terms as a holder of a Number of Warrant Shares.
                    (o) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustment to the Exercise Price need be made for:
                    Interest will not accrue on any cash into which the Warrants are convertible.
                    (p) No adjustment need be made for rights to purchase Common Stock pursuant to a Company plan for reinvestment of dividends or interest or for any issuance of Common Stock or convertible or exchangeable securities or rights to purchase Common Stock or convertible or exchangeable securities.
                    (q) Notwithstanding this Section 4.01 and the other provisions of Article IV, if any adjustment to the Exercise Price becomes effective, or any Ex-Date (relating to a required adjustment to the Exercise Price) occurs, during the period beginning on an Exercise Date and ending on the close of business on the last Trading Day of the corresponding Observation Period, the Board of Directors may make such adjustments to the Exercise Price, the VWAP of the Common Stock or the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, as may be necessary or appropriate to effect the intent of this Section 4.01 and the other provisions of Article IV and to avoid unjust or inequitable results, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors. Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (q) shall apply in lieu of the adjustment or other term that would otherwise be applicable.
          Section 4.02. . Upon each adjustment of the Exercise Price pursuant to Section 4.01, the Number of Warrant Shares shall be adjusted by multiplying the Number of Warrant Shares immediately prior to such adjustment by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to such adjustment and the denominator of which is the Exercise Price as so adjusted and rounding the result to the nearest 1/10,000 of a share.
Adjustment to Number of Warrant Shares
th
          Section 4.03. .
Reorganizations
                    (a) In the case of:
          Section 4.04. .
Adjustment to Number of Warrant Shares upon a Make-Whole Event
                    (a) If and only to the extent a Holder elects to exercise Warrants at any time following the effective date of a Make Whole Event (the "") but before 5:00 p.m., New York time, on the Make Whole Termination Date, the Number of Warrant Shares applicable to such exercised Warrants will be increased by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the ""). The number of Additional Shares of Common Stock shall be determined as set forth in clause (b) of this Section 4.04, based on the Effective Date and the price (the "") paid per share for the Common Stock in such Make Whole Event. If holders of the Common Stock receive only cash in such Make Whole Event, the "Stock Price" shall be the cash amount paid per share. Otherwise, the "Stock Price" shall be the average of the Closing Sale Prices of the Common Stock on the five Trading Days prior to, but not including, the Effective Date of such Make Whole Event.
Effective Date
Additional Shares
Stock Price
                    (b) The number of Additional Shares per Warrant by which the Number of Warrant Shares shall be increased for exercises of Warrants in connection with a Make Whole
Event pursuant to clause (a) of this Section 4.04 will be as set forth in the following table, based on the Effective Date and the Stock Price for the Make Whole Event:
          If the Stock Price or Effective Date for a Make Whole Event are not set forth in the table above, then:
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will the Number of Warrant Shares, as increased by the number of Additional Shares determined pursuant to this clause (b), exceed 1.1309 shares per Warrant, such number of shares being subject to adjustment in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Exercise Price.
                    (c) The numbers of Additional Shares of Common Stock set forth in the table in clause (b) of this Section 4.04 shall be adjusted, as of any date on which the Exercise Price is adjusted, in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Exercise Price. The Stock Prices set forth in the table in clause (b) of this Section 4.04 and the prices per share set forth in Section 4.04(b)(ii) and (iii) shall be adjusted, as of any date on which the Exercise Price is
adjusted, to equal the Stock Price or price per share applicable immediately prior to such adjustment,a fraction of which:
multiplied by
                    (d) The Company shall provide written notice to all Holders of the anticipated Effective Date of any Make Whole Event that the Company knows, or reasonably should know, will occur at least 15 calendar days prior to such anticipated Effective Date.
                    (e) The Company shall provide written notice to all Holders of record as of the Effective Date of the Make Whole Event at their addresses shown in the Warrant Register (and to beneficial owners to the extent required by applicable law) of the occurrence of such Make Whole Event, the resulting adjustment to the Number of Warrant Shares and the last date on which Holders may exercise their Warrants in connection with such Make Whole Event (the ""), which shall be a date that is not less than 20 nor more than 35 calendar days after the date of the notice under this clause (e).
Make Whole Termination Date
          Section 4.05. . To the extent that the Company has a rights plan in effect upon exercise of the Warrants, each share of Common Stock issued upon such exercise shall be entitled to receive the appropriate number of rights, if any, and the certificates representing the Common Stock issued upon such exercise shall bear such legends, if any, in each case as may be provided by the terms of any such stockholder rights plan, as the same may be amended from time to time. If at the time of exercise, however, the rights have separated from the shares of Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of the applicable stockholder rights plan so that the Holders would not be entitled to receive any rights in respect of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, the Exercise Price shall be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company distributed to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock shares of Capital Stock of the Company, evidences of its Indebtedness, other assets or property or rights, options or warrants to acquire its Capital Stock or other securities as provided in Section 4.01(c), subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights.
Stockholder Rights Plans
          Section 4.06. . The form of Warrant Certificate need not be changed because of any adjustment made pursuant to this Article IV, and Warrant Certificates issued after such adjustment may state the same Exercise Price and the same number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants as are stated in any Warrant Certificates issued prior to such adjustment. The Company, however, may at any time in its sole discretion make any change in the form of Warrant Certificate that it may deem appropriate to give effect to such adjustments and that does not affect the substance of the Warrant Certificate, and any Warrant Certificate thereafter issued or countersigned, whether in exchange or substitution for an outstanding Warrant Certificate or otherwise, may be in the form as so changed.
Adjustment to Warrant Certificate
          Section 5.01. . The Company hereby appoints the Warrant Agent to act as agent for the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Warrant Agent hereby accepts such appointment.
Appointment of Warrant Agent
          Section 5.02. .
Rights and Duties of Warrant Agent
                    (a) . In acting under this Warrant Agreement and in connection with the Warrant Certificates, the Warrant Agent is acting solely as agent of the Company and does not assume any obligation or relationship or agency or trust for or with any of the holders of Warrant Certificates or beneficial owners of Warrants. All fees and expenses due the Warrant Agent shall be paid to the Warrant Agent by the Company. The Warrant Agent shall have no duty to determine which costs, if any, under this Agreement shall be borne by the Holders or by the Company.
Agent for the Company
                    (b) . The Warrant Agent may consult with counsel satisfactory to it, and the advice of such counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with the advice of such counsel.
Counsel
                    (c) . The Warrant Agent shall be protected and shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken by it in reliance upon any Warrant Certificate, notice, direction, consent, certificate, affidavit, statement or other paper or document reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been presented or signed by the proper parties.
Documents
                    (d) . The Warrant Agent shall be obligated to perform only such duties as are specifically set forth herein and in the Warrant Certificates, and no implied duties or obligations of the Warrant Agent shall be read into this Agreement or the Warrant Certificates against the Warrant Agent. The Warrant Agent shall not be under any obligation to take any action hereunder that may tend to involve it in any expense or liability for which it does not receive indemnity if such indemnity is reasonably requested. The Warrant Agent shall have no duty or responsibility in case of any default by the Company in the performance of its covenants or agreements contained herein or in the Warrant Certificates or in the case of the receipt of any written demand from a Holder with respect to such default, including any duty or responsibility to initiate or attempt to initiate any proceedings at law or otherwise.
No Implied Obligations
                    (e) . The Warrant Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder to determine whether any facts exist that may require an adjustment of the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of each Warrant or the Exercise Price, or with respect to the nature or extent of any adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed, or herein or in any supplemental agreement provided to be employed, in making the same. The Warrant Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value of any shares of Common Stock or
Not Responsible for Adjustments or Validity of Stock
of any securities or property which may at any time be issued or delivered upon the exercise of any Warrant or upon any adjustment pursuant to Article IV, and it makes no representation with respect thereto. The Warrant Agent shall not be responsible for any failure of the Company to make any cash payment or to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock upon the surrender of any Warrant Certificate for the purpose of exercise.
          Section 5.03. . The Warrant Agent and any stockholder, director, officer or employee of the Warrant Agent may buy, sell or deal in any of the Warrants or other securities of the Company or its Affiliates or become pecuniarily interested in transactions in which the Company or its Affiliates may be interested, or contract with or lend money to the Company or its Affiliates or otherwise act as fully and freely as though it were not the Warrant Agent under this Agreement. Nothing herein shall preclude the Warrant Agent from acting in any other capacity for the Company or for any other legal entity.
Individual Rights of Warrant Agent
          Section 5.04. . The Warrant Agent shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Agreement or the Warrant Certificates and it shall not be responsible for any statement in this Agreement or the Warrant Certificates other than its countersignature thereon.
Warrant Agents Disclaimer
'
          Section 5.05. . The Company agrees that the Warrant Agent is entitled, from time to time, to reasonable compensation for its services as agreed and to reimbursement for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by it, including the reasonable compensation and expenses of the Warrant Agent's agents and counsel as agreed. The Company shall indemnify the Warrant Agent, its officers, directors, agents and counsel against any loss, liability or expense (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by it without willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith on its part arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or performance of its duties under this Agreement. The Warrant Agent shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity, and the Company, at its option, may control the defense of such claim with counsel of the Company's choice. The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss or liability incurred by the Warrant Agent through willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith. The Companys payment and indemnification obligations pursuant to this Section 5.05 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Compensation and Indemnity
'
          Section 5.06. .
Successor Warrant Agent
                    (a) . The Company agrees for the benefit of the Holders that there shall at all times be a competent and reputable Warrant Agent hereunder until all the Warrants have been exercised or are no longer exercisable.
Company to Provide and Maintain Warrant Agent
                    (b) . The Warrant Agent may at any time resign by giving written notice to the Company of such intention on its part, specifying the date on which its desired resignation shall become effective; , that such date shall not be less than 60 days after the date on which such notice is given unless the Company otherwise agrees in writing. The Warrant Agent hereunder may be removed at any time by the filing with it of an instrument in writing signed by or on behalf of the Company and specifying such removal and the date when it shall become effective, which date shall not be less than 60 days after such
Resignation and Removal
provided, however
notice is given unless the Warrant Agent otherwise agrees in writing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any resignation or removal under this Section 5.06 shall take effect upon the appointment by the Company as hereinafter provided of a successor Warrant Agent (which shall be a bank or trust company authorized under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization to exercise corporate trust powers) and the acceptance of such appointment by such successor Warrant Agent.
                    (c) . In the event that at any time the Warrant Agent shall resign, or shall be removed, or shall become incapable of acting, or shall be adjudged bankrupt or insolvent, or shall commence a voluntary case under the federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or under any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law or shall consent to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, custodian, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Warrant Agent or its property or affairs, or shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or shall take corporate action in furtherance of any such action, or a decree or order for relief by a court shall have been entered in respect of the Warrant Agent in an involuntary case under the federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law, or a decree or order by a court shall have been entered for the appointment of a receiver, custodian, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of the Warrant Agent or of its property or affairs, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Warrant Agent or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation, winding up or liquidation, a successor Warrant Agent, qualified as aforesaid, shall be appointed by the Company by an instrument in writing, filed with the successor Warrant Agent. Upon the appointment as aforesaid of a successor Warrant Agent and acceptance by the successor Warrant Agent of such appointment, the Warrant Agent shall cease to be Warrant Agent hereunder.
The Company to Appoint Successor
                    (d) . Any successor Warrant Agent appointed hereunder shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to its predecessor and to the Company an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon such successor Warrant Agent, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights and obligations of such predecessor with like effect as if originally named as Warrant Agent hereunder, and such predecessor, upon payment of its charges and disbursements then unpaid, shall thereupon become obligated to transfer, deliver and pay over, and such successor Warrant Agent shall be entitled to receive, all monies, securities and other property on deposit with or held by such predecessor, as Warrant Agent hereunder.
Successor to Expressly Assume Duties
                    (e) . Any corporation into which the Warrant Agent hereunder may be merged or consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger or consolidation to which the Warrant Agent shall be a party, or any corporation to which the Warrant Agent shall sell or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of its assets and business, shall be the successor Warrant Agent under this Agreement without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto; , that such corporation shall be qualified as aforesaid.
Successor by Merger
provided, however
          Section 6.01. . Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to confer upon any Person other than the Company, the Warrant Agent and the Holders any right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement or any part hereof.
Persons Benefiting
          Section 6.02. . Holders of unexercised Warrants, as such, have no rights as stockholders and are not entitled to exercise any rights whatsoever as stockholders of the Company, including, but not limited to the rights to (i) receive dividends or other distributions except as expressly provided in this Agreement, (ii) receive notice of or vote at any meeting of the stockholders, (iii) consent to any action of the stockholders, (iv) receive notice of any other proceedings of the Company, or (v) exercise any preemptive right.
Rights of Holders
          Section 6.03. . This Agreement may be amended by the parties hereto without the consent of any Holder for the purpose of curing any ambiguity, or of curing, correcting or supplementing any defective or inconsistent provision contained herein or adding or changing any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Agreement as the Company and the Warrant Agent may deem necessary or desirable; , that such action shall not adversely affect the rights of any of the Holders. Any amendment or supplement to this Agreement that has an adverse effect on the interests of any of the Holders shall require the written consent of the Holders of a majority of the then outstanding Warrants; that the consent of each Holder affected thereby shall be required for any amendment pursuant to which (i) the Exercise Price would be changed (other than pursuant to adjustments provided for in Article IV), (ii) the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants would be decreased or the kind or amount of other property issuable upon exercise of the Warrants would be changed or decreased, as applicable (in each case, other than pursuant to adjustments provided for in Article IV), (iii) the time period during which the Warrants are exercisable would be shortened or the Holder's right to exercise the Warrants would otherwise be materially impaired or (iv) the percentage of Holders required to amend the Warrants or this Agreement would be reduced. In determining whether the Holders of the required number of Warrants have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, only Warrants outstanding at the time shall be considered in any such determination, and Warrants known to the Warrant Agent to be owned by the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding. The Company or the Warrant Agent may set a record date for any such direction, waiver or consent and only the Holders as of such record date shall be entitled to make or give such direction, waiver or consent.
Amendment
provided, however
provided further
          Section 6.04. . Any notice or communication shall be in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first-class mail addressed as follows:
Notices
          if to the Company:
          The Company or the Warrant Agent each by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
          Any notice or communication mailed to a Holder shall be mailed to the Holder at the Holder's address as it appears on the Warrant Register and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed.
          Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
          Section 6.05. . This Agreement, the Warrant Certificates and the Warrants will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          Section 6.06. . All agreements of the Company in this Agreement and the Warrant Certificates shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Warrant Agent in this Agreement shall bind its successors.
Successors
          Section 6.07. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          Section 6.08. . The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and if any clause or provision shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in whole or in part in any jurisdiction, then such invalidity or unenforceability shall affect in that jurisdiction only such clause or provision, or part thereof, and shall not in any manner affect such clause or provision in any other jurisdiction or any other clause or provision of this Agreement in any jurisdiction.
Severability
          Section 6.09. . The Company agrees that, as of the date hereof, applicable law does not require or impose any withholding or reduction for any tax or other governmental charge upon the distribution of the Warrants, and that the distribution of the Warrants shall be made free and clear of, and without reduction or withholding for, any tax or other governmental charge unless a change to applicable law requiring such a withholding or reduction occurs between the date hereof and the Closing Date (in which case the Company shall provide prompt notice of such change of law to the Holders). In the event of such a change of law, the Company, the Warrant Agent or their agents shall be entitled, but not obligated, to deduct and withhold the amount so required by withholding a portion or all of the Warrants otherwise deliverable in such amounts as they deem necessary to meet their withholding obligations, and shall also be entitled, but not obligated, to sell all or a portion of such withheld Warrants by public or private sale in such amounts and in such manner as they deem necessary and practicable to pay such taxes and charges. To the extent that Warrants are so withheld, (i) the Company, the Warrant Agent or their agents, as applicable, shall remit to the applicable tax authority the amount required to be withheld from such distribution, and (ii) the withheld Warrants shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been distributed to the Holders in respect of which such deduction and withholding was made.
Withholding
          Section 6.10. . Each Holder shall render to the Company no later than the Closing Date an Internal Revenue Service Form W-9, W-8BEN or W-8IMY, as appropriate, duly executed by an officer of such Holder.
Holder Tax Certification
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Warrant Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
EXHIBIT A
          [UNLESS THIS GLOBAL WARRANT IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (""), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
          TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL WARRANT SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSORS NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE WARRANT AGREEMENT REFERRED TO BELOW.]
          [THIS SECURITY AND THE COMMON STOCK, IF ANY, ISSUABLE UPON EXERCISE OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE ""), AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER:
SECURITIES ACT
          PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(D) ABOVE, THE COMPANY AND THE WARRANT AGENT RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.]
          THIS CERTIFIES THAT [CEDE & CO.] [                    ], or its registered assigns, is the registered holder of [the number of warrants as set forth in the "Schedule of Increases or Decreases in Global Security" attached hereto, in accordance with the rules of the Depositary] [the number of Warrants set forth above] (the ""). Each Warrant entitles the holder thereof (the ""), at its option and subject to the provisions contained herein and in the Warrant Agreement referred to below, to purchase from LEGG MASON, INC., a Maryland corporation (including any successor thereto, the ""), a number of shares of common stock, par value of $0.10 per share, of the Company (the "") equal to the Number of Warrant Shares, at the per share exercise price of $[88.00] (as such exercise price may be adjusted pursuant to Article IV of the Warrant Agreement, the ""). This Warrant Certificate shall terminate as of 5:00 p.m., New York time, on July 15, 2017 (the "") or upon the exercise or deemed exercise hereof as to all the shares of Common Stock subject hereto. The number of shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants and the Exercise Price per share shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as set forth in the Warrant Agreement.
3
4
5
6
Warrants
Holder
Company
Common Stock
7
Exercise Price
Expiration Date
          This Warrant Certificate is issued under and in accordance with a Warrant Agreement, dated as of [               ], 20[   ] (the ""), between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC (the "", which term includes any successor Warrant Agent under the Warrant Agreement), and is subject to the terms and provisions contained in the Warrant Agreement, to all of which terms and provisions the Holder of this Warrant Certificate consents by acceptance hereof. The Warrant Agreement is hereby incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof. Reference is hereby made to the Warrant Agreement for a full statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations of the Company, the Warrant Agent and the Holders of the Warrants. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Warrant Agreement. A copy of the Warrant Agreement may be obtained for inspection by the Holder
Warrant Agreement
Warrant Agent
Insert for a Global Warrant.
2
Insert for a Global Warrant.
3
Insert for a Definitive Warrant.
4
Inset for a Global Warrant.
5
Insert for a Definitive Warrant.
6
Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 5.7 of the Note Exchange Agreement.
7
hereof upon written request to the Warrant Agent, 6201 15th Avenue, Brooklyn, New York 11219, Telephone: 718-921-8200, Attention: Corporate Trust Department.
          Subject to the terms of the Warrant Agreement, the Holder may exercise the Warrants at its option in whole or in part. As provided in the Warrant Agreement and subject to the terms and conditions therein set forth, the Warrants shall be exercisable at any time and from time to time on any Business Day on and after the Issue Date. Any Warrants that have not been exercised prior to 5:00 p.m., New York time, on the Expiration Date shall be deemed to be exercised by the Holder thereof immediately prior to such time on the Expiration Date in accordance with Section 3.04(b) of the Warrant Agreement.
          No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued upon the exercise of the Warrants, but the Company shall pay an amount in cash equal to the VWAP of the Common Stock on the last Trading Day of the Observation Period, the fraction of a share of Common Stock that would be issuable on the exercise of any Warrant, computed to the nearest whole cent.
multiplied by
          All shares of Common Stock issuable by the Company upon the exercise of the Warrants shall, upon such issue, be duly and validly issued and fully paid and non-assessable.
          The Warrants do not entitle any Holder hereof to any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company.
          The Warrants, and any claim, controversy or dispute arising under or related to the Warrants, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York.
          In the case of any conflict between this Warrant Certificate and the Warrant Agreement, the provisions of the Warrant Agreement shall control and govern.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Warrant Certificate to be duly executed.
          This Warrant Certificate shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until it shall have been countersigned by the Warrant Agent.
DATED:
Countersigned:
AMERICAN STOCK TRANSFER & TRUST COMPANY, LLC, as Warrant Agent,
ATTACHMENT 1
          The undersigned hereby irrevocably elects to exercise_________________Warrants to acquire shares of Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share, of LEGG MASON, INC. (the ""), or cash in lieu of such shares at the Company's election, at an exercise price per share of Common Stock of $[88.00] (as such exercise may be adjusted pursuant to Article IV of the Warrant Agreement) and otherwise on the terms and conditions specified in the within Warrant Certificate and the Warrant Agreement therein referred to, surrenders all right, title and interest in the number of Warrants exercised hereby to LEGG MASON, INC. and directs that the cash or shares of Common Stock payable or deliverable upon the exercise of such Warrants, and interests in any Global Warrant or Definitive Warrant representing unexercised Warrants, be registered or placed in the name and at the address specified below and delivered thereto. If other than the registered holder of the Warrants, the undersigned must pay all transfer taxes, assessments or similar governmental charges in connection with any such transfer or exchange.
Common Stock
8
          For value received, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto_________________ _________________________ (_______ ) warrants ("") to purchase shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of LEGG MASON, INC. (the "") evidenced by the attached Warrant Certificate and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint _____________attorney to transfer the Warrant, or such portion as is transferred hereby, on the books of the Company with full power of substitution in the premises. The undersigned requests said attorney to issue to the transferee a Warrant Certificate evidencing such transfer and to issue to the undersigned a new Warrant Certificate evidencing Warrants for the balance not so transferred, if any.
Warrants
Company
In connection with any transfer of the within Warrant occurring prior to the Resale Restriction Termination Date, as defined in the Warrant Agreement governing such Warrant, the undersigned confirms that such Warrant is being transferred:
o
To Legg Mason, Inc. or a subsidiary thereof; or
o
Pursuant to a registration statement that has become or been declared effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; or
o
Pursuant to and in compliance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; or
o
Pursuant to and in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any other available exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The initial number of Warrants represented by the Global Warrants is [     ].
The following increases or decreases in this Global Security have been made:
EXHIBIT B
          REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of [               ], 20[    ], by and between LEGG MASON, INC., a Maryland corporation (the ""), and KKR I-L LIMITED (the "").
Agreement
Company
KKR Holder
          This Agreement is made pursuant to the Note Exchange Agreement, dated [               ], 20[    ] (the ""), by and among the Company, the Holders named on Schedule I thereto (the "Sellers") and, for limited purposes, the Sponsor (as defined below), which provides for the repurchase by the Company from the Sellers of $1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (the ""). In consideration of the repurchase of the Notes, the Termination (as defined in the Note Exchange Agreement) and the amendment of certain agreements that were entered into when the Notes were issued, the Company desires to issue to the KKR Holder, Citibank, N.A., Credit Suisse International and HSBC Bank USA, National Association warrants ("") to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock (as defined below). The Warrants, together with the shares of Common Stock deliverable upon exercise of the Warrants, are referred to herein as the "." In order to induce the KKR Holder to enter into the Note Exchange Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Note Exchange Agreement.
Note Exchange Agreement
Notes
Warrants
Securities
          In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          1. .
Definitions
          As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
          "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
1933 Act
          "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of l934, as amended.
1934 Act
          "" shall have the meaning given to it in the Note Exchange Agreement.
Affiliate
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
          "" or "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 of the rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act.
Beneficially Own
Beneficial Ownership
          "" shall mean any calendar day on which the New York Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the NASDAQ Global Market and the Securities and Exchange Commission are open for trading or business, as the case may be.
Business Day
          "" shall have the meaning given to it in the Note Exchange Agreement.
Closing Date
          "" shall mean any shares of common stock, $0.10 par value, of the Company and any other shares of common stock as may constitute "Common Stock" for purposes of the Warrant Agreement.
Common Stock
          "" means a distribution of Warrants or Common Stock that are Registrable Securities in connection with which Holders have invoked their rights for cooperation from the Company under Section 5 of this Agreement.
Company Supported Distribution
          "" shall mean The Depository Trust Company and its successors or assigns, or any other depositary appointed by the Company; , that such appointed depositary must have an address in the Borough of Manhattan, in The City of New York, unless no such depositary is available.
Depositary
provided, however
          "" shall mean the period beginning on the date the Shelf Registration Statement is effective pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof and ending on the earlier of (i) such time as all the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities and (ii) the date that is 90 days following the Expiration Date.
Effectiveness Period
          "" shall have the meaning given to it in the Warrant Agreement.
Expiration Date
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act.
Free Writing Prospectus
          "" shall mean the KKR Holder, for so long as it owns any Registrable Securities, and each Affiliate of the Sponsor or the KKR Holder that Beneficially Owns Registrable Securities.
Holder
          "" shall mean an initial purchaser or placement agent in connection with the offer or sale of Securities pursuant to a Company Supported Distribution effected under Rule 144A.
Initial Purchaser
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
          "" shall mean Holders holding over 50% of the aggregate number of Warrants constituting Registrable Securities outstanding; that, for the purpose of this definition, a holder of shares of Common Stock delivered upon exercise of the Warrants, shall be deemed to hold an aggregate number of Warrants (in addition to the number of Warrants held by such holder) equal to the quotient of (A) the number of such shares of Common Stock held by such holder and (B) the Number of Warrant Shares in effect at the time of the exercise of the Warrants as determined in accordance with the Warrant Agreement; that whenever the consent or approval of the Majority Holders or of a specified percentage of the Holders of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Warrants or Common Stock delivered upon exercise of the Warrants that are held by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company shall be disregarded, and Warrants held by any Holder shall be included in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Majority Holders or such specified percentage of the Holders of Registrable Securities.
Majority Holders
provided
provided further
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Warrant Agreement.
Number of Warrant Shares
          "" shall mean an individual, partnership (general or limited), corporation, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
          "" shall mean the prospectus relating to the Securities included in a Shelf Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including any such prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to a prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and in each case including all materials incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
          "" shall mean all or any of the Securities; , that such Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (i) a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to such Securities shall have become effective under the 1933 Act and such Securities shall have been sold or transferred pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, (ii) such Securities have been transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the 1933 Act (or any successor provision thereto), or (iii) such Securities shall have ceased to be outstanding.
Registrable Securities
provided, however
          "" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including: (i) all SEC registration and filing fees, (ii) in the case of a Company Supported Distribution for the benefit of the Holders, all reasonable fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel for any Underwriters, Initial Purchasers or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any of the Registrable Securities), (iii) all expenses of the Company in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Shelf Registration Statement and any Prospectus, and, in the case of a Company Supported Distribution, any offering or information memorandum, any amendments or supplements thereto, any securities sales agreements and any other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing, if any, of any of the Registrable Securities on any securities exchange or exchanges, (v) all rating agency fees, if any, (vi) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and of the independent public accountants of the Company, including, in the case of a Company Supported Distribution, the expenses of any "comfort letters", (vii) the reasonable fees and expenses of the Warrant Agent, and any escrow agent or custodian, and (viii) the reasonable fees and expenses of a single counsel to the Holders in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement and in connection with a Company Supported Distribution, which counsel shall be selected by the Majority Holders, but excluding any underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder and, except as provided under clause (viii) above, all reasonable expenses and fees for all counsel and other professionals representing the Holders in connection with the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities.
Registration or Offering Expenses
          "" means Rule 144A under the 1933 Act.
Rule 144A
          "" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency or government body performing the functions currently performed by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
          "" shall mean the date 180 days after the Closing Date.
Shelf Effectiveness Deadline
          "" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2.1.
Shelf Registration
          "" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.1 of this Agreement which covers all of the Registrable Securities on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all materials incorporated by reference therein; , that a registration statement shall not be deemed a Shelf Registration Statement until such time as it includes a Prospectus relating to the Securities.
Shelf Registration Statement
provided, however
          "" shall mean Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P.
Sponsor
          "" shall mean an offer and sale of Securities that are Registrable Securities of at least the Threshold Amount by one or more Holders to purchasers that are not Affiliates of the Company (other than the Sponsor or its Affiliates to the extent they are deemed to be "Affiliates" of the Company at such time), where such offer and sale is made pursuant to either Rule 144A or pursuant to a bona fide public offering made pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
Substantial Distribution
          "" shall mean, with respect to an offer and sale of Securities that are Registrable Securities, an aggregate of at least 4,687,500 Warrants (calculated, with respect to Common Stock as set forth in the definition of "Majority Holders"); , , if the proposed offer and sale of Securities relates to all of the Securities held by a Holder and its Affiliates, "Threshold Amount" shall mean an aggregate of at least 1,420,454 Warrants.
Threshold Amount
provided
however
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Warrant Agreement.
Warrant Agent
          "" means the Warrant Agreement dated as of the date hereof between the Company and the Warrant Agent.
Warrant Agreement
          "" shall mean an underwriter, as defined in the 1933 Act, of the Securities in connection with an offering thereof under a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to and in accordance with a Company Supported Distribution.
Underwriter
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act.
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
          2. .
Registration Under the 1933 Act
                    2.1 .
Shelf Registration
                              (a) No later than 90 days after the Closing Date the Company shall, at its cost, file with the SEC a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders that have provided the Questionnaire and the other information pursuant to Section 2.1(d). The Company shall, at its cost, use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to become or be declared effective under the 1933 Act as promptly as is reasonably practicable after such Shelf Registration Statement is filed, but in no event later than the Shelf Effectiveness Deadline. If the Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer at the time of filing the Shelf Registration Statement with the SEC, such Shelf Registration Statement shall be designated by the Company as an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement.
                              (b) The Company shall, at its cost, use its commercially reasonable efforts, subject to Section 2.4, to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the 1933 Act in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders during the Effectiveness Period. Upon the expiration of an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement, so long as it remains a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer the Company shall file a new Shelf Registration Statement which shall be designated by the Company as an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement.
                              (c) The Company shall cause the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, as of the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement or such amendment or supplement, (i) to comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the 1933 Act, and (ii) not to contain any untrue statement of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made) not misleading.
                              (d) Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, no Holder of Registrable Securities may include any of its Registrable Securities in the Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement unless the Holder furnishes to the Company a fully completed notice and questionnaire in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "") and such other information in writing as the Company may reasonably request in writing for use in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement and in any application to be filed with or under state securities laws. At least 30 business days prior to the filing of the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company will provide notice to the Holders of its intention to file the Shelf Registration Statement. In order to be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus at the time of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder must no later than 20 days following notice by the Company as set forth in the previous sentence, furnish in writing the completed Questionnaire and such other information that the Company may reasonably request in writing, if any, to the Company and the Company will include the information from the completed Questionnaire and such other information, if any, in the Shelf Registration Statement and the Prospectus, as necessary and in a manner, so that upon effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement the Holder will be permitted to deliver the Prospectus to purchasers of the Holder's Registrable Securities. Each Holder shall update such information upon the written request of the Company. From and after the date that the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective, upon receipt of a completed Questionnaire and such other information that the Company may reasonably request in writing, if any, the Company shall (i) within 20 Business Days after receipt of such Questionnaire and such other information, use commercially reasonable efforts to file any
Questionnaire
amendments or supplements to the Shelf Registration Statement necessary for such Holder to be named as a selling securityholder in the Prospectus contained therein to permit such Holder to deliver the Prospectus to purchasers of the Holder's Securities, that if a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement is required, the Company shall not be obligated to file more than one such amendment for all such holders during one fiscal quarter, that if such Questionnaire and such other information is delivered during a Suspension Period, the Company shall so inform the Holder delivering such Questionnaire and such other information and shall take the action described in this Section 2.1(d) (i) within five Business Days after the expiration of the Suspension Period and (ii) if the Company files a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such post-effective amendment to become or be declared effective under the 1933 Act as promptly as practicable. Holders that do not deliver a completed written Questionnaire and such other information, as provided for in this Section 2.1(d), will not be named as selling securityholders in the Prospectus. Each Holder named as a selling securityholder in the Prospectus agrees to promptly furnish to the Company in writing all information required to be disclosed in order to make information previously furnished to the Company by the Holder not materially misleading and any other information regarding such Holder and the distribution of such Holder's Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing for inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement.
provided
provided, further,
                              (e) Each Holder agrees that if such Holder wishes to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus it will do so only in accordance with Section 2.1(d) and subject to Section 2.4. Each Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement without delivering, or causing to be delivered, a Prospectus (excluding those materials incorporated by reference therein) to the purchaser thereof or complying with Rule 153 under the 1933 Act and, following termination of the Effectiveness Period, to notify the Company, within ten days of a written request by the Company, of the amount of Registrable Securities sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
                              (f) The Company agrees that, in the context of a registered Company Supported Distribution, and only for the period of 30 days from the earlier of the public announcement or commencement of marketing efforts with respect to such Company Supported Distribution, unless it obtains the prior consent of the managing Underwriter (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), and each Holder agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Company, it will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a Free Writing Prospectus required to be filed with the SEC. The Company represents that any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus prepared by it or authorized by it in writing for use by such Holder will be delivered to each such Holder and will not include any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus and that any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when taken together with the information in the Shelf Registration Statement and the Prospectus, will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
          The Company agrees to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement if required by the 1933 Act or the rules and regulations thereunder or by the instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company or, to the extent the Company does not reasonably object, as reasonably requested by the KKR Holder with respect to information relating to the KKR Holder or by the Warrant Agent on behalf of the Holders covered by such Shelf Registration Statement with respect to information relating to such Holders, and to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after it is used or filed with the SEC; , , that any such amendment or supplement filed by the Company via the EDGAR system will be deemed to have been furnished to the Holders of Registrable Securities.
provided
however
                    2.2 . The Company shall pay all Registration or Offering Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Section 2.1 and, without duplication, in connection with a Company Supported Distribution pursuant to Section 5. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting and placement discounts and commissions, agency and placement fees, brokers commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities.
Expenses
                    2.3 . After a Shelf Registration Statement is effective, if the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, such Shelf Registration Statement will be deemed not to have been effective during the period of such interference, until the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement may legally resume.
Effectiveness
                    2.4 . Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Company may suspend the use of any Prospectus for a period not to exceed an aggregate of 60 days in any 90-day period or an aggregate of 120 calendar days in any 360-day period, as such period may be reduced pursuant to Section 5(b) hereof (each, a ""), if the Company shall have determined in good faith that because of valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including without limitation plans for a registered public offering, an acquisition or other proposed or pending corporate developments and similar events or because of filings with the SEC, it is in the best interests of the Company to suspend such use, and prior to suspending such use the Company provides the Holders with written notice of such suspension, which notice need not specify the nature of the event giving rise to such suspension (and, upon receipt of such notice, each Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement until such Holder is advised in writing that the Prospectus may be used, which notice the Company agrees to provide promptly following the lapse of the event or circumstances giving rise to such suspension), that 60 days shall be increased to 75 days if the Company shall have determined in good faith that the disclosure of previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction would be reasonably likely to impede its ability to consummate such transaction. Each Holder shall keep confidential any communications received by it from the Company regarding the suspension of the use of the Prospectus (including the fact of the suspension), except as required by applicable law.
Suspension
Suspension Period
provided
          3. .
Registration Procedures
          In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to the Shelf Registration, the Company shall, subject to the rights of the Company to invoke and maintain a Suspension Period in accordance with Section 2.4 of this Agreement without being in violation of any of the provisions hereof:
                              (a) not less than five days prior to filing the Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus (other than amendments and supplements that do nothing more than name Holders and provide information with respect thereto), furnish to the Holders or any Underwriter or designee thereof and one special counsel to the Holders or any Underwriter or designee thereof copies of all such documents proposed to be filed and use its commercially reasonable efforts to reflect in each such document when so filed with the SEC such comments as the Holders or any Underwriter or designee thereof and such special counsel to the Holders or any Underwriter or designee thereof reasonably shall propose within three days of the delivery of such copies to the Holders or any Underwriter or designee thereof and counsel to the Holders or any Underwriter or designee thereof. In addition, if any Holder that has provided the Questionnaire and the other information required by Section 2.1(d) shall so request in writing, a reasonable time prior to filing any such documents, the Company shall furnish to such Holder copies of all such documents proposed to be filed and use its commercially reasonable efforts to reflect in each such document when so filed with the SEC such comments as such Holder reasonably shall propose within three Business Days of the delivery of such copies to such Holder;
                              (b) ensure that (i) the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming part thereof and any amendment or supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the 1933 Act, and (ii) the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading;
                              (c) use its commercially reasonable efforts at all times, except as provided in Section 2.4, to take all steps necessary to effect and maintain the registration of all of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement;
                              (d) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to the Shelf Registration Statement as may be necessary under applicable law to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective for the Effectiveness Period, subject to Section 2.4; and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed in compliance with Rule 424 (or any similar provision then in force) under the 1933 Act and use its commercially reasonable efforts to comply during the Effectiveness Period with the provisions of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder required to enable the disposition of all Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution (as provided to the Company in the Questionnaires) by the selling Holders thereof;
                              (e) (i) notify in writing each Holder of Registrable Securities of the filing of a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement and of when any such Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement has become effective; (ii) during the Effectiveness Period, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities that has provided the Questionnaires and the information required by Section 2.1(d) and to each Underwriter, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto and such other documents as such Holder or Underwriter may reasonably request in writing, including financial statements and schedules and, if such Holder or Underwriter so requests, all exhibits thereto in connection with the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities; and (iii) subject to Section 2.4 and to any notice by the Company in accordance with Section 3(g) of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Sections 3(g)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders and Underwriters of Registrable Securities that has provided the Questionnaire and the other information required by Section 2.1(d) in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by such Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in the manner set forth therein;
                              (f) use its commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the Holders and Underwriters in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement and each Underwriter shall reasonably request in writing, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to maintain such registration or qualification and to enable each such Holder and Underwriter to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; , that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(f), or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
provided, however
                              (g) notify as promptly as reasonably practicable each Holder of Registrable Securities under a Shelf Registration that has provided the Questionnaire and the other information required by Section 2.1(d) and, if requested by such Holder, confirm such advice in writing promptly (i) of any request, following the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement under the 1933 Act, by the SEC or any state securities authority for post-effective amendments and supplements to a Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Shelf Registration Statement has become effective, (ii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iii) of the occurrence (but not the nature of or details concerning) of any event or the discovery of any facts during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective which makes any statement made in such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading, (, , that no notice by the Company shall be required pursuant to this clause (iii) in the event that the Company either promptly files a Prospectus supplement to update the Prospectus or a Form 8-K or other appropriate 1934 Act report that is incorporated by reference into
provided
however
the Shelf Registration Statement, which, in either case, contains the requisite information that results in such Shelf Registration Statement no longer containing any untrue statement of material fact or omitting to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading), (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose and (v) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement would be required by applicable law;
                              (h) provided a Holder (collectively with its Affiliates) then holds at least 1,420,454 Registrable Securities (calculated with respect to Common Stock, as set forth in the definition of "Majority Holders"), as promptly as reasonably practicable furnish to such Holder and any Underwriter or designee thereof (i) copies of any comment letters received from the SEC with respect to a Shelf Registration Statement and, if requested by such Holder in connection with an offering of Registrable Securities, copies of any comment letters received from the SEC with respect to any documents incorporated therein and (ii) any other request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments or supplements to a Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information with respect to the Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus;
                              (i) use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement or the qualification of the securities therein for sale in any jurisdiction at the earliest practicable moment or, if any such order or suspension is made effective during any Suspension Period, at the earliest practicable moment after the Suspension Period;
                              (j) upon the occurrence of any event or the discovery of any facts, each as contemplated by Sections 3(g)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event or within the time period required by Section 2.4, use its commercially reasonable efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain at the time of such delivery any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and, at such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material fact or to include any omitted material fact, the Company agrees promptly to notify each Holder that has provided the Questionnaire and the other information required by Section 2.1(d) of such determination and to furnish each Holder such number of copies of the Prospectus as amended or supplemented, as such Holder may reasonably request;
                              (k) use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause all Registrable Securities which are Common Stock to be listed on any securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which shares of Common Stock are then listed;
                              (l) make generally available to its security holders earning statements covering at least 12 months (which need not be audited) satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of
the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder as soon as reasonably practicable and, in any event, no later than 45 days after the end of a 12-month period (or 90 days, if such period is a fiscal year), or such longer period as may be permitted under the 1934 Act, beginning with the first month of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement;
                              (m) make a reasonable effort to provide such information as is required for any filings required to be made with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; and
                              (n) not later than the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement, provide a CUSIP number for the Securities registered under the Shelf Registration Statement and provide the Warrant Agent with certificates for such Securities, free of any restrictive legends, in a form eligible for deposit with the Warrant Agent as custodian for Depositary.
          Without limiting the provisions of Section 2.1(d), the Company may (as a condition to such Holder's participation in the Shelf Registration) require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing. Each Holder agrees promptly to furnish to the Company in writing all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Holder not misleading, any other information regarding such Holder and the distribution of such Registrable Securities as may be required to be disclosed in the Prospectus or Shelf Registration Statement under applicable law or pursuant to SEC comments and any information otherwise reasonably required by the Company to comply with applicable law or regulations.
          Each Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Section 3(g)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Prospectus included in the Shelf Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(j) or written notice from the Company that the Shelf Registration Statement is again effective and no amendment or supplement is needed, and, if so directed by the Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies in such Holder's possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities at the time of receipt of such notice.
          4. .
Indemnification; Contribution
                              (a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the KKR Holder, each Holder who provided the Questionnaire and the other information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(d) and each of their respective directors, officers and employees and agents and each Person, if any, who controls the KKR Holder or such Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act (each of the foregoing is referred to herein as an "") (i) against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such indemnified party may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below)
Indemnification by the Company
indemnified party
arises out of or is based upon (x) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Shelf Registration Statement (or, in each case, any amendment or supplement thereto), including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (y) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (z) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus prepared by it or authorized by it in writing for use by such Holder (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and (ii) against any and all reasonable out-of-pocket expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under subparagraph (i) above; and to reimburse each indemnified party for any and all expenses (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the indemnified parties) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense incurred by an indemnified party to the extent, but only to the extent, (A) arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such indemnified party expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or, in each case, any amendment or supplement thereto), any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or (B) use of a Prospectus during a period when use of such Prospectus has been suspended pursuant to Section 2.4 hereof, that such Holder has received notice of such suspension. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 4(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
provided, however
provided
                              (b) . Each Holder who has provided the Questionnaire and the other information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(d), severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the KKR Holder and the other selling Holders who have provided the Questionnaire and the other information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(d) and each of their respective directors, officers, employees and agents and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, the KKR Holder or any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 4(a), as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Shelf Registration Statement (or, in each case, any amendment thereto), any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus included therein (or any amendment or
Indemnification by the Holders
supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information with respect to such Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or, in each case, any amendment thereto), such preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
                              (c) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 4 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 4, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the failure to so notify the indemnifying party (1) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure materially prejudices the indemnifying party and (2) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; , if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict will arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be material legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties. Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 4 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (other than one local counsel), reasonably approved by the indemnifying party, representing the indemnified parties who are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures
provided, however
                              (d) . The indemnifying party under this Section 4 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, which shall not be withheld unreasonably, but if settled with such consent or if there is a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the
Settlements
foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 4(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 45 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (x) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (y) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
                              (e) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 4 is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
          The relative fault of the indemnifying parties on the one hand and the indemnified parties and the Holders on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, or by the Holders and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
          The Company and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 4 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 4. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 4 shall be deemed to include any reasonable out-of-pocket legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
          Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 4, no Holder shall be required to indemnify or contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages which such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
          No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
          For purposes of this Section 4, each director, officer, employee and agent of any Holder, or each Person, if any, who controls any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Holder, and each director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
                              (f) The provisions of this Section 4 shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or the Company or any indemnified person referred to in this Section 4, and shall survive the sale by a Holder of securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement.
          5.
Distributions by Holders
                              (a) If the Company shall at any time receive a written request from Holders then able to participate in a Substantial Distribution that in the aggregate have Beneficial Ownership of at least the Threshold Amount of Registrable Securities (i) that the Company assist in a Substantial Distribution, (ii) stating that such Holders have a current bona fide intent to effectuate a Substantial Distribution and (iii) providing verification that such Holders Beneficially Own at least the Threshold Amount of Registrable Securities, the Company will (x) provide reasonable notice of the request to each Holder pursuant to which the Company will offer to include such Holder's Registrable Securities in such Substantial Distribution upon a written request from such Holder received by the Company within 10 days of such notice (such request to specify the number of such Holder's Registrable Securities that such Holder requests be included in such Substantial Distribution) and (y) provide such Holders (including such Holders that submitted a written request within such ten-day period) with its reasonable cooperation, as requested by such Holders, to facilitate such Substantial Distribution; , that the Company shall only be required to assist the Holders with an aggregate of three such Substantial Distributions; , , that the Company shall not be required to assist any Holders with a Substantial Distribution more than twice in any 365 day period; and , , that the Company will only be required to provide Holders with such cooperation until the earlier of consummation of the Company Supported Distribution or 45 days following the earlier of the public announcement or commencement of marketing efforts with respect to such distribution. Under any circumstances and for such periods as the Company would be permitted to initiate a Suspension Period pursuant to Section 2.4, the Company shall have the right to delay the commencement (e.g., the taking of any external activity, but not including internal, non-public preparatory work) of a Company Supported Distribution (a "") for a period of days which, when aggregated with any pending or prior Suspension Periods and Delay Periods, would not exceed the 60 and 120-day limits set forth in Section 2.4 without, in the context of a registered Company Supported Distribution, formally initiating a Suspension Period, provided that any such Delay Periods may not exceed and shall reduce (on a day-for-day basis) the 60 and 120-day limits referred to in Section 2.4 unless otherwise agreed by the Majority Holders participating in such registered Company Supported Distribution In addition,
provided
provided
further
provided
further
Delay Period
under no circumstances shall the Company be required to commence a Company Supported Distribution at any time during the three week period immediately preceding the scheduled public disclosure of results for any quarter (the "") and any delay during that time shall not be counted against the Suspension Period. If a request for a Company Supported Distribution has been made before any Delay Period or Pre-Announcement Period, however, the Company will provide reasonable cooperation as is reasonably requested during such Delay Period or Pre-Announcement Period to permit such Company Supported Distribution to be commenced promptly following the expiration of such Delay Period or Pre-Announcement Period. For the avoidance of doubt, any Company Supported Distribution shall not require any pre-clearance under any stock trading policies of the Company in effect at such time.
Pre-Announcement Periods
          For purposes of the three Substantial Distributions with which the Company is required to provide the Holders with assistance, it shall be deemed to be a Substantial Distribution for which the Company has provided assistance if the Holders request such assistance and the Substantial Distribution is cancelled, terminated or otherwise not consummated, unless such cancellation, termination or failure to consummate such Substantial Distribution is based upon material adverse information concerning the Company of which the Holders initiating such Substantial Distribution were not aware at the time of such request.
                              (b) In furtherance of the Company's undertakings, and subject to the limitations in Section 5(a), the Company agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to enter into such customary agreements (on terms reasonably acceptable to the Company) and take all other customary and appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of the Registrable Securities being offered and sold in a Substantial Distribution by the Holders in which the Company provides cooperation, including:
                    If any of the Registrable Securities to be sold in a Substantial Distribution are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the Underwriter or Underwriters and Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers that will manage such offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company.
          (h) This Section 5 shall terminate, and the Holders shall have no rights pursuant to this Section 5, upon the earlier to occur of (i) the date on which the Holders collectively Beneficially Own less than 1,420,454 Registrable Securities (calculated with respect to Common Stock as set forth under the definition of "Majority Holders") and (ii) the termination of the Effectiveness Period.
          6. .
Miscellaneous
                    6.1 . The Company has not entered into and the Company will not after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement with respect to its securities which conflicts with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not for the term of this Agreement conflict with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
No Inconsistent Agreements
                    6.2 . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Majority Holders; if the proposed amendment, qualification, modification, supplement or waiver, as the case may be, has a material and disproportionate adverse effect on certain Holders as compared to the remaining Holders, the consent of the Holders so affected will be required in addition to the consent of the Majority Holders; , , that no amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent with respect to Section 4 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder; and , that the provisions of this Section 6.2 may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of each Holder, except that any provision of this Section 6.2 which provides that an amendment to this Agreement may be made upon the written consent of the Majority Holders may itself be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and
Amendments and Waivers
provided, however,
provided
further
provided, further
waivers or consents to departures from any such provision may be given if the Company obtains the written consent of the Majority Holders. Notwithstanding the foregoing (except the foregoing provisos), (i) a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose Registrable Securities are being sold pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may be given by the Majority Holders, determined on the basis of the Registrable Securities being sold rather than registered under such Shelf Registration Statement and (ii) this Agreement may be amended by a written agreement between the Company and the Majority Holders, without the consent of the Holders of the Registrable Securities, in order to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained herein, provided that no such amendment shall adversely affect the interest of the Holders of Registrable Securities. Each Holder of Registrable Securities outstanding at the time of any amendment, modification, waiver or consent pursuant to this Section 6.2, shall be bound by such amendment, modification, waiver or consent, whether or not any notice or writing indicating such amendment, modification, waiver or consent is delivered to such Holder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Section 5 may only be amended, qualified or supplemented if approved by the Holders.
                    6.3 . All notices, consents and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, registered first-class mail, facsimile, any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery or by electronic delivery (a) if to a Holder, in the manner set forth in the Warrant Agreement; and (b) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Note Exchange Agreement, and thereafter at such other address of which notice is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6.3.
Notices
          All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered in person or by private courier with receipt, if telefaxed when verbal or email confirmation from the recipient is received, or three (3) days after being deposited in the United States mail, first-class, registered or certified, return receipt requested, with postage paid.
          Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications to any Holder shall be deemed to have been duly given, if such notice has been duly given to the Warrant Agent under the Warrant Agreement, at the address specified in such Warrant Agreement.
                    6.4 . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, the Holders, their respective successors and the indemnified persons referred to in Section 4; that in no event shall any Person who Beneficially Owns or otherwise owns or holds any Registrable Securities, other than a Holder, have any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement; , , that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Note Exchange Agreement or the Warrant Agreement. Any Registrable Securities acquired by a Holder in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities, such Holder shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Note Exchange Agreement and the Warrant Agreement, and such Holder shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
Successors
provided
provided
further
                    6.5 . Each Holder of Registrable Securities shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the KKR Holder, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries
                    6.6 . Without limiting the remedies available to the KKR Holder and the other Holders, the Company acknowledges that any failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Section 2.1 may result in material irreparable injury to the KKR Holder or the other Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it may not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the KKR Holder or any other Holder may seek such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's obligations under Section 2.1.
Specific Enforcement
                    6.7 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
                    6.8 . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
                    6.9 . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. THE PARTIES HERETO EACH HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT.
GOVERNING LAW
                    6.10 . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
                    6.11 . This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
                    6.12 . The words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement will refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and section and subsection references are to this Agreement unless otherwise specified. The headings in this Agreement are included for convenience of reference only and will not limit or otherwise affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they will be
Interpretation
deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." The phrases "the date of this Agreement," "the date hereof" and terms of similar import, unless the context otherwise requires, will be deemed to refer to the date set forth in the first paragraph of this Agreement. The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms and to the masculine as well as to the feminine and neuter genders of such term. Any agreement, instrument or statute defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such agreement, instrument or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of agreements or instruments) by waiver or consent and (in the case of statutes) by succession of comparable successor statutes and references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein. All matters to be agreed to by any party hereto must be agreed to in writing by such party unless otherwise indicated herein.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
EXHIBIT A
          The undersigned beneficial owner (the "") of the Warrants (the "") of Legg Mason, Inc. (the "") or the shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share, issuable upon exercise of the Warrants (the "" and, together with the Warrants, the "") hereby gives notice to the Company of its intention to sell or otherwise dispose of Registrable Securities beneficially owned by it and listed below in Item 3 (unless otherwise specified under Item 3) pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. The undersigned, by signing and returning this Selling Securityholder Questionnaire, understands that it will be bound by the terms and conditions of this Selling Securityholder Questionnaire and the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of [               ], 20[    ], by and between the Company and KKR I-L Limited.
Selling Securityholder
Warrants
Company
Common Stock
Registrable Securities
          Selling security holders that do not complete this Questionnaire and deliver it to the Company as provided below will not be named selling security holders in the prospectus and therefore will not be permitted to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
          Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the undersigned has agreed to indemnify and hold harmless the Company's directors, the Company's officers and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), from and against certain losses arising in connection with statements concerning the undersigned made in the Shelf Registration Statement or the related prospectus in reliance upon the information provided in this Selling Securityholder Questionnaire. The undersigned hereby acknowledges its obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement to indemnify and hold harmless certain persons set forth therein.
Exchange Act
          Certain legal consequences arise from being named a selling security holder in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related prospectus. Accordingly, holders and beneficial holders are advised to consult their own securities law counsel regarding the consequences of being named or not named as a selling security holder in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related prospectus.
          The undersigned hereby provides the following information to the Company and represents and warrants that such information is accurate and complete:
          The undersigned Selling Securityholder acknowledges that it understands its obligations to comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules thereunder relating to stock manipulation, particularly Regulation M thereunder (or any successor rules or regulations), in connection with any offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf
Registration Agreement. The undersigned agrees that neither it nor any person acting on its behalf will engage in any transaction in violation of such provisions.
          Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed under certain circumstances to indemnify the Selling Securityholder against certain liabilities.
          In accordance with the undersigned's obligation under the Registration Rights Agreement to provide such information as may be required by law or by the staff of the Commission for inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement, the undersigned agrees to promptly notify the Company of any inaccuracies or changes in the information provided herein that may occur subsequent to the date hereof at any time while the Shelf Registration Statement remains effective. All notices hereunder and pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement shall be made in writing, by hand-delivery, first-class mail, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery to the address set forth below.
          By signing below, the undersigned consents to the disclosure of the information contained herein in its answers to Items (1) through (9) above and the inclusion of such information in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related prospectus. The undersigned understands that such information will be relied upon by the Company in connection with the preparation or amendment of the Shelf Registration Statement and the related prospectus.
          By signing below, the undersigned agrees that if the Company notifies the undersigned that Shelf Registration Statement is not available, the undersigned will suspend use of the prospectus until notice from the Company that the prospectus is again available.
          Once this Selling Securityholder Questionnaire is executed by the undersigned and received by the Company, the terms of this Selling Securityholder Questionnaire, and the representations, warranties and agreements contained herein, shall be binding on, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the respective successors, heirs, personal representatives, and assigns of the Company and the undersigned with respect to the Registrable Securities beneficially owned by the undersigned and listed in Item (3) above. This Selling Securityholder Questionnaire shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of New York.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, by authority duly given, has caused this Selling Securityholder Questionnaire to be executed and delivered either in person or by its duly authorized agent.
EXHIBIT C-1
To the Holders listed in Schedule I to the Note Exchange Agreement referred to below
and
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          We have acted as counsel to Legg Mason, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the ""), in connection with the repurchase by the Company of its 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (the "") pursuant to the Note Exchange Agreement, dated as of [               ], 20[    ] (the ""), among the Company and each of you. In consideration for the repurchase of the Notes and the Termination, the Company shall issue to the Holders warrants (the "") to purchase shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company (the ""). This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 6.1(j) of the Note Exchange Agreement. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Note Exchange Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Company
Notes
Note Exchange Agreement
Warrants
Common Stock
          In that connection, we have reviewed originals or copies of the following documents:
The documents described in the foregoing clauses (a) through (e) are collectively referred to herein as the "".
Opinion Documents
We have not independently established the validity of the foregoing assumptions.
                    "" means the federal law of the United States of America, and the law of the State of New York (including the rules or regulations promulgated thereunder or pursuant thereto), that a New York lawyer exercising customary professional diligence would reasonably be expected to recognize as being applicable to the Company, the Opinion Documents or the transactions governed by the Opinion Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing definition of Generally Applicable Law, the term "Generally Applicable Law" does not include any law, rule or regulation that is applicable to the Company, the Opinion Documents or such transactions solely because such law, rule or regulation is part of a regulatory regime applicable to any party to any of the Opinion Documents or any of its affiliates due to the specific assets or business of such party or such affiliate.
Generally Applicable Law
          Based upon the foregoing and upon such other investigation as we have deemed necessary and subject to the qualifications set forth below, we are of the opinion that:
          This opinion letter is rendered to you in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Opinion Documents. This opinion letter may not be relied upon by you for any other purpose without our prior written consent.
          This opinion letter speaks only as of the date hereof. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to advise you of any development or circumstance of any kind, including any change of law or fact, that may occur after the date of this opinion letter that might affect the opinions expressed herein.
EXHIBIT C-2
To the Holders listed in Schedule I to the Note Exchange Agreement referred to below
and
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          You have requested me, as General Counsel Corporate of Legg Mason, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the ""), to render my opinion in connection with the repurchase by the Company of its 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (the "") pursuant to the Note Exchange Agreement, dated as of [               ], 20[    ], (the ""), among the Company and each of you. In consideration for the repurchase of the Notes and the Termination, the Company shall issue to the Holders warrants (the "") to purchase shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company (the ""). This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 6.1(h) of the Note Exchange Agreement. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Note Exchange Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Company
Notes
Note Exchange Agreement
Warrants
Common Stock
          In my capacity as General Counsel Corporate of the Company, I have examined the Note Exchange Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of [               ], 20[    ], between the Company and KKR I-L Limited (the ""), the Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement, dated as of [               ], 20[    ], between the Company and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (the ""), the Warrant Agreement, dated as of [               ], 20[    ] (the "") and the Warrants, originals, or copies identified to my satisfaction, of such corporate records of the Company, certificates of public officials, officers of the Company and other persons, and such other documents, agreements and instruments as I have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions hereinafter expressed. In my examinations, I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of the originals of the documents submitted to me and the conformity to authentic originals of all documents submitted to me as copies. As to factual matters, I have relied upon the truthfulness of the representations of the Company made in the documents discussed above and in certificates of public officials and officers of the Company.
Registration Rights Agreement
Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement
Warrant Agreement
          My opinions set forth herein are limited to the federal securities laws of the United States of America and the Maryland General Corporation Law, and I do not express any opinion herein concerning any other law or any other matter not expressly addressed below.
          Based upon and subject to the foregoing, I am of the opinion that:
          I am furnishing this opinion solely for your benefit. This opinion may not be relied upon by any other person without my express written consent. Copies of this opinion may not be furnished to any other person, nor may any portion of this opinion be quoted, circulated or referred to in any other document, except as may be required pursuant to applicable law. This opinion letter speaks only as of the date hereof. I expressly disclaim any responsibility to advise you of any development or circumstance of any kind, including any change of law or fact, that may occur after the date of this opinion letter that might affect the opinions expressed herein.
EXHIBIT D
[               ], 20[    ]
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. 9 West 57 Street New York, NY 10019
th
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Reference is made to that certain letter agreement (the "") dated as of January 14, 2008 between Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. ("") and Legg Mason, Inc. (""). In connection with the acquisition by one or more affiliates of KKR (the "") of warrants (the "") to purchase shares of LM's common stock, par value $0.10 per share (""), having the terms set forth in the warrant agreement dated as of [          ], 20[    ] (the ""), and as a condition to LM's execution of the Note Exchange Agreement of even date herewith (the ""), LM and KKR hereby enter into this letter agreement (this "") amending and restating the Standstill Agreement as follows.
Standstill Agreement
KKR
LM
Transaction
Warrants
Common Stock
Warrant Agreement
Note Exchange Agreement
Agreement
          KKR agrees, during the period (the "") from the date hereof until such time as neither KKR nor any of its affiliates beneficially owns or Owns any Warrants or a number of shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of any Warrants that exceeds 4.9% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, that it and its Representatives will not, directly or indirectly, unless consented to in advance by the Chief Executive Officer or the lead independent director of LM: (a) effect or seek, offer or propose (whether publicly or otherwise) to effect, or announce any intention to effect or cause or participate in or in any way assist, facilitate or encourage any other Person to effect or seek, offer or propose (whether publicly or otherwise) to effect or participate in, (i) any acquisition of any securities (or beneficial ownership thereof), or rights or options to acquire any securities (or beneficial ownership thereof), or any assets, indebtedness or businesses of LM or any of its affiliates, , that KKR and its affiliates may acquire beneficial ownership or Ownership of (A) any or all of the Warrants issuable by LM pursuant to the Note Exchange Agreement, (B) any shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of Warrants pursuant to the terms of the Warrant Agreement or upon the conversion of any 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 of LM (the "") issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of January 31, 2008, between The Bank of New York, as trustee, and LM (the ""), (C) shares of Common Stock that KKR or its affiliates acquire from LM in connection with any stock split or subdivision of common shares of LM that are already held by them at the time of such acquisition, (D) shares of capital stock of LM (other than Common Stock), evidences of LM's indebtedness or other assets or property or rights, or warrants to acquire shares of capital stock of LM or other securities, in each case, that KKR or its affiliates acquire from LM pursuant to the Warrant Agreement or the Indenture in connection with any distribution thereof by LM to holders of the Common Stock and (E) any securities of LM, or rights or options to acquire any securities of LM, to the extent reasonably estimated to
Standstill Period
provided, however
Convertible Notes
Indenture
reduce or close out any short position or "put equivalent position" (within the meaning of Rule 16a-1 under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "")) effected to monetize or hedge any Warrants or Convertible Notes that are Owned or beneficially owned by KKR or any of its affiliates, (ii) any tender or exchange offer, consolidation, business combination, acquisition, merger, joint venture or other business combination involving LM, any of its affiliates or any of the assets of LM or its affiliates, (iii) any recapitalization, stock dividend, restructuring, liquidation, dissolution or other extraordinary transaction with respect to LM or any of its affiliates or (iv) any "solicitation" of "proxies" (as such terms are used in the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission) to vote any voting securities of LM or any of its affiliates or consents to any action from any holder of any voting securities of LM or any of its affiliates or seek to advise or influence any Person with respect to the voting of or the granting of any consent with respect to any voting securities of LM; (b) form, join or in any way participate in a "group" (as defined under the Exchange Act) in connection with the voting securities of LM or otherwise act in concert with any person in respect of any such securities; (c) otherwise act, alone or in concert with others, to seek representation on or to control or influence the management, board of directors or policies of LM or to obtain representation on the board of directors of LM or any committee thereof; (d) enter into any discussions or arrangements with any third party with respect to any of the foregoing; (e) request that LM or any of its Representatives amend or waive any provision of this Agreement, or make any public announcement with respect to the restrictions of this Agreement, or take any action which would reasonably be expected to require LM to make a public announcement regarding any potential transaction; or (f) advise, assist or encourage, or direct any Person to advise, assist or encourage any other Person or Persons, in connection with any of the foregoing.
Exchange Act
          The restrictions set forth herein will not apply as to KKR and its affiliates if any of the following occurs:
                    (i) a third party who is not an affiliate of KKR (a "") acquires beneficial ownership of 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock; or
Third Party
                    (ii) LM enters into an agreement pursuant to which a Third Party would acquire all or substantially all of the stock or assets of LM or LM would be merged or consolidated with another Person, unless immediately following the consummation of such transaction the stockholders of LM immediately prior to the consummation of such transaction would continue to hold (in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of LM's voting stock immediately prior to the transaction) more than 50% of all of the outstanding common stock or other securities entitled to vote for the election of directors of the surviving or resulting entity in such transaction or any direct or indirect parent thereof; that this clause shall not be applicable after such agreement is terminated.
provided
          As used in this Agreement, the term "" shall be broadly interpreted to include, without limitation, the media and any individual, corporation, company, partnership, limited liability company, or other entity or group. As used in this Agreement, the term "" shall mean any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediates, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person; the term "" shall mean, collectively, a party's directors, officers, affiliates, employees or consultants, to the extent they are acting on such party's behalf; the term ""
Person
affiliate
Representatives
beneficial ownership
or variations thereof, when used with respect to securities, means such term as used in any of Section 13(d) or Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and the terms "" and "", when used with respect to securities, shall mean bearing all or substantially all economic risk of loss or appreciation (less no more than a fixed or floating interest rate return) in the value of, and any profit (less no more than a fixed or floating interest rate return) derived from a transaction in, such securities.
Ownership
Own
          Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, except as provided in this paragraph, this Agreement shall not apply to affiliates of KKR that are Non-Investor Affiliates. "" are affiliates of KKR (x) whose business is distinct from private equity and (y) whose investments, investment strategy and related activity (including any investments, investment strategy or related activity with respect to the Common Stock) are not executed, developed, directed or undertaken by KKR or its affiliates or their respective Representatives (other than Non-Investor Affiliates or their Representatives). If non-public, proprietary information with respect to LM is made available to a Non-Investor Affiliate or its Representative (other than to compliance personnel for compliance purposes only) by KKR or its affiliates (other than Non-Investor Affiliates) (such a situation, a ""), then this Agreement shall apply to such Non-Investor Affiliate without regard to the first sentence of this paragraph. At all times during the Standstill Period, for so long as a Wall Cross has not occurred with respect to a Non-Investor Affiliate:
Non-Investor Affiliates
Wall Cross
                    (i) Such Non-Investor Affiliate shall be permitted to acquire shares of Common Stock and securities exchangeable or exercisable for, or convertible into, shares of Common Stock (collectively, "") only (A) in an amount (together with the Common Equity Owned or beneficially owned (determined without aggregation with any affiliate of KKR that is not a Non-Investor Affiliate) by all other Non-Investor Affiliates) up to 4.9% of the then outstanding shares of Common Stock (including, with respect to an acquisition of exchangeable, exercisable or convertible securities, the shares of Common Stock issuable upon exchange, exercise or conversion thereof), and (B) if such Non-Investor Affiliate is able to make the passive investor certification specified in clause (i) of the proviso of Rule 13d-1(b)(1) under the Exchange Act with respect to the acquisition of such Common Equity.
Common Equity
                    (ii) If such Non-Investor Affiliate is unable to make such passive investor certification, then such Non-Investor Affiliate shall not (A) acquire any Common Equity or (B) initiate any proposal for a transaction or action that would be prohibited pursuant to clause (a)(ii), (a)(iii) or (a)(iv) of the second paragraph of this Agreement if such transaction were effected, or such action were taken, by KKR.
          The terms of this Agreement may be modified or waived only by a separate writing signed by LM and KKR that expressly modifies or waives any such term.
          It is understood and agreed that no failure or delay by LM in exercising any right, power or privilege under this Agreement shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any right, power or privilege under this Agreement.
          This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
          Subject to applicable law, each party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and of the United States of America, in each case located in the County of New York in the State of New York, for any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and (ii) agrees not to commence any action, suit or proceeding relating thereto except in such courts. Subject to applicable law, each party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) waives any objection to the laying of venue of any action, suit or proceeding arising out of this Agreement or the Transaction, in the courts of the State of New York and of the United States of America, in each case located in the County of New York in the State of New York, and (ii) waives and agrees not to plead or claim that any such action, suit or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
          KKR acknowledges that LM would be irreparably injured by a breach of this Agreement by KKR, that monetary remedies would be inadequate to protect LM against any actual or threatened breach or continuation of any breach of this Agreement, and, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to LM, KKR agrees to the granting of equitable relief, including injunctive relief and specific performance, in LM's favor without proof of actual damages in the event of KKR's actual or threatened breach of this Agreement.
          In the event of an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by LM and KKR and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provisions of this Agreement. Further, if any term or provision of this Agreement, or any application thereof to any particular set of facts or circumstances, shall, to any extent and for any reason, be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement, or the application of such term or provision to facts or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby and shall be construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision had to such extent never been contained herein and each term and provision of this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
          This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts which, when taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Confirmed and agreed to as of the date first written above:


