ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Language Regarding Forward Looking Statements Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K that are not historical factual statements are "forward looking statements." We intend to have our forward looking statements covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and include this statement for purposes of complying with those provisions. Forward looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our and our officers intent, belief or expectations as identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "project," "expect," "believe," "intend," "anticipate," "seek," "forecast," "plan," "estimate," "could," "would," "should" and other comparable and derivative terms or the negatives thereof. In addition, we, through our officers, from time to time, make forward looking oral and written public statements concerning our expected future operations, strategies, securities offerings, growth and investment opportunities, dispositions, capital structure changes, budgets and other developments. Readers are cautioned that, while forward looking statements reflect our good faith belief and reasonable assumptions based upon current information, we can give no assurance that our expectations or forecasts will be attained. Therefore, readers should be mindful that forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. As more fully set forth in Part I, Item 1A., "Risk Factors" in this report, factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations contained in the forward looking statements include: (a)Changes in national and local economic conditions, including a prolonged period of weak economic growth; (b)Continued volatility in the capital markets, including changes in interest rates and the availability and cost of capital; (c)The ability of the Company to manage its indebtedness level and changes in the terms of such indebtedness; (d)Changes in federal, state or local laws and regulations, including those affecting the healthcare industry that affect our costs of compliance or increase the costs, or otherwise affect the operations of our operators, tenants and borrowers; (e)The potential impact of future litigation matters, including the possibility of larger than expected litigation costs, adverse results and related developments; (f)Competition for tenants and borrowers, including with respect to new leases and mortgages and the renewal or rollover of existing leases; (g)The ability of the Company to negotiate the same or better terms with new tenants or operators if existing leases are not renewed or the Company exercises its right to replace an existing operator or tenant upon default; (h)Availability of suitable properties to acquire at favorable prices and the competition for the acquisition and financing of those properties; (i)The financial, legal, regulatory and reputational difficulties of significant operators of our properties; (j)The risk that we may not be able to achieve the benefits of investments within expected time frames or at all, or within expected cost projections; (k)The ability to obtain financing necessary to consummate acquisitions on favorable terms; (l)Changes in the reimbursement available to our operators, tenants and borrowers by governmental or private payors (including the July 2011 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 36 Table of Contents Services (CMS) final rule reducing Medicare skilled nursing facility (SNF) Prospective Payment System (PPS) payments in FY 2012 by 11.1% compared to FY 2011) and other potential changes in Medicare and Medicaid payment levels, which, among other effects, could negatively impact the value of our approximate 10% equity interest in the operations of HCR ManorCare; (m)The risks associated with the Companys investments in joint ventures and unconsolidated entities, including its lack of sole decision making authority and its reliance on its joint venture partners financial condition and continued cooperation; (n)The ability of our operators, tenants and borrowers to conduct their respective businesses in a manner sufficient to maintain or increase their revenues and to generate sufficient income to make rent and loan payments to us and our ability to recover investments made, if applicable, in their operations; and (o)The financial weakness of some operators and tenants, including potential bankruptcies and downturns in their businesses, which results in uncertainties regarding our ability to continue to realize the full benefit of such operators and or tenants leases. Except as required by law, we undertake no, and hereby disclaim any, obligation to update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, changed circumstances or otherwise. The information set forth in this Item 7 is intended to provide readers with an understanding of our financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations. We will discuss and provide our analysis in the following order: Executive Summary 2011 Transaction Overview Dividends Critical Accounting Policies Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Non GAAP Financial Measure Funds from Operations Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Contractual Obligations Inflation Recent Accounting Pronouncements Executive Summary We are a self administered REIT that, together with our unconsolidated joint ventures, invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the U.S. We acquire, develop, lease, manage and dispose of healthcare real estate and provide financing to healthcare providers. At December 31, 2011, our portfolio of investments, including properties owned by our Investment Management Platform, consisted of interests in 1,010 facilities. Our business strategy is based on three principles: (i) opportunistic investing, (ii) portfolio diversification, and (iii) conservative financing. We actively redeploy capital from investments with lower return potential into assets with higher return potential. We make investments where the 37 Table of Contents expected risk adjusted return exceeds our cost of capital and strive to capitalize on our operator, tenant and other business relationships to grow our business. Our strategy contemplates acquiring and developing properties on terms that are favorable to us. Generally, we prefer larger, more complex private transactions that leverage our management teams experience and our infrastructure. We follow a disciplined approach to enhancing the value of our existing portfolio, including ongoing evaluation of potential disposition of properties that no longer fit our strategy. We primarily generate revenue by leasing healthcare properties under long term leases with fixed or inflation indexed escalators. Most of our rents and other earned income from leases are received under triple net leases or leases that provide for substantial recovery of operating expenses; however, some of our medical office and life science leases are structured as gross or modified gross leases. Accordingly, for such MOBs and life science facilities we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance. Our growth for these assets depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing rental rates and occupancy levels; (ii) maximize tenant recoveries given underlying lease structures; and (iii) control operating and other expenses. Our operations are impacted by property specific, market specific, general economic and other conditions. At December 31, 2011, the contractual maturities in our portfolio of leased assets were 12% through 2014 (measured in dollars of expiring rents). Access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital and ability to refinance maturing indebtedness, as well as to fund future acquisitions and development through the issuance of additional securities or secured debt. Access to external capital on favorable terms is critical to the success of our strategy. 2011 Transaction Overview HCP Ventures II Purchase On January 14, 2011, we acquired our partners 65% interest in a joint venture that owns 25 senior housing facilities, becoming the sole owner of the portfolio. In connection with the closing of this acquisition, we paid approximately $136 million for the interest and assumed our partners share of $650 million of Fannie Mae secured debt with a weighted average fixed rate of 5.66% and weighted average maturity of 5.3 years. At closing, we valued the joint ventures assets at approximately $850 million. The consolidation of HCP Ventures II on January 14, 2011 resulted in a gain of $8 million, which represents the fair value of our 35% interest in excess of our carrying value on the acquisition date. Genesis Debt Investment Early Payoff On April 1, 2011, we received $330.4 million from the early repayment of our debt investments in Genesis HealthCare ("Genesis"). In conjunction with this early repayment, we recognized additional interest income of $34.8 million, which represents the unamortized discount and termination fee. These debt investments were acquired in September and October 2010 for $290 million. HCR ManorCare Acquisition On April 7, 2011, we completed our acquisition of substantially all of the real estate assets of privately owned HCR ManorCare, Inc., for a purchase price of $6.1 billion, for which we replaced the stock consideration to the seller valued at $33.14 per share with cash. We acquired 334 post acute, skilled nursing and assisted living facilities located in 30 states, with the highest concentrations in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Florida, Illinois and Michigan. A wholly owned subsidiary of HCR ManorCare operates 38 Table of Contents the facilities pursuant to a long term, triple net master lease agreement supported by a guaranty from HCR ManorCare. Additionally, we exercised our option to purchase an interest in the operations of HCR ManorCare for $95 million that represented a 9.9% equity interest at closing. Strategic Venture With Brookdale Senior Living On September 1, 2011, we completed a strategic venture with Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. ("Brookdale") that includes 37 HCP owned senior living communities previously leased to or operated by Horizon Bay Retirement Living ("Horizon Bay"). As part of this transaction, Brookdale acquired Horizon Bay and: (i) assumed an existing triple net lease for nine of our communities; (ii) entered into a new triple net lease related to four of our communities; (iii) assumed Horizon Bays management of three of our communities, one of which was recently developed by HCP; and (iv) entered into management contracts and a joint venture agreement for a 10% interest in the real estate and operations for 21 of our communities in a structure permitted by RIDEA; these 21 communities were acquired in January 2011 as part of our purchase of HCP Ventures II discussed above. Other Investment Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2011, we made investments of $300 million as follows: (i) acquired four life science facilities for approximately $67 million, including assumed debt of $48 million; (ii) acquired a medical office building for approximately $31 million; (iii) acquired the 20 acre parcel of land situated at the gateway of South San Francisco for $65 million; (iv) acquired a life science development project for $10 million, and (v) funded construction and other capital projects of $127 million, primarily in our life science and medical office segments. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we executed commitments to fund $101 million of senior housing development. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we sold three senior housing facilities for $19 million, recognizing gain on sales of real estate of $3.1 million. Financings During the year ended December 31, 2011, in connection with prefunding the HCR ManorCare Acquisition, we completed $3.7 billion in debt and common stock offerings as follows: On January 24, 2011, we issued $2.4 billion of senior unsecured notes as follows: (i) $400 million of 2.70% notes due 2014; (ii) $500 million of 3.75% notes due 2016; (iii) $1.2 billion of 5.375% notes due 2021; and (iv) $300 million of 6.75% notes due 2041. The notes have a weighted average maturity of 10.3 years and a weighted average yield of 4.83%; net proceeds from the offering were $2.37 billion. In March 2011, we completed a $1.273 billion public offering of 34.5 million shares of common stock; net proceeds from the offering were $1.235 billion. On March 11, 2011, we entered into a new $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that replaced the existing facility, which was scheduled to mature in August 2011. Our new facility has a four year term with a one year committed extension option. Based on HCPs current credit ratings, the facility bears interest at LIBOR plus 150 basis points and has a facility fee of 30 basis points. We have the right to increase the commitments under the new facility by an aggregate amount of up to $500 million, subject to customary conditions. Litigation On November 9, 2011, we entered into an agreement with Ventas, Inc. to settle all remaining claims relating to Ventass litigation against HCP arising out of Ventass 2007 acquisition of Sunrise Senior Living REIT. We paid $125 million to Ventas and incurred a charge during the quarter ended 39 Table of Contents December 31, 2011 for the amount paid. This payment is in addition to the $102.8 million paid to Ventas in August 2011 resulting from the 2009 jury verdict, which was previously accrued in 2009. Dividends Quarterly dividends paid during 2011 aggregated $1.92 per share, which represents a 3.2% increase from 2010. On January 26, 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly common stock cash dividend of $0.50 per share. The common stock dividend will be paid on February 22, 2012 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 6, 2012. Based on the first quarters dividend, the annualized rate of distribution for 2012 is $2.00, compared with $1.92, which represents a 4.2% increase. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") requires our management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. We base estimates on our experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions or other matters had been different, it is possible that different accounting would have been applied, resulting in a different presentation of our consolidated financial statements. From time to time, we re evaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or assumptions prove to be different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. For a more detailed discussion of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Below is a discussion of accounting policies that we consider critical in that they may require complex judgment in their application or require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of HCP, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures that we control, through voting rights or other means. We consolidate investments in variable interest entities ("VIEs") when we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE at: (i) the inception of the variable interest entity, (ii) as a result of a change in circumstance identified during our continuous review of our VIE relationships or (iii) upon the occurrence of a qualifying reconsideration event. We make judgments with respect to our level of influence or control of an entity and whether we are (or are not) the primary beneficiary of a VIE. Consideration of various factors includes, but is not limited to, our ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance, our form of ownership interest, our representation on the entitys governing body, the size and seniority of our investment, our ability and the rights of other investors to participate in policy making decisions, replace the manager and or liquidate the entity, if applicable. Our ability to correctly assess our influence or control over an entity when determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE affects the presentation of these entities in our consolidated financial statements. If we perform a primary beneficiary analysis at a date other than at inception of the variable interest entity, our assumptions may be different and may result in the identification of a different primary beneficiary. If we determine that we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, our consolidated financial statements would include the operating results of the VIE (either tenant or borrower) rather than the results of the variable interest in the VIE. We would depend on the VIE to provide us timely financial 40 Table of Contents information and rely on the internal control of the VIE to provide accurate financial information. If the VIE has deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting, or does not provide us with timely financial information, this may adversely impact the quality and or timing of our financial reporting and our internal control over financial reporting. Revenue Recognition We recognize rental revenue on a straight line basis over the lease term when collectibility is reasonably assured and the tenant has taken possession or controls the physical use of the leased asset. For assets acquired subject to leases, we recognize revenue upon acquisition of the asset provided the tenant has taken possession or controls the physical use of the leased asset. If the lease provides for tenant improvements, we determine whether the tenant improvements, for accounting purposes, are owned by the tenant or us. When we are the owner of the tenant improvements, the tenant is not considered to have taken physical possession or have control of the physical use of the leased asset until the tenant improvements are substantially completed. When the tenant is the owner of the tenant improvements, any tenant improvement allowance funded is treated as a lease incentive and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the lease term. The determination of ownership of the tenant improvements is subject to significant judgment. If our assessment of the owner of the tenant improvements for accounting purposes were to change, the timing and amount of our revenue recognized would be impacted. Certain leases provide for additional rents contingent upon a percentage of the facilitys revenue in excess of specified base amounts or other thresholds. Such revenue is recognized when actual results reported by the tenant, or estimates of tenant results, exceed the base amount or other thresholds. The recognition of additional rents requires us to make estimates of amounts owed and to a certain extent are dependent on the accuracy of the facility results reported to us. Our estimates may differ from actual results, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts, including an allowance for straight line rent receivables, for estimated losses resulting from tenant defaults or the inability of tenants to make contractual rent and tenant recovery payments. We monitor the liquidity and creditworthiness of our tenants and operators on an ongoing basis. This evaluation considers industry and economic conditions, property performance, credit enhancements and other factors. For straight line rent amounts, our assessment is based on income recoverable over the term of the lease. We exercise judgment in establishing allowances and consider payment history and current credit status in developing these estimates. These estimates may differ from actual results, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Loans receivable are classified as held for investment based on managements intent and ability to hold the loans for the foreseeable future or to maturity. We recognize interest income on loans, including the amortization of discounts and premiums, using the interest method applied on a loan by loan basis when collectibility of the future payments is reasonably assured. Premiums, discounts and related costs are recognized as yield adjustments over the life of the related loans. We use the direct finance method of accounting to record income from DFLs. For leases accounted for as DFLs, future minimum lease payments are recorded as a receivable. The difference between the future minimum lease payments and the estimated residual values less the cost of the properties is recorded as unearned income. Unearned income is deferred and amortized to income over the lease terms to provide a constant yield when collectibility of the lease payments is reasonably assured. Investments in DFLs are presented net of unamortized unearned income. Loans and DFLs are placed on non accrual status at such time as management determines that collectibility of contractual amounts is not reasonably assured. While on non accrual status, loans or DFLs are either accounted for on a cash basis, in which income is recognized only upon receipt of 41 Table of Contents cash, or on a cost recovery basis, in which all cash receipts reduce the carrying value of the loan or DFL, based on managements judgment of collectibility. Allowances are established for loans and DFLs based upon a probable loss estimate for individual loans and DFLs deemed to be impaired. Loans and DFLs are impaired when it is deemed probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due on a timely basis in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan or lease. Determining the adequacy of the allowance is complex and requires significant judgment by us about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The allowance is based upon our assessment of the borrowers or lessees overall financial condition, resources and payment record; the prospects for support from any financially responsible guarantors; and, if appropriate, the realizable value of any collateral. These estimates consider all available evidence including, as appropriate, the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans or DFLs effective interest rate, the fair value of collateral, general economic conditions and trends, historical and industry loss experience, and other relevant factors. While our assumptions are based in part upon historical data, our estimates may differ from actual results, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Real Estate We make estimates as part of our allocation of the purchase price of acquisitions to the various components of the acquisition based upon the relative fair value of each component. The most significant components of our allocations are typically the allocation of fair value to the buildings as if vacant, land and in place leases. In the case of the fair value of buildings and the allocation of value to land and other intangibles, our estimates of the values of these components will affect the amount of depreciation and amortization we record over the estimated useful life of the property acquired or the remaining lease term. In the case of the value of in place leases, we make our best estimates based on our evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenants lease. Factors considered include estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease up periods, market conditions and costs to execute similar leases. Our assumptions affect the amount of future revenue that we will recognize over the remaining lease term for the acquired in place leases. A variety of costs are incurred in the development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of judgment. The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes and other costs incurred during the period of development. We consider a construction project as substantially completed and held available for occupancy and cease capitalization of costs upon the completion of the related tenant improvements. Impairment of Long Lived Assets and Goodwill We assess the carrying value of our real estate assets and related intangibles ("real estate assets"), whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Recoverability of real estate assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset or asset group to the respective estimated future undiscounted cash flows. In order to review our real estate assets for recoverability, we consider market conditions, as well as our intent with respect to holding or disposing of the asset. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals, where considered necessary. If our analysis indicates that the carrying value of the real estate asset is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, we recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the real estate asset. 42 Table of Contents Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. If it is determined, based on certain qualitative factors, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we apply the two step approach. Certain qualitative factors assessed by us include current macroeconomic conditions, state of the equity and capital markets and the overall financial and operating performance of HCP. If we qualitatively determine that it is more likely than not the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount the two step approach is necessary. If the fair value of a reporting unit containing goodwill is less than its carrying value, then the second step of the test is needed to measure the amount of potential goodwill impairment. The second step requires the fair value of a reporting unit to be allocated to all the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination at the date of the impairment test. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the fair value of assets and liabilities is the implied value of goodwill and is used to determine the amount of impairment. We estimate the current fair value of the assets and liabilities in the reporting unit through various valuation techniques, including applying capitalization rates to segment net operating income, quoted market values and third party appraisals, as necessary. The fair value of the reporting unit may also include an allocation of an enterprise value premium that we estimate a third party would be willing to pay for the company. The determination of the fair value of real estate assets and goodwill involves significant judgment. This judgment is based on our analysis and estimates of fair value of real estate assets and reporting units, and the future operating results and resulting cash flows of each real estate asset whose carrying amount may not be recoverable. Our ability to accurately predict future operating results and cash flows and estimate and allocate fair values impacts the timing and recognition of impairments. While we believe our assumptions are reasonable, changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on our financial results. Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures Investments in entities which we do not consolidate but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method of accounting, our share of the investees earnings or losses are included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures is based on the amount paid to purchase the joint venture interest or the carrying value of the assets prior to the sale of interests in the joint venture. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the fair value of the equity method investment to our carrying value. If we determine a decline in the fair value of our investment in an unconsolidated joint venture is below its carrying value is other than temporary, an impairment is recorded. The determination of the fair value and as to whether a deficiency in fair value is "other than temporary" of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures involves significant judgment. Our estimates consider all available evidence including, as appropriate, the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at market rates, general economic conditions and trends, severity and duration of the fair value deficiency, and other relevant factors. Capitalization rates, discount rates and credit spreads utilized in our valuation models are based upon rates that we believe to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for the respective investments. While we believe our assumptions are reasonable, changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on our financial results. Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to evaluate our compliance with REIT requirements. Our determinations are 43 Table of Contents based on interpretation of tax laws, and our conclusions may have an impact on the income tax expense recognized. Adjustments to income tax expense may be required as a result of: (i) audits conducted by federal, state and local tax authorities, (ii) our ability to qualify as a REIT, (iii) the potential for built in gain recognized related to prior tax free acquisitions of C corporations, and (iv) changes in tax laws. Adjustments required in any given period are included in income, other than adjustments to income tax liabilities acquired in business combinations, which are adjusted through goodwill. Results of Operations We evaluate our business and allocate resources among our five business segments: (i) senior housing, (ii) post acute/skilled nursing, (iii) life science, (iv) medical office and (v) hospital. Under the senior housing, life science, post acute/skilled nursing and hospital segments, we invest or co invest primarily in single operator or tenant properties, through the acquisition and development of real estate, management of operations and by debt issued by operators in these sectors. Under the medical office segment, we invest or co invest through the acquisition and development of MOBs that are leased under gross, modified gross or triple net leases, generally to multiple tenants, and which generally require a greater level of property management. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). On April 7, 2011, we completed our acquisition of substantially all of HCR ManorCares real estate assets; additionally, we purchased a noncontrolling equity interest in the operations of HCR ManorCare. On January 14, 2011, we acquired our partners 65% interest in HCP Ventures II that resulted in the consolidation of HCP Ventures II. On September 1, 2011, we entered into management contracts with Brookdale with respect to 21 senior living communities (these 21 communities were acquired in January 2011 as part of our purchase of HCP Ventures II discussed above) that are now in a RIDEA structure. Under the provisions of RIDEA, a REIT may lease "qualified health care properties" on an arms length basis to a TRS if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an "eligible independent contractor." For our 21 senior housing communities that are now managed by Brookdale that are in a RIDEA structure, the respective resident level revenues and related operating expenses are reported in our consolidated financial statements. See additional information regarding the HCR ManorCare Acquisition, HCP Ventures II purchase and the Brookdale RIDEA transaction in Notes 3, 8 and 12, respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The results of operations from our HCR ManorCare, HCP Ventures II and Brookdale transactions are reflected in our financial statements from those respective dates. Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2011 to the Year Ended December 31, 2010 Rental and related revenues. Year Ended December 31, Change Segments 2011 2010 $ % (dollars in thousands) Senior housing $ 378,141 $ 299,232 $ 78,909 26 % Post acute/skilled nursing 38,003 37,242 761 2 Life science 245,942 237,160 8,782 4 Medical office 272,949 262,854 10,095 4 Hospital 80,832 81,091 (259 ) NM (1) Total $ 1,015,867 $ 917,579 $ 98,288 11 % (1)Percentage change not meaningful. 44  Table of Contents Senior housing. The increase in senior housing rental and related revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily related to: (i) a $41.0 million increase as a result of the consolidation of HCP Ventures II on January 14, 2011 (see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information), (ii) a $25.8 million increase as a result of increased rental revenues related to the November 1, 2010 transition of 27 communities to Emeritus Corporation that were previously operated by Sunrise and (iii) the additive effects of our senior housing acquisitions during 2010 and other increases from rent escalations and resets. Life science. The increase in life science rental and related revenues was primarily the result of the additive effect of our life science facility acquisitions during 2010 and 2011. Medical office. The increase in medical office rental and related revenues was primarily the result of the additive effect of our MOB acquisitions during 2010 and 2011 and increases from rent escalations and resets. Resident fees and services. Resident fees and services for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily includes revenues from our 21 senior housing communities (consolidated as part of our HCP Ventures II purchase) that are in a RIDEA structure beginning on September 1, 2011 (see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). Resident fees and services for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes $32.6 million of revenues for 27 properties due to the consolidation of four variable interest entities from August 31, 2010 to November 1, 2010 (see Notes 12 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these VIEs). Income from direct financing leases. Income from DFLs increased for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily as a result of our HCR ManorCare Acquisition (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). Interest income. For the year ended December 31, 2011, interest income decreased $60.3 million to $99.9 million as a result of decreases in income due to the settlement of our HCR ManorCare debt investments in 2011, interest earned from marketable debt securities that were sold in 2010 and interest earned in 2010 from our Cirrus loan that was placed on non accrual status in 2011; these decreases were partially offset by $34.8 million of prepayment premiums and unamortized discounts recognized in April 2011 upon the early repayment of our loans to Genesis. For a more detailed description of our loan investments and marketable debt securities, see Notes 7 and 10, respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Investment management fee income. Investment management fee income decreased $2.6 million to $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily as a result of acquiring our partners 65% interest in HCP Ventures II on January 14, 2011, which resulted in the termination of the partnerships related management contracts. Depreciation and amortization expense. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $45.6 million to $356.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily related to: (i) a $36.6 million increase as a result of the consolidation of HCP Ventures II on January 14, 2011 and (ii) a $11.8 million increase from the additive effect of our other property acquisitions during 2010 and 2011. Interest expense. For the year ended December 31, 2011, interest expense increased $130.7 million to $419.3 million. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to a $110.5 million increase from our $2.4 billion senior unsecured notes offering in January 2011 as a result of prefunding activities from our HCR ManorCare Acquisition, the $11.3 million write off of unamortized loan fees related to an expired bridge loan commitment and the consolidation of HCP Ventures II on January 14, 2011 that included the consolidation of $635 million of mortgage debt, which increases were partially offset by 45 Table of Contents the impact of repayments of mortgage debt related to contractual maturities and senior unsecured notes during 2010 and 2011 and lower interest rates during 2011 when compared to 2010. Our exposure to expense fluctuations related to our variable rate indebtedness is partially mitigated by our variable rate investments. For a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in Item 7A. The table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): As of December 31,(1) 2011 2010 Balance: Fixed rate $ 7,166,349 $ 4,260,027 Variable rate 502,919 306,290 Total $ 7,669,268 $ 4,566,317 Percent of total debt: Fixed rate 93 % 93 % Variable rate 7 7 Total 100 % 100 % Weighted average interest rate at end of period: Fixed rate 5.83 % 6.35 % Variable rate 2.19 % 4.03 % Total weighted average rate 5.59 % 6.19 % (1)Excludes $88 million of other debt that represents non interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. Operating expenses. Year Ended December 31, Change Segments 2011 2010 $ % (dollars in thousands) Senior housing $ 34,546 $ 28,797 $ 5,749 20 % Post acute/skilled nursing 593 200 393 NM (1) Life science 52,796 48,492 4,304 9 Medical office 127,907 127,883 24 NM (1) Hospital 4,330 4,830 (500 ) (10 ) Total $ 220,172 $ 210,202 $ 9,970 5 % (1)Percentage change not meaningful. Operating expenses are generally related to MOB and life science properties where we incur the expenses and recover all or a portion of those expenses from the tenants and properties managed on our behalf (e.g., RIDEA properties). The presentation of expenses as operating or general and administrative is based on the underlying nature of the expense. Periodically, we review the classification of expenses between categories and make revisions based on changes in the underlying nature of the expenses. Senior housing. The increase in senior housing operating expenses was primarily the result of the operating expenses from 21 senior housing communities managed by Brookdale that are in a 46 Table of Contents RIDEA structure beginning September 1, 2011, which were partially offset by including facility level operating expenses in 2010 for 27 properties due to the consolidation of four variable interest entities from August 31, 2010 to November 1, 2010. Life science. The increase in life science operating expenses was primarily the result of the additive effect of our life science facility acquisitions during 2010 and 2011. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased $13.1 million to $96.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase in general and administrative expenses was a result of increases in acquisition costs, primarily attributable to our HCR ManorCare Acquisition and compensation related expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in legal fees associated with litigation matters (see the information set forth under the heading "Legal Proceedings" of Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Litigation settlement and provision. On November 9, 2011, we entered into an agreement with Ventas, Inc. to settle all remaining claims relating to Ventass litigation against us arising out of Ventass 2007 acquisition of Sunrise Senior Living REIT. As part of the settlement, we agreed to pay $125 million to Ventas, which resulted in a charge for the same amount (see the information set forth under the heading "Legal Proceedings" of Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). No similar charges were recognized during the year ended December 31, 2010. Impairments (recoveries). During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized an impairment of $15.4 million related to our Cirrus senior secured term loan as a result of concluding that the carrying value of this loan was in excess of the fair value of the related collateral supporting this loan (see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized aggregate income of $11.9 million, which represents impairment recoveries of portions of impairment charges in 2009 of investments related to Erickson Retirement Communities and its affiliate entities ("Erickson"). Erickson was the tenant at three of our senior housing CCRC DFLs and the borrower of a senior construction loan in which we had a participation interest (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Other income, net. For the year ended December 31, 2011, other income, net decreased $3.5 million to $12.3 million. The year ended December 31, 2011, included the net impact of the following: (i) a gain of $7.8 million resulting from our January 2011 acquisition of our partners 65% interest in and consolidation of HCP Ventures II, (ii) income of $5.7 million in connection with a litigation settlement in June 2011 for proceeds owed to the Company from a sale of assets, and (iii) a charge of $5.4 million for an other than temporary impairment of marketable equity securities. The year ended December 31, 2010 included gains on marketable securities of $14.5 million. Equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2011, equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures increased $42.0 million to $46.8 million. This increase was primarily a result of equity income from our nearly 10% partnership interest in HCR ManorCare, Inc. (see Notes 3 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information), partially offset by the impact of our consolidation of HCP Ventures II on January 14, 2011, which was previously accounted for as an equity method investment. Impairments of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized impairments of $71.7 million related to our 35% interest in HCP Ventures II, an unconsolidated joint venture that owns 25 senior housing properties previously leased by Horizon Bay (see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). No similar impairments were recognized during the year ended December 31, 2011. 47 Table of Contents Discontinued operations. Income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $4.2 million, compared to $23.7 million for the comparable period in 2010. The decrease is primarily due to a decrease in gains on real estate dispositions of $16.8 million and a decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $2.7 million. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we sold three properties for $19 million, compared to 14 properties for $56 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2010 to the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Rental and related revenues. Year Ended December 31, Change Segments 2010 2009 $ % (dollars in thousands) Senior housing $ 299,232 $ 286,010 $ 13,222 5 % Post acute/skilled nursing 37,242 36,585 657 2 Life science 237,160 214,134 23,026 11 Medical office 262,854 260,238 2,616 1 Hospital 81,091 79,372 1,719 2 Total $ 917,579 $ 876,339 $ 41,240 5 % Senior housing. The increase in senior housing rental and related revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily related to: (i) a $7.6 million increase as a result of improved rental revenues related to the transition of properties to new operators of 15 communities previously operated by Sunrise effective October 1, 2009; (ii) the additive effect of our acquisitions in 2010 and (iii) increases from rent escalations and resets. The increase in senior housing rental and related revenues above was partially offset by income of $6.4 million in 2009 resulting from a correction to the purchase price allocation of certain assets acquired in 2006. Life science. The increase in life science rental and related revenues was primarily the result of assets that were placed in service in 2010, which were previously under development. Resident fees and services. Resident fees and services for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes $32.6 million of revenues for 27 properties due to the consolidation of four VIEs from August 31, 2010 to November 1, 2010. No VIEs were consolidated or RIDEA structures were in place during 2009; therefore, no resident fees and services were recognized during the year ended December 31, 2009. Income from direct financing leases. Income from DFLs decreased $2.1 million to $49.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease was primarily due to three DFLs that were deemed to be substantially impaired during 2009 (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Interest income. For the year ended December 31, 2010, interest income increased $36.0 million to $160.2 million. The increase was primarily related to: (i) $30.4 million of additional interest earned from the purchase of a participation in the first mortgage debt of HCR ManorCare in August 2009, (ii) $11 million of prepayment penalty upon the early repayment of a mortgage loan that was secured by a hospital, and (iii) $8.0 million of additional income earned from the debt investments of Genesis purchased during 2010. These increases in interest income were partially offset by a $12.7 million decrease of interest earned from marketable debt securities that were sold in 2009 and 2010. For a more detailed description of our mezzanine loan and participation in the first mortgage debt of HCR ManorCare and Genesis, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 48 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization expense. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased $4.7 million to $311.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense is primarily the result of lower depreciation from assets that were fully depreciated in 2009 and 2010, partially offset by additional amortization expense from leasing costs and tenant and capital improvements expenditures that were incurred in 2009 and 2010, and increases due to our 2010 real estate acquisitions. Interest expense. For the year ended December 31, 2010, interest expense decreased $10.2 million to $288.7 million. The decrease was primarily due to the decrease of: (i) $5.8 million from the net impact of the repayment of mortgage debt related to contractual maturities, partially offset by secured debt financing obtained in connection with our purchase of a participation in the first mortgage debt of HCR ManorCare, (ii) $4.6 million resulting from the repayment of our bridge loan in May 2009 and term loan in March 2010, (iii) $2.9 million resulting from the repayment of $206 million of senior unsecured notes in 2010 and (iv) $1.7 million resulting from the benefit of an interest rate swap (pay float and receive fixed) that was placed on $250 million of our unsecured senior notes in June 2009. The decreases in interest expense were partially offset by a decrease of $4.3 million of capitalized interest related to assets under development in our life science segment that were placed in service during 2010. Our exposure to expense fluctuations related to our variable rate indebtedness is mitigated by our variable rate investments. For a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in Item 7A. The table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): As of December 31,(1) 2010 2009 Balance: Fixed rate $ 4,260,027 $ 4,595,199 Variable rate 306,290 972,427 Total $ 4,566,317 $ 5,567,626 Percent of total debt: Fixed rate 93 % 83 % Variable rate 7 17 Total 100 % 100 % Weighted average interest rate at end of period: Fixed rate 6.35 % 6.32 % Variable rate 4.03 % 2.47 % Total weighted average rate 6.19 % 5.65 % (1)Excludes $88 million of other debt that represents non interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. 49  Table of Contents Operating expenses. Year Ended December 31, Change Segments 2010 2009 $ % (dollars in thousands) Senior housing $ 28,797 $ 1,525 $ 27,272 NM (1) Post acute/skilled nursing 200 135 65 48 Life science 48,492 47,285 1,207 3 % Medical office 127,883 130,477 (2,594 ) (2 ) Hospital 4,830 3,874 956 25 Total $ 210,202 $ 183,296 $ 26,906 15 % (1)Percentage change not meaningful. Operating expenses are generally related to MOB and life science properties where we incur the expenses and recover all or a portion of those expenses from the tenants and properties managed on our behalf (e.g., RIDEA properties). The presentation of expenses as operating or general and administrative is based on the underlying nature of the expense. Periodically, we review the classification of expenses between categories and make revisions based on changes in the underlying nature of the expenses. The increase in operating expenses during the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily the result of including facility level expenses for 27 properties as a result of the consolidation of four VIEs from August 31, 2010 to November 1, 2010. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased $5.0 million to $83.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased costs related to acquisitions pursued in 2010, partially offset by a decrease in legal fees associated with litigation matters and lower professional fees (see the information set forth under the heading "Legal Proceedings" of Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Litigation settlement and provision. On September 4, 2009, a jury returned a verdict in favor of Ventas, Inc., in an action brought against us in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky for tortious interference with prospective business advantage in connection with Ventass 2007 acquisition of Sunrise REIT. The jury awarded Ventas approximately $102 million in compensatory damages, which we recorded as a litigation provision expense during 2009 (see the information set forth under the heading "Legal Proceedings" of Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). No similar charges were recognized during the year ended December 31, 2010. Impairments (recoveries). The year ended December 31, 2010 includes income of $11.9 million related to impairment recoveries of portions of previous impairment charges of investments related to Erickson. Erickson was the tenant at three of our senior housing CCRC DFLs and the borrower of a senior construction loan in which we had a participation interest. The year ended December 31, 2009 includes impairments of $75.5 million as a result of (i) an aggregate $63.1 million provision related to DFL and loan losses (impairment charges) related to the bankruptcy of Erickson who was the tenant at three of our senior housing CCRC DFLs and the borrower of a senior construction loan in which we had a participation interest (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), (ii) $5.9 million of intangible assets on 12 of 15 senior housing communities that were written off due to the termination of the Sunrise management agreements on 15 senior housing communities effective October 1, 2009, (iii) $4.3 million related to a senior secured term loan as a result of an expected restructuring of terms to the loan following the default of the borrower 50 Table of Contents in our hospital segment (see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), and (iv) $2.2 million related to intangible assets associated with the early termination of a lease in our life science segment. Other income, net. For the year ended December 31, 2010, other income, net increased $8.1 million to $15.8 million. The increase was primarily a result of: (i) increases in gains on sales of marketable securities of $5.5 million and (ii) a $1.4 million of other than temporary impairments of goodwill recognized in 2009. For a more detailed description of our marketable securities investments (see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Income taxes. Income taxes decreased $1.5 million to $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in income taxes is primarily due to the tax benefit resulting from the election of one of our former TRS to become a REIT in 2010. Equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2010, equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures increased $1.3 million to $4.8 million. This increase is primarily due to: (i) the recognition of additional rental revenues during 2010 from a life science tenant in one of our unconsolidated joint ventures that was previously deferred and (ii) a change in the expected useful life of certain intangible assets of one of our unconsolidated joint ventures that resulted in lower equity income due to higher amounts of amortization expense during 2009. These increases were partially offset by HCP Ventures IIs conclusion to cease recognizing non cash rental income (i.e., straight line rents) from Horizon Bay effective July 1, 2010, which resulted in lower earnings for, and our share of earnings from, HCP Ventures II during the year ended December 31, 2010. Impairments of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized impairments of $71.7 million related to our 35% interest in HCP Ventures II, an unconsolidated joint venture that owns 25 senior housing properties previously leased by Horizon Bay. No impairments of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures were recognized during the year ended December 31, 2009. Discontinued operations. Income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $23.7 million, compared to $43.5 million for the comparable period in 2009. The decrease is primarily due to a decrease in gains on real estate dispositions of $17.4 million and a decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $2.6 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we sold 14 properties for $56 million, compared to 14 properties for $72 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal liquidity needs are to: (i) fund recurring operating expenses, (ii) meet debt service requirements, including $250 million of senior unsecured notes and $67 million of mortgage debt principal payments and maturities in 2012, (iii) fund capital expenditures, including tenant improvements and leasing costs, (iv) fund acquisition and development activities, and (v) make dividend distributions. We believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flows generated by operations and from our various financing activities during the next twelve months. During the year ended December 31, 2011, distributions to shareholders and noncontrolling interest holders exceeded cash flows from operations by approximately $79 million. During 2011, we utilized the funds available under our revolving line of credit facility, which borrowings, among other things, were the sources of cash used to fund the excess of distributions to shareholders and noncontrolling interest holders above cash flows from operations. Access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital and ability to refinance maturing indebtedness, as well as our ability to fund future acquisitions and development through the issuance of additional securities or secured debt. Credit ratings impact our ability to access capital and directly impact our cost of capital as well. For example, as noted below, our revolving line of credit facility 51 Table of Contents accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to LIBOR plus a margin that depends upon our debt ratings. We also pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment that depends upon our debt ratings. As of January 31, 2011, we had a credit rating of Baa2 (stable) from Moodys, BBB (positive) from S&P and BBB+ (stable) from Fitch on our senior unsecured debt securities, and Baa3 (stable) from Moodys, BB+ (positive) from S&P and BBB (stable) from Fitch on our preferred equity securities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $724 million and $580 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in operating cash flows is primarily the result of the following: (i) the additive impact of our acquisitions in 2010 and 2011, (ii) assets placed in service in 2010 and 2011 and (iii) rent escalations and resets in 2010 and 2011. These increases were partially offset by $227 million in payments relating to the Ventas litigation. Our cash flows from operations are dependent upon the occupancy level of multi tenant buildings, rental rates on leases, our tenants performance on their lease obligations, the level of operating expenses and other factors. Net cash used by investing activities was $4.6 billion and $431 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 principally reflects the net effects of: (i) $4.0 billion used for our HCR ManorCare Acquisition; (ii) $370 million used for investments in loans receivable, (iii) $198 million used for acquisition and development of other real estate, (iv) $136 million used in the acquisition of our partners 65% interest in HCP Ventures II, (v) $95 million used to purchase a noncontrolling equity interest in the operations of HCR ManorCare PropCo and (vi) $53 million used for leasing costs and tenant and capital improvements, which were partially offset by $304 million received from the repayments from our investments in loans receivable. Net cash provided by financing activities was $2.9 billion and $775 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 consisted primarily of: (i) the issuance of senior unsecured notes of $2.4 billion, (ii) net proceeds of $1.3 billion from the issuances of common stock and exercise of stock options and (iii) net borrowings of $454 million from our revolving line of credit facility. The amount of cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by: (i) payments of common and preferred dividends aggregating $788 million, (ii) repayment of senior unsecured notes of $292 million, (iii) repayment of mortgage debt of $170 million, (iv) debt issuance costs of $44 million and (v) the purchase of noncontrolling interests of $34 million. Debt Bank line of credit. Our revolving line of credit facility provides for an aggregate borrowing capacity of $1.5 billion and matures on March 11, 2015, with a one year committed extension option. We have the right to increase the commitments under the revolving line of credit facility by an aggregate amount of up to $500 million, subject to customary conditions. Borrowings under this revolving line of credit facility accrue interest at a rate per annum equal to LIBOR plus a margin that depends on our debt ratings. We pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment that depends upon our debt ratings. Based on our debt ratings at December 31, 2011, the margin on the revolving line of credit facility was 1.50% and the facility fee was 0.30%. At December 31, 2011, we had $454 million outstanding under this revolving line of credit facility with a weighted average effective interest rate of 2.26%. Our revolving line of credit facility contains certain financial restrictions and other customary requirements. Among other things, these covenants, using terms defined in the agreement, (i) limit the ratio of Consolidated Total Indebtedness to Consolidated Total Asset Value to 60%, (ii) limit the ratio of Secured Debt to Consolidated Total Asset Value to 30%, (iii) limit the ratio of Unsecured Debt to Consolidated Unencumbered Asset Value to 60%, (iv) require a minimum Fixed Charge Coverage ratio 52 Table of Contents of 1.5 times, and (v) require a formula determined Minimum Consolidated Tangible Net Worth of $8.0 billion at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with each of these restrictions and requirements of our revolving line of credit facility. Our revolving line of credit facility also contains cross default provisions to other indebtedness of ours, including in some instances, certain mortgages on our properties. Certain mortgages contain default provisions relating to defaults under the leases or operating agreements on the applicable properties by our operators or tenants, including default provisions relating to the bankruptcy filings of such operator or tenant. Although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements if a default as described above occurs, such a default may result in significantly less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, material delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. Senior unsecured notes. At December 31, 2011, we had senior unsecured notes outstanding with an aggregate principal balance of $5.4 billion. At December 31, 2011, interest rates on the notes ranged from 1.45% to 7.07% with a weighted average effective rate of 5.70% and a weighted average maturity of 6.34 years. Discounts and premiums are amortized to interest expense over the term of the related notes. The senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants including limitations on debt, cross acceleration provisions and other customary terms. At December 31, 2011, we believe we were in compliance with these covenants. Mortgage debt. At December 31, 2011, we had $1.8 billion in aggregate principal amount of mortgage debt secured by 138 healthcare facilities (including redevelopment properties) that had a carrying amount of $2.2 billion. At December 31, 2011, interest rates on the mortgage debt range from 1.96% to 8.78% with a weighted average effective interest rate of 6.12% and a weighted average maturity of 4.37 years. Mortgage debt generally requires monthly principal and interest payments, is collateralized by certain properties and is generally non recourse. Mortgage debt typically restricts transfer of the encumbered properties, prohibits additional liens, restricts prepayment, requires payment of real estate taxes, requires maintenance of the properties in good condition, requires maintenance of insurance on the properties and includes requirements to obtain lender consent to enter into and terminate material leases. Some of the mortgage debt is also cross collateralized by multiple properties and may require tenants or operators to maintain compliance with the applicable leases or operating agreements of such properties. Other debt. At December 31, 2011, we had $88 million of non interest bearing life care bonds at two of our CCRCs and non interest bearing occupancy fee deposits at another of our senior housing facility, all of which were payable to certain residents of the facilities (collectively, "Life Care Bonds"). At December 31, 2011, $31 million of the Life Care Bonds are refundable to the residents upon the resident moving out or to their estate upon death, and $57 million of the Life Care Bonds are refundable after the unit is successfully remarketed to a new resident. 53 Table of Contents Debt Maturities The following table summarizes our stated debt maturities and scheduled principal repayments at December 31, 2011 (in thousands): Year Line of Credit Senior Unsecured Notes Mortgage Total(1) 2012 $ $ 250,000 $ 66,761 $ 316,761 2013 550,000 367,374 917,374 2014 487,000 183,758 670,758 2015 454,000 400,000 302,102 1,156,102 2016 900,000 285,586 1,185,586 Thereafter 2,850,000 572,687 3,422,687 454,000 5,437,000 1,778,268 7,669,268 (Discounts) and premiums, net (20,937 ) (13,697 ) (34,634 ) $ 454,000 $ 5,416,063 $ 1,764,571 $ 7,634,634 (1)Excludes $88 million of other debt that represents non interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. Derivative Financial Instruments. We use derivative instruments to mitigate the effects of interest rate fluctuations on specific forecasted transactions as well as recognized obligations or assets. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. The following table summarizes our outstanding interest rate swap contracts as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands): Date Entered Maturity Date Hedge Designation Fixed Rate Floating Rate Index Notional Amount Fair Value July 2005(1) July 2020 Cash Flow 3.82 % BMA Swap Index $ 45,600 $ (7,536 ) November 2008 October 2016 Cash Flow 5.95 % 1 Month LIBOR+1.50% 27,600 (4,176 ) July 2009 July 2013 Cash Flow 6.13 % 1 Month LIBOR+3.65% 14,000 (411 ) (1)Represents three interest rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $45.6 million. For a more detailed description of our derivative financial instruments, see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in Item 7A. Equity At December 31, 2011, we had 4.0 million shares of 7.25% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred stock, 7.8 million shares of 7.10% Series F cumulative redeemable preferred stock and 408.6 million shares of common stock outstanding. At December 31, 2011, equity totaled $9.2 billion and our equity securities had a market value of $17.5 billion. As of December 31, 2011, there were a total of 4.2 million DownREIT units outstanding in five limited liability companies in which we are the managing member. The DownREIT units are exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the then current market value of shares of our common stock or, at our option, shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications). 54 Table of Contents Shelf Registration We have a prospectus on file with the SEC as part of a registration statement on Form S 3, using a shelf registration process that expires in September 2012. Under this "shelf" process, we may sell from time to time any combination of the registered securities in one or more offerings. The securities described in the prospectus include common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. Each time we sell securities under the shelf registration, we will provide a prospectus supplement that will contain specific information about the terms of the securities being offered and of the offering. We may offer and sell the securities pursuant to this prospectus from time to time in one or more of the following ways: through underwriters or dealers, through agents, directly to purchasers or through a combination of any of these methods of sales. Proceeds from the sale of these securities may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, working capital and potential acquisitions. Non GAAP Financial Measure Funds From Operations ("FFO") We believe FFO applicable to common shares, diluted FFO applicable to common shares, and basic and diluted FFO per common share are important supplemental measures of operating performance for a real estate investment trust. Because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets utilizes straight line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a real estate investment trust that uses historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. The term FFO was designed by the real estate investment trust industry to address this issue. FFO is defined as net income applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains or losses from acquisition and dispositions of depreciable real estate or related interests, impairments of, or related to, depreciable real estate, plus real estate and DFL depreciation and amortization, with adjustments for joint ventures. Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income. Our computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other real estate investment trusts that do not define the term in accordance with the current National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition or that have a different interpretation of the current NAREIT definition from us. In addition, we present FFO before the impact of litigation settlement and provision charges, other impairments, other impairment recoveries and merger related items ("FFO as adjusted"). Management believes FFO as adjusted is a useful alternative measurement. This measure is a modification of the NAREIT definition of FFO and should not be used as an alternative to net income. NAREIT recently issued updated reporting guidance that directs companies, for their computation of NAREIT FFO, to exclude impairments of depreciable real estate and other assets when write downs are driven by measurable decreases in the fair value of real estate holdings (e.g., investments in joint ventures that primarily hold real estate). Previously, the Companys calculation of FFO (consistent with NAREITs previous guidance) did not exclude impairments of, or related to, depreciable real estate. Consistent with this current NAREIT reporting guidance, the Company has restated its 2010 and 2009 FFO amounts. Details of certain items that affect comparability are discussed in the financials results summary of our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The following is a 55 Table of Contents reconciliation from net income applicable to common shares, the most direct comparable financial measure calculated and presented with GAAP, to FFO (dollars and shares in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net income applicable to common shares $ 515,302 $ 307,498 $ 109,069 Depreciation and amortization of real estate, in place lease and other intangibles: Continuing operations 356,834 311,218 315,947 Discontinued operations 561 2,229 4,178 DFL depreciation 8,840 Gain on sales of real estate (3,107 ) (19,925 ) (37,321 ) Gain upon consolidation of joint venture (7,769 ) Impairments of real estate and related intangibles 8,118 Impairments of interests in unconsolidated joint venture 71,693 Equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures (46,750 ) (4,770 ) (3,511 ) FFO from unconsolidated joint ventures 56,887 25,288 26,023 Noncontrolling interests and participating securities share in earnings 18,062 15,767 15,952 Noncontrolling interests and participating securities share in FFO (20,953 ) (18,361 ) (17,873 ) FFO applicable to common shares $ 877,907 $ 690,637 $ 420,582 Distributions on dilutive convertible units 6,916 11,847 Diluted FFO applicable to common shares $ 884,823 $ 702,484 $ 420,582 Diluted FFO per common share $ 2.19 $ 2.25 $ 1.53 Weighted average shares used to calculate diluted FFO per common share 403,864 312,797 274,631 Diluted earnings per common share $ 1.29 $ 1.00 $ 0.40 Depreciation and amortization of real estate, in place lease and other intangibles 0.89 1.02 1.17 DFL depreciation 0.02 Gain on sales of real estate and upon consolidation of joint venture (0.03 ) (0.06 ) (0.14 ) Impairments of real estate, related intangibles and interests in unconsolidated joint ventures 0.23 0.03 Joint venture and participating securities FFO adjustments 0.02 0.06 0.07 Diluted FFO per common share $ 2.19 $ 2.25 $ 1.53 56 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Impact of adjustments to FFO: Litigation settlement and provision charges(1) $ 125,000 $ $ 101,973 Other impairments (recoveries)(2) 15,400 (11,900 ) 67,396 Merger related items(3) 26,596 4,339 $ 166,996 $ (7,561 ) $ 169,369 FFO as adjusted applicable to common shares $ 1,044,903 $ 683,076 $ 589,951 Distributions on dilutive convertible units 11,646 12,089 6,088 Diluted FFO as adjusted $ 1,056,549 $ 695,165 $ 596,039 Diluted FFO as adjusted per common share $ 2.69 $ 2.23 $ 2.14 Weighted average shares used to calculate diluted FFO as adjusted per common share(4) 393,237 311,285 278,134 (1)The litigation settlement charge during the year ended December 31, 2011 relates to the Ventas settlement. The litigation provision during the year ended December 31, 2009 relates to the Ventas compensatory damages of approximately $102 million awarded by the jury on September 4, 2009. (2)The following impairments, net of recoveries had an impact on FFO: The impairment charge during the year ended December 31, 2011 relates to our senior secured loan to Cirrus Health. Recoveries for the year ended December 31, 2010 relate to portions of previous impairment charges related to investments in three direct financing leases (non depreciable due to lessee purchase option) and a participation interest in a senior construction loan related to Erickson. The year ended December 31, 2009 includes impairments of $67.4 million as a result of (i) an aggregate $63.1 million provision related to DFL and loan losses (impairment charges) related to the bankruptcy of Erickson and (ii) $4.3 million related to a senior secured loan to Cirrus Health as a result of an expected restructuring of terms to the loan. (3)Merger related items for the year ended December 31, 2011 are attributable to the HCR ManorCare Acquisition (incurred from January 1st through April 6th 2011), which include the following: (i) $26.8 million of direct transaction costs, (ii) $23.9 million of interest expense associated with the $2.4 billion senior unsecured notes issued on January 24, 2011, proceeds from which were obtained to prefund the HCR ManorCare Acquisition, partially offset by (iii) $24.1 million of income related to gains upon the reinvestment of the our debt investment in HCR ManorCare and other miscellaneous items. Merger related items for 2010 primarily include professional fees associated with our HCR ManorCare Acquisition. (4)Our weighted average shares used to calculate diluted FFO as adjusted eliminate the impact of 46 million shares of common stock from our December 2010 offering and 30 million shares from our March 2011 common stock offering (excludes 4.5 million shares sold to the underwriters upon exercise of their option to purchase additional shares), which issuances increased our weighted average shares by 12.9 million and 1.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Proceeds from these offerings were used to fund a portion of the cash consideration for the HCR ManorCare Acquisition. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We own interests in certain unconsolidated joint ventures as described under Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Except in limited circumstances, our risk of loss is limited to our investment in the joint venture and any outstanding loans receivable. In addition, we have certain properties which serve as collateral for debt that is owed by a previous owner of certain of our facilities, as described under Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included. Our risk of loss for these properties is limited to the outstanding debt balance plus penalties, if any. We have no other material off balance sheet arrangements that we expect would materially affect our liquidity and capital resources except those described below under "Contractual Obligations." 57 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our material contractual payment obligations and commitments at December 31, 2011 (in thousands): Total(1) Less than One Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 More than Five Years Bank line of credit $ 454,000 $ $ $ 454,000 $ Senior unsecured notes 5,437,000 250,000 1,037,000 1,300,000 2,850,000 Mortgage debt 1,778,268 66,761 551,132 587,688 572,687 Construction loan commitments(2) 90,414 70,975 11,563 7,876 Development commitments(3) 25,136 25,136 Ground and other operating leases 202,712 5,455 10,472 8,355 178,430 Interest(4) 2,587,731 405,478 709,993 536,675 935,585 Total $ 10,575,261 $ 823,805 $ 2,320,160 $ 2,894,594 $ 4,536,702 (1)Excludes $88 million of other debt that represents non interest bearing Life Care Bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. (2)Represents commitments to finance development projects and related working capital financings. (3)Represents construction and other commitments for developments in progress. (4)Interest on variable rate debt is calculated using rates in effect at December 31, 2011. Inflation Our leases often provide for either fixed increases in base rents or indexed escalators, based on the Consumer Price Index or other measures, and or additional rent based on increases in the tenants operating revenues. Substantially all of our MOB leases require the tenant to pay a share of property operating costs such as real estate taxes, insurance and utilities. Substantially all of our senior housing, life science, post acute/skilled nursing and hospital leases require the operator or tenant to pay all of the property operating costs or reimburse us for all such costs. We believe that inflationary increases in expenses will be offset, in part, by the operator or tenant expense reimbursements and contractual rent increases described above. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of new accounting standards. There were no accounting pronouncements that were issued, but not yet adopted by us, that we believe will materially impact our consolidated financial statements.  ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk. At December 31, 2011, we were exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on the following: (i) $454 million of variable rate line of credit borrowings, (ii) $25 million of variable rate senior unsecured notes and (iii) $24 million of variable rate mortgage debt payable (excluding $88 million of variable rate mortgage notes that have been hedged through interest rate swap contracts) that are partially offset by properties with a gross value of $83 million that are subject to leases where the payments fluctuate with changes in LIBOR. Interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our future earnings or cash flows on our fixed rate debt and loans receivable unless such instruments mature or are otherwise terminated. However, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. Conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and investments would change our future earnings and cash flows, 58 Table of Contents but not significantly affect the fair value of those instruments. Assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable rate debt and variable rate investments, and assuming no other changes in the outstanding balance as of December 31, 2011, annual net interest expense would increase by approximately $4.2 million or $0.01 per common share on a diluted basis. We use derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to mitigate interest rate risk. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivatives are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at their fair value. See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. To illustrate the effect of movements in the interest rate markets, we performed a market sensitivity analysis on our hedging instruments. We applied various basis point spreads to the underlying interest rate curves of the derivative portfolio in order to determine the instruments change in fair value. Assuming a one percentage point change in the underlying interest rate curve, the estimated change in fair value of each of the underlying derivative instruments would not exceed $3.8 million. See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional analysis details. Market Risk. We have investments in marketable equity securities classified as available for sale. Gains and losses on these securities are recognized in income when realized and losses are recognized when an other than temporary decline in value is identified. An initial indicator of other than temporary decline in value for marketable equity securities is based on the severity of the decline in market value below the cost basis for an extended period of time. We consider a variety of factors in evaluating an other than temporary decline in value, such as: the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our current cost basis; the issuers financial condition, capital strength and near term prospects; any recent events specific to that issuer and economic conditions of its industry; and our investment horizon in relationship to an anticipated near term recovery in the market value, if any. At December 31, 2011, the fair value and current cost basis of marketable equity securities were both $17.1 million. The principal amount and the average interest rates for our loans receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table below. The fair value for our senior unsecured notes payable is based on prevailing market prices. The fair value estimates for loans receivable and mortgage debt payable are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates for loans and debt of the same type and remaining maturity. Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total Fair Value (dollars in thousands) Assets: Loans receivable $ 75,650 (1) $ 8,223 $ 1,523 $ 15,640 $ 9,814 $ 443 $ 111,293 $ 111,073 Weighted average interest rate % 11.50 % 11.00 % 8.00 % 8.25 % 8.25 % 12.4 % Liabilities(2): Variable rate debt: Bank line of credit $ $ $ $ 454,000 $ $ $ 454,000 $ 454,000 Weighted average interest rate % % % 2.26 % % % 2.26 % Senior unsecured notes payable $ $ $ 25,000 $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ 24,163 Weighted average interest rate % % 1.51 % % % % 1.51 % Mortgage debt payable $ 8,534 $ 6,430 $ 455 $ 8,500 $ $ $ 23,919 $ 21,640 Weighted average interest rate 1.96 % 2.07 % % 1.21 % % % 1.69 % Fixed rate debt: Senior unsecured notes payable $ 250,000 $ 550,000 $ 462,000 $ 400,000 $ 900,000 $ 2,850,000 $ 5,412,000 $ 5,795,141 Weighted average interest rate 6.67 % 5.81 % 3.37 % 6.64 % 5.07 % 6.08 % 5.72 % Mortgage debt payable $ 58,227 $ 360,944 $ 183,303 $ 293,602 $ 285,586 $ 572,687 $ 1,754,349 $ 1,848,430 Weighted average interest rate 5.91 % 6.11 % 5.74 % 6.17 % 6.92 % 6.02 % 6.18 % (1)Effective January 1, 2011, a senior secured loan to Cirrus was placed on non accrual status. For additional information regarding the senior secured loan to Cirrus see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2)Excludes $88 million of other debt that represents non interest bearing Life Care Bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. 59 Table of Contents  
 
