FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20041210154342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
         
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
         
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
         
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
         
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
(a)           On and effective December 9, 2004, the Board of Trustees of Equity Residential amended and restated the Company's Fourth Amended and Restated Bylaws.  The following is a summary of changes effected by adoption of the Fifth Amended and Restated Bylaws, which is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Fifth Amended and Restated Bylaws filed as an Exhibit hereto.
 
GENERAL
 
                In addition to the amendments described below, the Bylaws include certain changes to (1) clarify language, (2) comply or be consistent with Maryland law, (3) conform to various provisions of the Declaration of Trust of the Company and (4) make various technical corrections.
 
ARTICLE II  MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS
 
                .  The Bylaws were amended to repeal a requirement (as obsolete) that meetings of shareholders be held "within the United States" and provide that shareholder meetings shall be held in a convenient location as set by the Board of Trustees.
Place of Meetings
 
                .  The amended Bylaws add the Chief Executive Officer to the list of officers who have the authority to call special meetings of the shareholders and develop and clarify the procedures of the former Bylaws relating to shareholder-requested special meetings by (i) clarifying that all notices with respect to the request for a special meeting shall be sent to the Secretary of the Company, (ii) requiring that agents of shareholders be duly authorized in writing and removing the inaccurate characterization of such agents as proxies, (iii) eliminating the requirement that the Board make a public announcement of the record date for the request for the meeting, (iv) providing that the matters to be included in special meeting requests are limited to "lawful" matters, (v) expanding the information that a requesting shareholder is required to give to the Company, (vi) repealing a provision that had the effect of requiring any requesting shareholder who wishes to revoke a request for a special meeting to submit such a revocation to the Company at least ten days before the commencement of the meeting and (vii) clarifying that the Board may revoke notice of a shareholder-requested meeting if the requesting shareholders do not comply with procedural requirements of the Bylaws.
Special Meetings of Shareholders
 
                .  The amended Bylaws provide that meeting notices to shareholders may be delivered by any means permitted by Maryland law.  The former Bylaws already specified various possible means of delivery, including email.  This amendment will automatically update the Bylaws to allow the Company to avail itself and its shareholders of any other means of notice that may become authorized under Maryland law in the future.
Notice of Meetings of Shareholders
 
               
Organization and Conduct of Meetings of Shareholders; Quorum
.  The former Bylaws provided that the Chairman of the Board shall preside at shareholder meetings.  The Bylaws were amended to vest in the Board the power to appoint the chairman of a shareholders meeting and establish the powers of the chairman of the meeting, such as the power to limit attendance at shareholders meetings to shareholders of record and their duly authorized proxies, to limit the time allotted to questions or comments by attendees, to determine when polls should be opened and closed and to recess or adjourn a shareholders meeting.  The Bylaws were amended to provide that, in the absence of an officer to act as a chairman of a shareholders meeting, the shareholder vote required to appoint a chairman of the meeting is a majority of the votes cast.  Under the former Bylaws, the vote was the vote of shareholders entitled to cast a majority of the votes which all shareholders present in person or proxy are entitled to cast.
 
                The amended Bylaws also give the shareholders present at a meeting of shareholders that has been duly called and convened the power to continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum.  The former Bylaws did not include comparable provisions.
 
                .  The amended Bylaws allow the Board, in advance of a meeting of shareholders, to appoint inspectors and allow the chairman of the meeting of shareholders to appoint inspectors if the Board does not do so.  The former Bylaws granted the chairman of the meeting such power.  The amended Bylaws also set forth, in greater detail, the procedures for inspecting shareholder votes, such as determining the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the shares represented at the meeting and the existence of a quorum.
Inspectors
                .  The former Bylaws required the advance notice of shareholder nominations and business proposals to be submitted to the Company 90 to 120 days before the first anniversary of the mailing of the notice of the prior year's meeting.  The amended Bylaws increase that notice period to 120 to 150 days before the first anniversary of the mailing of the notice of the prior year's meeting for conformity with Rule 14a-8(e) of the Securities and Exchange Commission Proxy Rules, which requires a proponent shareholder to submit proposals for inclusion in the proxy statement not less than 120 days before the date a company released its proxy statement for the prior year's meeting (which is the same date of the meeting notice).  The amended Bylaws also clarify and enhance the procedures for advance notice such as expanding the information the shareholder proponent is required to give to the Company.  The amended Bylaws require that certain information be included in any shareholder nominations, including disclosure with respect to "shareholder associated persons," defined to include persons under direct or indirect common control, or acting in concert with, a shareholder for such purposes.
Advance Notice of Shareholder Nominees for Trustee and Other Shareholder Proposals
 
                The amended Bylaws also require a shareholder proposing a nominee for election as a Trustee or any other proposal for business to provide written verification, upon written request of the Secretary, the Board, or any committee of the Board, of the accuracy of any information submitted by the shareholder.  The former Bylaws did not contain comparable provisions.
 
                .  The former Bylaws did not contain provisions governing meetings by conference telephone or other equipment.  The amended Bylaws include a new section providing for shareholder meetings by teleconference and vesting in the Board or the chairman of the meeting the decision to authorize a meeting by teleconference.
Shareholder Meetings By Teleconference
 
ARTICLE III  TRUSTEES
 
                .  The amended Bylaws mirror the language in the Declaration regarding the range of the number of Trustees the Company may have.  The former Bylaws did not specify the range.
Number of Trustees
 
                .  The amended Bylaws provide that the Board may provide by resolution for the date, time and place for holding meetings of the Board without any other notice other than such resolution.  The former Bylaws did not contain such a provision.  The amended Bylaws update the means by which notice of Board meetings may be delivered to Trustees by eliminating obsolete references to notice by "telegraph" and adding references to notice by "electronic mail" and "courier" (in addition to notice by personal delivery, mail and facsimile). The amended Bylaws also clarify and generally shorten the time frames in the former Bylaws for determining when notice by each delivery method will be deemed given to Trustees.
Notice of Board Meetings
 
                .  The amended Bylaws add the Chief Executive Officer to the list of individuals who may call a special meeting of the Board.
Special Board Meetings
 
                .  The amended Bylaws provide that if enough Trustees have withdrawn from a meeting so as to leave less than a quorum but the meeting has not been adjourned, then the action of the majority of that number of Trustees necessary to constitute a quorum at such meeting will constitute the action of the Trustees.  The former Bylaws did not contain such a provision.
Voting
 
                .  The amended Bylaws include a new section providing that the Chairman of the Board shall act as chairman of a Board meeting and the Secretary of the Company meeting shall act as the secretary of the meeting.  The amended Bylaws include succession provisions in the event that either the Chairman of the Board or Secretary of the Company are absent from the meeting.
Organization of Board Meetings
 
                .  The amended Bylaws provide that written consent by Trustees may be given via electronic transmission in addition to a signed writing as was provided in the former Bylaws.
Consent by Trustees Without a Meeting
 
                .  The amended Bylaws repeal a provision that required a majority vote of the entire Board to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of Trustees.  The repealed provision was inconsistent with another provision of Bylaws that allowed a majority of the remaining Trustees to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of Trustees.
Vacancies
                .  The amended Bylaws clarify that Trustees may be compensated for visiting properties leased as well as owned by the Company.
Compensation
 
                .  The amended Bylaws repeal, as unnecessary and potentially confusing, a section providing that Trustees may be removed by shareholders in the manner provided in the Declaration.
Removal of Trustees
 
ARTICLE IV  COMMITTEES
 
                .  The amended Bylaws add a reference to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board to accurately reflect the Company's standing committees.
Number
 
                .  The amended Bylaws provide that a majority of the members of a committee, rather than one-third of the members of a committee, as provided in the former Bylaws, constitutes a quorum.  The amended Bylaws also allow a majority of committee members to appoint a substitute committee member to act in place of an absent member rather than requiring unanimity as was provided in the former Bylaws.
Committee Meetings
 
                .  The former Bylaws provide that the Board may delegate to Board-appointed committees any of the powers of the Board, "except as prohibited by law."  The Maryland REIT Law allows the board of trustees of a Maryland real estate investment trust to delegate of its powers to a board-appointed committee.  The amended Bylaws eliminate the obsolete limitation on committee powers.  The amended Bylaws repeal the specific reporting requirements for committees of the Board and now vest in the Board the power to establish reporting practices for each individual committee.
Committee Powers and Reports
any
 
                .  The amended Bylaws now provide that written consents by committee members may be given via electronic transmission in addition to a signed writing.
Consent By Committees Without a Meeting
 
ARTICLE V  OFFICERS
 
                . The amended Bylaws provide that the Chief Executive Officer may appoint one or more Senior Vice Presidents or other officers below the level of Executive Vice President.  The former Bylaws did not include such a provision.
General Provisions
 
                .  The amended Bylaws clarify that the Board may remove an officer with or without cause if the Board deems it in the best interests of the Company.  The former Bylaws did not provide such clarification.
Removal and Resignation
 
                .  The amended Bylaws transfer from the Chairman of the Board to the Chief Executive Officer the power to execute certain documents and provide that in the absence of a Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board shall be the Chief Executive Officer.
Chief Executive Officer
 
                .  The amended Bylaws provide that, in the absence of a designation of a Chief Financial Officer by the Board, the Treasurer shall be the Chief Financial Officer.
Chief Financial Officer
 
                .  The amended Bylaws establish the General Counsel of the Company as an officer.
General Counsel
 
ARTICLE VI  CONTRACTS, LOANS, CHECKS AND DEPOSITS
 
                The Bylaws provide that various documents executed by the Trustees or authorized persons shall be valid and binding upon the Trustees and the Company when authorized or ratified by action of the Trustees.  The amended Bylaws remove references to such documents being valid and binding as against the Trustees.  The amended Bylaws also allow a duly established committee to direct and authorize an officer to sign various documents.
ARTICLE VII  SHARES
 
                .  The amended Bylaws clarify that the Company is permitted to issue uncertificated shares of beneficial interest.  However, the Company is required to provide a share certificate to a record shareholder upon the written request of such shareholder.  The amended Bylaws authorize the President, Secretary or Treasurer to issue a replacement certificate upon the making of an affidavit by the person claiming the certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed.
Certificates and Replacement Certificates
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)           Exhibits.
 
                The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
ARTICLE I
OFFICES
 
Section 1.  .  The principal office of Equity Residential (the "Company") shall be located at such place or places as the Board of Trustees may designate.
PRINCIPAL OFFICE
 
Section 2.  .  The Company may have additional offices at such places as the Board of Trustees may from time to time determine or the business of the Company may require.
ADDITIONAL OFFICES
 
ARTICLE II
MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS
 
Section 1.  .  All meetings of shareholders shall be held at the principal office of the Company or at such other place as shall be set by the Board of Trustees and stated in the notice of the meeting.
PLACE
 
Section 2.  .  An annual meeting of the shareholders for the election of Trustees and the transaction of any business within the powers of the Company shall be held each year at a convenient location, after the delivery of the annual report referred to in Section 12 of this Article II, on a date and at the time set by the Board of Trustees.  Failure to hold an annual meeting does not invalidate the Company's existence or affect any otherwise valid acts of the Company.
ANNUAL MEETING
 
Section 3.  .  (a) General.  The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or one-third of the Trustees then in office may call special meetings of the shareholders.  Subject to subsection (b) of this Section 3, a special meeting of shareholders shall also be called by the Secretary of the Company upon the written request of the holders of shares entitled to cast not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at such meeting.
SPECIAL MEETINGS
 
. (1) Any shareholder of record seeking to have shareholders request a special meeting shall, by sending written notice to the Secretary (the "Record Date Request Notice") by registered mail, return receipt requested, request the Board of Trustees to fix a record date to determine the shareholders entitled to request a special meeting (the "Request Record Date").  The Record Date Request Notice shall set forth the purpose of the meeting and the matters proposed to be acted on at it, shall be signed by one or more shareholders of record as of the date of signature (or their agents duly authorized in a writing accompanying the Record Date Request Notice), shall bear the date of signature of each such shareholder (or such agent) and shall set forth all information relating to each such shareholder that must be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of trustees in an election contest
(b)
          
Shareholder Requested Special Meetings
 
 
(even if an election contest is not involved), or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A (or any successor provision) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").  Upon receiving the Record Date Request Notice, the Board of Trustees may fix a Request Record Date.  The Request Record Date shall not precede and shall not be more than ten days after the close of business on the date on which the resolution fixing the Request Record Date is adopted by the Board of Trustees.  If the Board of Trustees, within ten days after the date on which a valid Record Date Request Notice is received, fails to adopt a resolution fixing the Request Record Date, the Request Record Date shall be the close of business on the tenth day after the first date on which the Record Date Request Notice is received by the Secretary.
 
In order for any shareholder to request a special meeting, one or more written requests for a special meeting signed by shareholders of record (or their agents duly authorized in a writing accompanying the request) as of the Request Record Date entitled to cast not less than a majority (the "Special Meeting Percentage") of all of the votes entitled to be cast at such meeting (the "Special Meeting Request) shall be delivered to the Secretary.  In addition, the Special Meeting Request shall set forth the purpose of the meeting and the matters proposed to be acted on at it (which shall be limited to those lawful matters set forth in the Record Date Request Notice received by the Secretary), shall bear the date of signature of each such shareholder (or such other agent) signing the Special Meeting Request, shall set forth the name and address, as they appear in the Company's books, of each shareholder signing such request (or on whose behalf the Special Meeting Request is signed), the class, series and number of all shares of the Company which are owned of record by each such shareholder, and the nominee holder for, and number of, all shares owned by such shareholder beneficially but not of record, shall be sent to the Secretary by registered mail, return receipt requested, and shall be received by the Secretary within 60 days after the Request Record Date.  Any requesting shareholder (or agent duly authorized in a writing accompanying the revocation or the Special Meeting Request) may revoke his, her or its request for a special meeting at any time by written revocation delivered to the Secretary.
(2)
          
 
The Secretary shall inform the requesting shareholders of the reasonably estimated cost of preparing and mailing the notice of meeting (including the Company's proxy materials).  The Secretary shall not be required to call a special meeting upon shareholder request and such meeting shall not be held unless, in addition to the documents required by paragraph (2) of this Section 3(b), the Secretary receives payment of such reasonably estimated cost prior to the mailing of any notice of the meeting.
(3)
          
 
Except as provided in the next sentence, any special meeting shall be held at such place, date and time as may be designated by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Trustees, whoever has called the meeting.  In the case of any special meeting called by the Secretary upon the request of shareholders (a "Shareholder Requested Meeting"), such meeting shall be held at such place, date and time as may be designated by the Board of Trustees; , however, that the date of any Shareholder Requested Meeting shall be not more than 90 days after the record date for such meeting (the "Meeting Record Date"); and that if the Board of Trustees fails to designate, within ten days after the date that a valid Special Meeting Request isactually received by the Secretary (the "Delivery Date"), a date and time for a Shareholder Requested Meeting, then such
(4)
          
provided
provided
further
 
meeting shall be held at 2:00 p.m. local time on the 90th day after the Meeting Record Date or, if such 90th day is not a Business Day (as defined below), on the first preceding Business Day; and that in the event that the Board of Trustees fails to designate a place for a Shareholder Requested Meeting within ten days after the Delivery Date, then such meeting shall be held at the principal executive office of the Company.  In fixing a date for any special meeting, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Trustees may consider such factors as he, she or it deems relevant within the good faith exercise of business judgment, including, without limitation, the nature of the matters to be considered, the facts and circumstances surrounding any request for the meeting and any plan of the Board of Trustees to call an annual meeting or a special meeting.  In the case of any Shareholder Requested Meeting, if the Board of Trustees fails to fix a Meeting Record Date that is a date within 30 days after the Delivery Date, then the close of business on the 30th day after the Delivery Date shall be the Meeting Record Date.  The Board of Trustees may revoke the notice for any Shareholder Requested Meeting in the event that the requesting shareholders fail to comply with the provisions of paragraph (3) of this Section 3(b).
provided
further
 
If written revocations of requests for the special meeting have been delivered to the Secretary and the result is that shareholders of record (or their agents duly authorized in writing), as of the Request Record Date entitled to cast less than the Special Meeting Percentage have delivered and not revoked requests for a special meeting to the Secretary, the Secretary shall:  (i) if the notice of meeting has not already been mailed, refrain from mailing the notice of the meeting and send to all requesting shareholders who have not revoked such requests written notice of any revocation of a request for the special meeting, or (ii) if the notice of the meeting has been mailed and if the Secretary first sends to all requesting shareholders who have not revoked requests for a special meeting written notice of any revocation of a request for the special meeting and written notice of the Secretary's intention to revoke the notice of the meeting, revoke the notice of the meeting at any time before ten days before the commencement of the meeting.  Any request for a special meeting received after a revocation by the Secretary of a notice of a meeting shall be considered a request for a new special meeting.
(5)
          
 
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Trustees may appoint regionally or nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections to act as the agent of the Company for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of any purported Special Meeting Request received by the Secretary.  For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no such purported request shall be deemed to have been delivered to the Secretary until the earlier of (i) five Business Days after receipt by the Secretary of such purported request and (ii) such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Company that the valid requests received by the Secretary represent at least a majority of the issued and outstanding shares that would be entitled to vote at such meeting.  Nothing contained in this paragraph (6) shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Company or any shareholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any request, whether during or after such five Business Day period, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
(6)
          
For purposes of these Bylaws, "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the State of Illinois are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
(7)
          
 
.  Not less than ten nor more than 90 days before each meeting of shareholders, the Secretary shall give to each shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting and to each shareholder not entitled to vote who is entitled to notice of the meeting written or printed notice stating the time and place of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting or as otherwise may be required by any statute, the purpose for which the meeting is called, either by mail, electronic mail or other electronic means, or by presenting it to such shareholder personally or by leaving it at the shareholder's residence or usual place of business or by any other means permitted by Maryland law.  If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail addressed to the shareholder at the shareholder's address as it appears on the records of the Company, with postage thereon prepaid.
Section 4.
              
NOTICE
 
.  Subject to Section 13(a) of this Article II, any business of the Company may be transacted at an annual meeting of shareholders without being specifically designated in the notice, except such business as is required by any statute to be stated in such notice.  No business shall be transacted at a special meeting of shareholders except as specifically designated in the notice.
Section 5.
              
SCOPE OF NOTICE
 
.  Every meeting of the shareholders shall be conducted by an individual appointed by the Board of Trustees to be chairman of the meeting, or in the absence of such appointment, by the Chairman of the Board or, in the case of a vacancy in the office or absence of the Chairman of the Board, by one of the following officers present at the meeting in the order stated:  the Vice Chairman of the Board, if there be one, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Vice Presidents in their order of rank and seniority, or, in the absence of such officers, a chairman chosen by the shareholders by the vote of a majority of the votes cast by shareholders present in person or by proxy.  The Secretary, or in the Secretary's absence an Assistant Secretary, or in the absence of both the Secretary and Assistant Secretaries, an individual appointed by the Board of Trustees, or in the absence of such appointment, an individual appointed by the chairman of the meeting, shall act as Secretary.  In the event that the Secretary presides at a meeting of the shareholders, an Assistant Secretary, or in the absence of Assistant Secretaries, an individual appointed by the Board of Trustees or the chairman of the meeting, shall record the minutes of the meeting.  The order of business and all other matters of procedure at any meeting of shareholders shall be determined by the chairman of the meeting.  The chairman of the meeting may prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and take such action as, in the discretion of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, (a) restricting admission to the time set for the commencement of the meeting; (b) limiting attendance at the meeting to shareholders of record of the Company, their duly authorized proxies and other such individuals as the chairman of the meeting may determine; (c) limiting participation at the meeting on any matter to shareholders of record of the Company entitled to vote on such matter, their duly authorized proxies and other such individuals as the chairman of the meeting may determine; (d) limiting the time allotted to questions or comments by participants; (e) determining when the polls should be opened and closed; (f) maintaining order and security at the meeting; (g) removing any shareholder or any other individual who refuses to comply with meeting procedures, rules or guidelines as set forth by the chairman of the meeting;
Section 6.
              
ORGANIZATION AND CONDUCT
 
(h) recessing or adjourning the meeting to a later date and time and place announced at the meeting and (i) concluding the meeting.  Unless otherwise determined by the chairman of the meeting, meetings of shareholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
 
.  At any meeting of shareholders, the presence in person or by proxy of shareholders entitled to cast a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at such meeting on any matter shall constitute a quorum; but this section shall not affect any requirement under any statute or the Declaration of Trust of the Company (the "Declaration of Trust") for the vote necessary for the adoption of any measure.  If, however, such quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the shareholders, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time to a date not more than 120 days after the original record date without notice other than announcement at the meeting.  At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified.  The shareholders present either in person or by proxy, at a meeting which has been duly called and convened, may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum.
Section 7.
              
QUORUM
 
.  A plurality of all the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders duly called and at which a quorum is present shall be sufficient to elect a Trustee.  Each share may be voted for as many individuals as there are Trustees to be elected and for whose election the share is entitled to be voted.  A majority of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders duly called and at which a quorum is present shall be sufficient to approve any other matter which may properly come before the meeting, unless more than a majority of the votes cast is required by statute or by the Declaration of Trust.  Unless otherwise provided by statute or by the Declaration of Trust, each outstanding share, regardless of class, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of shareholders.
Section 8.
              
VOTING
 
.  A shareholder may cast the votes entitled to be cast by the shares owned of record by the shareholder either in person or by proxy.  A proxy may be executed or authorized in any manner not prohibited by law.  Such proxy or evidence of authorization of such proxy shall be filed with or delivered to the Secretary before or at the time of the meeting.  No proxy shall be valid after eleven months from the date of its execution or authorization, unless otherwise provided in the proxy.
Section 9.
              
PROXIES
 
.  Shares of the Company registered in the name of a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity, if entitled to be voted, may be voted by the president or a vice president, a general partner, member, manager or trustee thereof, as the case may be, or a proxy appointed by any of the foregoing individuals, unless some other individual who has been appointed to vote such shares pursuant to a bylaw or a resolution of the governing body of such corporation or other entity or agreement of the partners of the partnership presents a certified copy of such bylaw, resolution or agreement, in which case such person may vote such shares.  Any trustee or other fiduciary may vote shares registered in his or her name as such fiduciary, either in person or by proxy.
Section 10.
            
VOTING OF SHARES BY CERTAIN HOLDERS
 
Shares of the Company directly or indirectly owned by it shall not be voted at any meeting and shall not be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares entitled to be voted at any given time, unless they are held by it in a fiduciary capacity, in which case they may be voted and shall be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares at any given time.
 
The Board of Trustees may adopt by resolution a procedure by which a shareholder may certify in writing to the Company that any shares registered in the name of the shareholder are held for the account of a specified person other than the shareholder.  The resolution shall set forth the class of shareholders who may make the certification, the purpose for which the certification may be made, the form of certification and the information to be contained in it; if the certification is with respect to a record date or closing of the share transfer books, the time after the record date or closing of the share transfer books within which the certification must be received by the Company; and any other provisions with respect to the procedure which the Board of Trustees considers necessary or desirable.  On receipt of such certification, the person specified in the certification shall be regarded as, for the purposes set forth in the certification, the shareholder of record of the specified shares in place of the shareholder who makes the certification.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein or in the Declaration of Trust or these Bylaws, Title 3, Subtitle 7 of the Corporations and Associations Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland (or any successor statute) shall not apply to any acquisition by any person of shares of beneficial interest of the Company.  This section may be repealed, in whole or in part, at any time, whether before or after an acquisition of control shares and, upon such repeal, may, to the extent provided by any successor bylaw, apply to any prior or subsequent control share acquisition.
 
.  The Board of Trustees, in advance of any meeting, may, but need not, appoint one or more individual inspectors or one or more entities that designate individuals as inspectors to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof.  If an inspector or inspectors are not appointed, the chairman of the meeting may, but need not, appoint one or more inspectors.  In case any person who may be appointed as an inspector fails to appear or act, the vacancy may be filled by appointment made by the Board of Trustees in advance of the meeting or at the meeting by the chairman of the meeting.  The inspectors, if any, shall determine the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum and the validity and effect of proxies, and shall receive votes, ballots or consents, hear and determine all challenges and questions arising in connection with the right to vote, count and tabulate all votes, ballots or consents, determine the result, and do such acts as are proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all shareholders.  Each such report shall be in writing and signed by him or her or by a majority of them if there is more than one inspector acting at such meeting.  If there is more than one inspector, the report of a majority shall be the report of the inspectors.  The report of the inspector or inspectors on the number of shares represented at the meeting and the results of the voting shall be evidence thereof.
Section 11.
            
INSPECTORS
prima facie
 
.
Section 12.
            
REPORTS TO SHAREHOLDERS
 
The Board of Trustees shall submit to the shareholders at or before the annual meeting of shareholders a report of the business and operations of the Company during such fiscal year,
 
containing a balance sheet and a statement of income and surplus of the Company, accompanied by the certification of an independent certified public accountant, and such further information as the Board of Trustees may determine is required pursuant to any law or regulation to which the Company is subject.  Within the earlier of 20 days after the annual meeting of shareholders or 120 days after the end of the fiscal year of the Company, the Board of Trustees shall place the annual report on file at the principal office of the Company.
 
.
Section 13.
            
NOMINATIONS AND PROPOSALS BY SHAREHOLDERS
 
. (1)  Nominations of individuals for election to the Board of Trustees and the proposal of other business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (i) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Trustees or (iii) by any shareholder of the Company who was a shareholder of record both at the time of giving of notice by the shareholder as provided for in this Section 13(a) and at the time of the annual meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with this Section 13(a).
(a)
          
Annual Meetings of Shareholders
 
For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (iii) of paragraph (a) (1) of this Section 13, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Company and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for action by shareholders.  To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall set forth all information required under this Section 13 and shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not earlier than the 150th day nor later than 5:00 p.m., Central Time, on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the date of mailing of the notice for the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced or delayed by more than 30 days from the first anniversary of the date of preceding year's annual meeting, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 150th day prior to the date of mailing of the notice for such annual meeting and not later than 5:00 p.m., Central Time, on the later of the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of date of such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Company.  In no event shall the public announcement of a postponement or adjournment of an annual meeting to a later date or time commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.  Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each individual whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a Trustee (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of such individual, (B) the class, series and number of any shares of beneficial interest of the Company that are beneficially owned or owned of record by such individual, (C) the date such shares were acquired and the investment intent of such acquisition and (D) all other information relating to such individual that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of trustees in an election contest (even if an election contest is not involved), or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder (including such individual's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a Trustee if elected); (ii) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a description of such business, the reasons for proposing such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and any Shareholder Associated Person (as defined below), individually or in the aggregate, including any anticipated benefit to the
(2)
          
 
 
shareholder and the Shareholder Associated Person therefrom; and (iii) as to the shareholder giving the notice and any Shareholder Associated Person, the class, series and number of all shares of the Company which are owned of record by such shareholder and by such Shareholder Associated Person, if any, and the nominee holder for, and the class, series and number of shares owned beneficially but not of record by such shareholder and by any such Shareholder Associated Person; (iv) as to the shareholder giving the notice and any Shareholder Associated Person covered by clauses (ii) or (iii) of this paragraph (2) of this Section 13(a), the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Company's share ledger and current name and address, if different, and of such Shareholder Associated Person; and (v) to the extent known by the shareholder giving the notice, the name and address of any other shareholder supporting the nominee for election or reelection as a Trustee or the proposal of other business on the date of such shareholder's notice.
 
Notwithstanding anything in this subsection (a)(2) of this Section 13 to the contrary, in the event that the number of Trustees to be elected to the Board of Trustees is increased and there is no public announcement of such action at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of mailing of the notice of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this Section 13(a) shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Company not later than 5:00 p.m., Central Time,  on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Company.
(3)
          
 
For purposes of this Section 13, "Shareholder Associated Person" of any shareholder shall mean (i) any person controlling, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such shareholder, (ii) any beneficial owner of shares of beneficial interest of the Company owned of record or beneficially by such shareholder and (iii) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Shareholder Associated Person.
(4)
          
 
.  Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting.  Nominations of individuals for election to the Board of Trustees may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which Trustees are to be elected (i) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Trustees or (iii) provided that the Board of Trustees has determined that Trustees shall be elected at such special meeting, by any shareholder of the Company who is a shareholder of record both at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 13(b) and at the time of the special meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 13(b).  In the event the Company calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more Trustees to the Board of Trustees, any such shareholder may nominate an individual or individuals (as the case may be) for election to such position as specified in the Company's notice of meeting, if the shareholder's notice containing the information required by subsection (a) (2) of this Section 13 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Company not earlier than the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than 5:00 p.m., Central Time, on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Trustees to be elected at such meeting.  In
(b)
          
Special Meetings of Shareholders
 
no event shall the public announcement of a postponement or adjournment of a special meeting to a later date or time commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
 
. (1) Upon written request by the Secretary or the Board of Trustees or any committee thereof, any shareholder proposing a nominee for election as a Trustee or any proposal for other business at a meeting of shareholders shall provide, within three business days of delivery of such request (or such other period as may be specified in such request), written verification, satisfactory, in the discretion of the Board or any committee thereof or any authorized officer of the Company, of the accuracy of any information submitted by the shareholder pursuant to this Section 13.  If a shareholder fails to provide such written verification within such period, the information as to which written verification was requested may be deemed as not having been provided in accordance with this Section 13.
(c)
          
General
 
Only such individuals who are nominated in accordance with this Section 13 shall be eligible for election by shareholders as Trustees and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 13.  The chairman of the meeting shall have the power to determine whether a nomination or any other business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with this Section 13 and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Section 13.
(2)
          
 
For purposes of this Section 13, (a) the "date of mailing of the notice" shall mean the date of the proxy statement for the solicitation of proxies for the election of Trustees and (b) "public announcement" shall mean (i) a press release transmitted to the principal securities exchange or market on which the Company's shares are traded or reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press, Business Wire, PR Newswire or a comparable news service or (ii) a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) the Exchange Act.
(3)
          
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 13, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of state law and of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 13.  Nothing in this Section 13 shall be deemed to affect any rights of shareholders to request inclusion of a proposal in, nor the right of the Company to omit a proposal from, the Company's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act.
(4)
          
 
.  The Board of Trustees or the chairman of the meeting may permit shareholders to participate in a meeting of shareholders by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by which all individuals participating in the meeting can hear each other at the same time.  Participation in a meeting by these means constitutes presence in person at the meeting.
Section 14.
            
MEETING BY CONFERENCE TELEPHONE
 
.  Voting on any question or in any election may be viva voce unless the presiding officer shall order or any shareholder shall demand that voting be by ballot.
Section 15.
            
VOTING BY BALLOT
 
ARTICLE III
TRUSTEES
 
.  The business and affairs of the Company shall be managed under the direction of its Board of Trustees.  A Trustee shall be an individual at least 21 years of age who is not under legal disability.  In case of failure to elect Trustees at an annual meeting of the shareholders, the Trustees holding over shall continue to direct the management of the business and affairs of the Company until their successors are elected and qualify.
Section 1.
              
GENERAL POWERS, QUALIFICATIONS, TRUSTEES HOLDING OVER
 
.  At any regular meeting or at any special meeting called for that purpose, a majority of the entire Board of Trustees may establish, increase or decrease the number of Trustees; , however, that the number thereof shall never be less than two, nor more than 15, and further provided that such action shall not affect the tenure of office of any Trustee.
Section 2.
              
NUMBER
provided
 
.  An annual meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be held at least once per calendar year.  The Board of Trustees may provide, by resolution, the date, time and place for the holding of an annual or regular meeting of the Board of Trustees without other notice than such resolution.
Section 3.
              
ANNUAL AND REGULAR MEETINGS
 
.  Special meetings of the Board of Trustees may be called by or at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or by a majority of the Trustees then in office.  The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Trustees may fix any date, time and place for holding any special meeting of the Board of Trustees called by them.  The Board of Trustees may provide, by resolution, the date, time and place for the holding of special meetings of the Board of Trustees without notice other than such resolution.
Section 4.
              
SPECIAL MEETINGS
 
.  Notice of any special meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be delivered personally or by telephone, electronic mail, facsimile transmission, United States mail or courier to each Trustee at his or her business or residence address.  Notice by personal delivery, telephone, electronic mail or facsimile transmission shall be given at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.  Notice by United States mail shall be given at least three days prior to the meeting.  Notice by courier shall be given at least two days prior to the meeting.  Telephone notice shall be deemed to be given when the Trustee or his or her agent is personally given such notice in a telephone call to which the Trustee or his or her agent is a party.  Electronic mail notice shall be deemed to be given upon transmission of the message to the electronic mail address given to the Company by the Trustee.  Facsimile transmission notice shall be deemed to be given upon completion of the transmission of the message to the number given to the Company by the Trustee and receipt of a completed confirmation indicating receipt.  Notice by United States mail shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail properly addressed, with postage thereon prepaid.  Notice by courier shall be deemed to be given when deposited with or delivered to a courier properly addressed.  Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual, regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees need be stated in the notice, unless specifically required by statute or these Bylaws.
Section 5.
              
NOTICE
 
.  A majority of the Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum for transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Trustees, provided that, if less than a majority of such Trustees are present at said meeting, a majority of the Trustees present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice, and provided further that if, pursuant to applicable law, the Declaration of Trust or these Bylaws, the vote of a majority of a particular group of Trustees is required for action, a quorum must also include a majority of such group.
Section 6.
              
QUORUM
 
The Trustees present at a meeting which has been duly called and convened may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough Trustees to leave less than a quorum.
 
.  The action of the majority of the Trustees present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the action of the Board of Trustees, unless the concurrence of a greater proportion is required for such action by applicable law, the Declaration of Trust or these Bylaws.  If enough Trustees have withdrawn from a meeting to leave less than a quorum but the meeting is not adjourned, the action of the majority of that number of Trustees necessary to constitute a quorum at such meeting shall be the action of the Board of Trustees, unless the concurrence of a greater proportion is required for such action by applicable law or the Declaration of Trust or these Bylaws.
Section 7.
              
VOTING
 
.  At each meeting of the Board of Trustees, the Chairman of the Board or, in the absence of the Chairman, the Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, shall act as chairman of the meeting.  In the absence of both the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer, the President or in the absence of the President, a Trustee chosen by a majority of the Trustees present, shall act as chairman of the meeting.  The Secretary or, in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary, or in the absence of the Secretary and all Assistant Secretaries, an individual appointed by the chairman of the meeting, shall act as Secretary of the meeting.
Section 8.
              
ORGANIZATION
 
.  Trustees may participate in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or other communications equipment if all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other at the same time.  Participation in a meeting by these means shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Section 9.
              
TELEPHONE MEETINGS
 
.  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Trustees may be taken without a meeting, if a consent in writing or by electronic transmission to such action is given by each Trustee and is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
Section 10.
            
INFORMAL ACTION BY TRUSTEES
 
.  If for any reason any or all the Trustees cease to be Trustees, such event shall not terminate the Company or affect these Bylaws or the powers of the remaining Trustees hereunder (even if fewer than a majority of Trustees remain).  Any vacancy (including a vacancy created by an increase in the number of Trustees) shall be filled, at any regular meeting or at any special meeting, by a majority of the remaining Trustees, whether or not sufficient to constitute a quorum.  Any individual so elected as Trustee shall hold office for the unexpired term of the Trustee he or she is replacing, if any.
Section 11.
            
VACANCIES
 
.
Section 12.
            
COMPENSATION; FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
 
.  Trustees shall not receive any stated salary for their services as Trustees but, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, may receive compensation per year and/or per meeting and/or per visit to real property or other facilities owned, leased or to be acquired or leased by the Company and for any service or activity they performed or engaged in as Trustees.  Trustees may be reimbursed for expenses of attendance, if any, at each annual, regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees or of any committee thereof; and for their expenses, if any, in connection with each property visit and any other service or activity they performed or engaged in as Trustees; but nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any Trustees from serving the Company in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
(a)
           
Compensation
 
.  The Company may lend money to, guarantee an obligation of or otherwise assist a Trustee of the Company or a trustee of its direct or indirect subsidiary.  The loan, guarantee or other assistance may be with or without interest, unsecured, or secured in any manner that the Board of Trustees approves, including a pledge of Shares.
(b)
           
Financial Assistance to Trustees
 
.  No Trustee shall be liable for any loss which may occur by reason of the failure of the bank, trust company, savings and loan association, or other institution with whom moneys or shares have been deposited.
Section 13.
            
LOSS OF DEPOSITS
 
.  Unless required by law, no Trustee shall be obligated to give any bond or surety or other security for the performance of any of his or her duties.
Section 14.
            
SURETY BONDS
 
.  Each Trustee, officer, employee and agent of the Company shall, in the performance of his or her duties with respect to the Company, be fully justified and protected with regard to any act or failure to act in reliance in good faith upon the books of account or other records of the Company, upon an opinion of counsel or upon reports made to the Company by any of its officers or employees or by the adviser, accountants, appraisers or other experts or consultants selected by the Board of Trustees or officers of the Company, regardless of whether such counsel or expert may also be a Trustee.
Section 15.
            
RELIANCE
 
.  Section 2-419 of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the "MGCL") shall be available for and apply to any contract or other transaction between the Company and any of its Trustees or between the Company and any other trust, corporation, firm or other entity in which any of its Trustees is a trustee or director or has a material financial interest.
Section 16.
            
INTERESTED TRUSTEE TRANSACTIONS
 
.  The Trustees shall have no responsibility to devote their full time to the affairs of the Company.  Any Trustee or officer, employee or agent of the Company (other than a full-time officer, employee or agent of the Company), in his or her personal capacity or in a capacity as an affiliate, employee, or agent of any other person, or otherwise, may have business interests and engage in business activities similar or in addition to those of or relating to the Company.
Section 17.
            
CERTAIN RIGHTS OF TRUSTEES, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS
 
ARTICLE IV
COMMITTEES
 
.  The Board of Trustees may appoint from among its members an Executive Committee, an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Nominating CommitteeaCorporate Governance Committee and other committees, composed of one or more Trustees, to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees.
Section 1.
              
NUMBER, TENURE AND QUALIFICATIONS
,
 
.  The Board of Trustees may delegate to committees appointed under Section 1 of this Article any of the powers of the Board of Trustees.
Section 2.
              
POWERS
 
.  In the absence of any member of any such committee, the members thereof present at any meeting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may appoint another Trustee to act in the place of such absent member.  Notice of committee meetings shall be given in the same manner as notice for special meetings of the Board of Trustees.
Section 3.
              
MEETINGS
 
A majority of the members of any committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the committee and the act of a majority of the committee members present at a meeting shall be the act of such committee.  The Board of Trustees may designate a Chairman of any committee, and such Chairman or, in the absence of such a Chairman, any two members (except for a one-member committee) of any committee, may fix the time and place of its meetings unless the Board shall otherwise provide.  In the absence of any member of any such committee, the members thereof present at any meeting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may appoint another Trustee to act at the meeting in the place of such absent members.  Each committee shall keep minutes of its proceedings.
 
.  Members of a committee of the Board of Trustees may participate in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or other communications equipment if all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other at the same time.  Participation in a meeting by these means shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Section 4.
              
TELEPHONE MEETINGS
 
.  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of a committee of the Board of Trustees may be taken without a meeting, if a consent in writing or by electronic transmission to such action is given by each member of the committee and is filed with the minutes of proceedings of such committee.
Section 5.
              
INFORMAL ACTION BY COMMITTEES
 
.  Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Trustees shall have the power at any time to change the membership of any committee, to fill all vacancies, to designate alternate members to replace any absent or disqualified member or to dissolve any such committee.
Section 6.
              
VACANCIES
 
ARTICLE V
OFFICERS
 
The officers of the Company shall include a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer and may include a Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a Chief Operating Officer, a Chief Financial Officer, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries and one or more Assistant Treasurers.  In addition, the Board of Trustees may from time to time elect such other officers with such powers and duties as it shall deem necessary or desirable.  The Chief Executive Officer may from time to time appoint one or more Senior Vice Presidents or other officers below the level of Executive Vice President.  Each officer shall hold office until the officer's successor is elected and qualifies or until his or her death, resignation or removal in the manner hereinafter provided.  Any two or more offices except President and Vice President may be held by the same individual.  Election of an officer or agent shall not of itself create contract rights between the Company and such officer or agent.
Section 1.
              
GENERAL PROVISIONS
. 
 
.  Any officer or agent of the Company may be removed by the Board of Trustees, with or without cause, if in its judgment the best interests of the Company would be served thereby, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.  Any officer of the Company may resign at any time by giving written notice of his or her resignation to the Board of Trustees, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary.  Any resignation shall take effect at any time subsequent to the time specified therein or, if the time when it shall become effective is not specified therein, immediately upon its receipt.  The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective unless otherwise stated in the resignation.  Such resignation shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the Company.
Section 2.
              
REMOVAL AND RESIGNATION
 
.  A vacancy in any office may be filled by the Board of Trustees for the balance of the term.
Section 3.
              
VACANCIES
 
.  The Board of Trustees may designate a Chief Executive Officer.  In the absence of such designation, the Chairman of the Board shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  The Chief Executive Officer shall have general responsibility for implementation of the policies of the Company, as determined by the Board of Trustees, and for the management of the business and affairs of the Company.  The Chief Executive Officer may execute any deed, mortgage, bond, contract or other instrument, except in cases where the execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Trustees or by these Bylaws to some other officer or agent of the Company or shall be required by law to be otherwise executed; and in general shall perform all duties incident to the office of Chief Executive Officer and such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Trustees from time to time.
Section 4.
              
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
 
.  The Board of Trustees may designate a Chief Operating Officer.  The Chief Operating Officer shall have the responsibilities and duties as set forth by the Board of Trustees or the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 5.
              
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER
 
.  The Board of Trustees may designate a Chief Financial Officer.  The Chief Financial Officer shall have the responsibilities and duties as set forth by the Board of Trustees or the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 6.
              
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
 
.  The Board of Trustees shall designate a Chairman of the Board.  The Chairman of the Board shall preside over the meetings of the Board of Trustees and of the shareholders at which he or she shall be present and shall in general oversee all of the business and affairs of the Company.  The Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him, her or them by the Board of Trustees.
Section 7.
              
CHAIRMAN AND VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
 
.  In the absence of a Chief Executive Officer, the President shall in general supervise and control all of the business and affairs of the Company.  In the absence of the designation of a Chief Operating Officer by the Board of Trustees, the President shall be the Chief Operating Officer and shall be ex officio a member of all committees that may, from time to time, be constituted by the Board of Trustees.  The Chief Executive Officer may execute any deed, mortgage, bond, contract or other instrument, except in cases where the execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Trustees or by these Bylaws to some other officer or agent of the Company or shall be required by law to be otherwise executed; and in general shall perform all duties incident to the office of Chief Executive Officer and such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Trustees from time to time.
Section 8.
              
PRESIDENT
 
.  In the absence of the President or in the event of a vacancy in such office, the Vice President (or in the event there be more than one Vice President, the Vice Presidents in the order designated at the time of their appointment or election or, in the absence of any designation, then in the order of their appointment or election) shall perform the duties of the President and when so acting shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President; and shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to such Vice President by the President or by the Board of Trustees.  The Board of Trustees may designate one or more Vice Presidents as Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, or as Vice President for particular areas of responsibility.
Section 9.
              
VICE PRESIDENTS
 
.  The Secretary shall (a) keep the minutes of the proceedings of the shareholders, the Board of Trustees and committees of the Board of Trustees in one or more books provided for that purpose; (b) see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws or as required by law; (c) be custodian of the trust records and of the seal of the Company; (d) keep a register of the post office address of each shareholder which shall be furnished to the Secretary by such shareholder; (e) have general charge of the share transfer books of the Company; and (f) in general perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or by the Board of Trustees.
Section 10.
            
SECRETARY
 
.  The Treasurer shall have the custody of the funds and securities of the Company and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Company and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Company in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Trustees.  In the absence of a designation of a Chief Financial Officer by the Board of Trustees, the Treasurer shall be the Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
Section 11.
            
TREASURER
 
 
The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Company as may be ordered by the Board of Trustees, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the President and Board of Trustees, at the regular meetings of the Board of Trustees or whenever it may so require, an account of all his or her transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Company.
 
If required by the Board of Trustees, the Treasurer shall give the Company a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Trustees for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and for the restoration to the Company, in case of his or her death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, moneys and other property of whatever kind in his or her possession or under his or her control belonging to the Company.
 
.  The Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers, in general, shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Secretary or Treasurer, respectively, or by the President or the Board of Trustees.  The Assistant Treasurers shall, if required by the Board of Trustees, give bonds for the faithful performance of their duties in such sums and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Trustees.
Section 12.
            
ASSISTANT SECRETARIES AND ASSISTANT TREASURERS
 
.  The General Counsel shall be the Chief Legal Officer of the Company, with general control of all matters of legal import concerning the Company.  The General Counsel shall have such other powers and duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Trustees or the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 13.
            
GENERAL COUNSEL
 
.  The salaries and other compensation of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Trustees or any other committee of the Board of Trustees within the scope of its delegated authority and no officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary or other compensation by reason of the fact that he or she is also a Trustee.
Section 14.
            
SALARIES
 
ARTICLE VI
CONTRACTS, LOANS, CHECKS AND DEPOSITS
 
.  The Board of Trustees or any other committee of the Board of Trustees within the scope of its delegated authority may authorize any officer or agent to enter into any contract or to execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Company and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.  Any agreement, deed, mortgage, lease or other document shall be valid and binding upon the Company when authorized or ratified by action of the Board of Trustees or such committee and executed by an authorized person.
Section 1.
              
CONTRACTS
 
.  All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Company shall be signed by such officer or agent of the Company in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by the Board of Trustees.
Section 2.
              
CHECKS AND DRAFTS
 
.  All funds of the Company not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Company in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board of Trustees may designate.
Section 3.
              
DEPOSITS
 
ARTICLE VII
SHARES
 
.  Except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, this Section shall not be interpreted to limit the authority of the Board of Trustees to issue some or all of the shares of beneficial interest of any or all of the Company's classes or series of shares without certificates.   Each shareholder, upon written request to the Secretary of the Company, shall be entitled to a certificate or certificates which shall represent and certify the number of shares of each class of beneficial interests held by him in the Company.  Each certificate shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President and countersigned by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer and may be sealed with the seal, if any, of the Company.  The signatures may be either manual or facsimile.  Certificates shall be consecutively numbered; and if the Company shall, from time to time, issue several classes of shares, each class may have its own number series.  A certificate is valid and may be issued whether or not an officer who signed it is still an officer when it is issued.  Each certificate representing shares which are restricted as to their transferability or voting powers, which are preferred or limited as to their dividends or as to their allocable portion of the assets upon liquidation or which are redeemable at the option of the Company, shall have a statement of such restriction, limitation, preference or redemption provision, or a summary thereof, plainly stated on the certificate.  In lieu of such statement or summary, the Company may set forth upon the face or back of the certificate a statement that the Company will furnish to any shareholder, upon request and without charge, a full statement of such information.
Section 1.
              
CERTIFICATES
 
.  Certificates shall be treated as negotiable and title thereto and to the shares they represent shall be transferred by delivery thereof to the same extent as those of a Maryland stock corporation.  Upon surrender to the Company or the transfer agent of the Company of a share certificate duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Company shall issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books.
Section 2.
              
TRANSFERS
 
The Company shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares as the holder in fact thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of the State of Maryland.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, transfers of shares of beneficial interest of the Company will be subject in all respects to the Declaration of Trust and all of the terms and conditions contained therein.
 
.  Any officer designated by the Board of Trustees, the President, the Secretary or the Treasurer may direct a new certificate to be issued in
Section 3.
              
REPLACEMENT CERTIFICATE
 
place of any certificate previously issued by the Company alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed.  When authorizing the issuance of a new certificate, an officer designated by the Board of Trustees may, in his or her discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate or the owner's legal representative to advertise the same in such manner as he or she shall require and/or to give bond, with sufficient surety, to the Company to indemnify it against any loss or claim which may arise as a result of the issuance of a new certificate.
 
.  The Board of Trustees may set, in advance, a record date for the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or determining shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or the allotment of any other rights, or in order to make a determination of shareholders for any other proper purpose.  Such date, in any case, shall not be prior to the close of business on the day the record date is fixed and shall be not more than 90 days and, in the case of a meeting of shareholders not less than ten days, before the date on which the meeting or particular action requiring such determination of shareholders of record is to be held or taken.
Section 4.
              
CLOSING OF TRANSFER BOOKS OR FIXING OF RECORD DATE
 
In lieu of fixing a record date, the Board of Trustees may provide that the share transfer books shall be closed for a stated period but not longer than 20 days.  If the share transfer books are closed for the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders, such books shall be closed for at least ten days before the date of such meeting.
 
If no record date is fixed and the share transfer books are not closed for the determination of shareholders, (a) the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall be at the close of business on the day on which the notice of meeting is mailed or the 30th day before the meeting, whichever is the closer date to the meeting; and (b) the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive payment of a dividend or an allotment of any other rights shall be the close of business on the day on which the resolution of the Board of Trustees, authorizing the dividend or allotment of rights, is adopted.
 
When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made as provided in this section, such determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof, except when (i) the determination has been made through the closing of the transfer books and the stated period of closing has expired or (ii) the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the record date fixed for the original meeting, in either of which case a new record date shall be determined as set forth herein.
 
.  The Company shall maintain at its principal office or at the office of its counsel, accountants or transfer agent, an original or duplicate share ledger containing the name and address of each shareholder and the number of shares of each class held by such shareholder.
Section 5.
              
SHARE LEDGER
 
.  The Board of Trustees may issue fractional shares or provide for the issuance of scrip, all on such terms and under such conditions as they may determine.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Declaration of
Section 6.
              
FRACTIONAL SHARES; ISSUANCE OF UNITS
 
Trust or these Bylaws, the Board of Trustees may issue units consisting of different securities of the Company.  Any security issued in a unit shall have the same characteristics as any identical securities issued by the Company, except that the Board of Trustees may provide that for a specified period securities of the Company issued in such unit may be transferred on the books of the Company only in such unit.
 
ARTICLE VIII
ACCOUNTING YEAR
 
The Board of Trustees shall have the power, from time to time, to fix the fiscal year of the Company by a duly adopted resolution.
 
ARTICLE IX
DISTRIBUTIONS
 
.  Dividends and other distributions upon the shares of beneficial interest of the Company may be authorized by the Board of Trustees, subject to the provisions of law and the Declaration of Trust.  Dividends and other distributions may be paid in cash, property or shares of the Company, subject to the provisions of law and the Declaration of Trust.
Section 1.
              
AUTHORIZATION
 
.  Before payment of any dividends or other distributions, there may be set aside out of any assets of the Company available for dividends or other distributions such sum or sums as the Board of Trustees may from time to time, in its absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve fund for contingencies, for equalizing dividends or other distributions, for repairing or maintaining any property of the Company or for such other purpose as the Board of Trustees shall determine to be in the best interest of the Company, and the Board of Trustees may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Section 2.
              
CONTINGENCIES
 
ARTICLE X
PROHIBITED INVESTMENTS AND ACTIVITIES
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Declaration of Trust, the Company shall not enter into any transaction referred to in (i), (ii) or (iii) below which it does not believe is in the best interests of the Company, and will not, without the approval of a majority of the disinterested Trustees, (i) acquire from or sell to any Trustee, officer or employee of the Company, any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise in which a Trustee, officer or employee of the Company owns more than a one percent interest or any affiliate of any of the foregoing, any of the assets or other property of the Company, except for the acquisition directly or indirectly of certain properties or interest therein, directly or indirectly, through entities in which it owns an interest in connection with the initial public offering of shares by the Company or pursuant to agreements entered into in connection with such offering, which properties shall be described in the prospectus relating to such initial public offering, (ii) make any loan to or borrow from any of the foregoing persons or (iii) engage in any other transaction with
 
any of the foregoing persons.  Each such transaction will be in all respects on such terms as are, at the time of the transaction and under the circumstances then prevailing, fair and reasonable to the Company.  Subject to the provisions of the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees may from time to time adopt, amend, revise or terminate any policy or policies with respect to investments by the Company as it shall deem appropriate in its sole discretion.
 
ARTICLE XI
SEAL
 
.  The Board of Trustees may authorize the adoption of a seal by the Company.  The seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Company and the year of its formation. The Board of Trustees may authorize one or more duplicate seals and provide for the custody thereof.
Section 1.
              
SEAL
 
.  Whenever the Company is permitted or required to affix its seal to a document, it shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of any law, rule or regulation relating to a seal to place the word "(SEAL)" adjacent to the signature of the person authorized to execute the document on behalf of the Company.
Section 2.
              
AFFIXING SEAL
 
ARTICLE XII
INDEMNIFICATION AND ADVANCE OF EXPENSES
 
To the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law in effect from time to time, the Company shall indemnify (a) any Trustee, officer or shareholder or any former Trustee, officer or shareholder (including among the foregoing, for all purposes of this Article XII and without limitation, any individual who, while a Trustee, officer or shareholder and at the express request of the Company, serves or has served another real estate investment trust, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or any other enterprise as a director, officer, shareholder, partner or trustee of such real estate investment trust, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise) who has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of a proceeding to which he or she was made a party by reason of service in such capacity, against reasonable expenses incurred by him in connection with the proceeding, (b) any Trustee or officer or any former Trustee or officer against any claim or liability to which he or she may become subject by reason of such status unless it is established that (i) his or her act or omission was material to the matter giving rise to the proceeding and was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (ii) he or she actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services or (iii) in the case of a criminal proceeding, he or she had reasonable cause to believe that his or her act or omission was unlawful and (c) each shareholder or former shareholder against any claim or liability to which he or she may become subject by reason of such status.  In addition, the Company shall, without requiring a preliminary determination of the ultimate entitlement to indemnification, pay or reimburse, in advance of final disposition of a proceeding, reasonable expenses incurred by a Trustee, officer or shareholder or former Trustee, officer or shareholder made a party to a proceeding by reason such status, provided that, in the case of a Trustee or officer, the Company shall have received (i) a written affirmation by the Trustee or officer of his or her good faith belief that he or she has met
 
the applicable standard of conduct necessary for indemnification by the Company as authorized by these Bylaws and (ii) a written undertaking by or on his or her behalf to repay the amount paid or reimbursed by the Company if it shall ultimately be determined that the applicable standard of conduct was not met.  The Company may, with the approval of its Board of Trustees, provide such indemnification or payment or reimbursement of expenses to any Trustee, officer or shareholder or any former Trustee, officer or shareholder who served a predecessor of the Company and to any employee or agent of the Company or a predecessor of the Company.  Neither the amendment nor repeal of this Article, nor the adoption or amendment of any other provision of the Declaration of Trust or these Bylaws inconsistent with this Article, shall apply to or affect in any respect the applicability of this Article with respect to any act or failure to act which occurred prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption.
 
Any indemnification or payment or reimbursement of the expenses permitted by these Bylaws shall be furnished in accordance with the procedures provided for indemnification or payment or reimbursement of expenses, as the case may be, under Section 2-418 of the MGCL for directors of Maryland corporations.  The Company may provide to Trustees, officers and shareholders such other and further indemnification or payment or reimbursement of expenses, as the case may be, to the fullest extent permitted by the MGCL, as in effect from time to time, for directors of Maryland corporations.
 
ARTICLE XIII
WAIVER OF NOTICE
 
Whenever any notice is required to be given pursuant to the Declaration of Trust or Bylaws or pursuant to applicable law, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice.  Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of any meeting need be set forth in the waiver of notice, unless specifically required by statute.  The attendance of any person at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where such person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
 
ARTICLE XIV
AMENDMENT OF BYLAWS
 
The Board of Trustees shall have the exclusive power to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of these Bylaws and to make new Bylaws.
 
ARTICLE XV
 
MISCELLANEOUS
 
All references to the Declaration of Trust shall include any amendments and/or restatements thereto, whether effective prior or subsequent to the date hereof.


