FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20060524091153.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): May 24, 2006
 
 
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
              
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
              
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events
Equity Residential (the "Company") is re-issuing in an updated format its historical financial statements to satisfy SEC requirements as they relate to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, .
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
In compliance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, the results of operations of the Company's consolidated properties that were sold during the first three months of 2006 were reported as a component of discontinued operations for each period presented (including the comparable period of the prior year) in the Company's first quarter 2006 quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on May 8, 2006. Under SEC requirements, the same reclassification as discontinued operations is required for previously issued annual financial statements for each of the three years shown in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K, if those financial statements are incorporated by reference in subsequent filings with the SEC made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, even though those financial statements relate to periods prior to the sale date.
In addition, the Company has also allocated a portion of Minority Interests  Operating Partnership out of continuing operations and into discontinued operations to conform with its reclassified consolidated statements of operations presentation in the first quarter 2006 quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
The aforementioned reclassifications have no effect on the Company's previously reported net income available to Common Shares or funds from operations ("FFO").
This report on Form 8-K updates Items 6, 7, 8 and 15 (Exhibit 12 only) of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 to reclassify those properties sold during the first three months of 2006 as a component of discontinued operations for each period presented in the annual report and to allocate Minority Interests  Operating Partnership between continuing and discontinued operations. All other items of the Company's Form 10-K remain unchanged. No attempt has been made to update matters in the Form 10-K except to the extent expressly provided above.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
4

Exhibit 23.1
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Forms S-3 No. 333-45533, No. 333-39289, No. 333-100631, No. 333-63176, No. 333-80835, No. 333-72961, No. 333-12983, No. 333-06873, No. 33-97680 and No. 33-84974; Forms S-8 No. 333-06869, No. 333-107244, No. 333-83403, No. 333-102609, No. 333-66257 and No. 333-88237; and Forms S-4 No. 333-44576 and No. 333-35873) of Equity Residential and in the related Prospectuses of our report dated February 28, 2006 (except for the fourth paragraph of Note 21, for which the date is March 2, 2006 and Notes 12, 13 and 20, for which the date is May 22, 2006), with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Equity Residential, included in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Chicago, Illinois May 22, 2006
5

Exhibit 99.1
Item 6.    Selected Financial Data
read in conjunction with all of the financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 8-K. The historical operating and balance sheet data have been derived from the historical financial statements of the Company. All amounts have also been restated in accordance with the discontinued operations provisions of SFAS No. 144. Certain capitalized terms as used herein are defined in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following table sets forth selected financial and operating information on a historical basis for the Company. The following information should be
 
6
(1)   The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") defines funds from operations ("FFO") (April 2002 White Paper) as net income (computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP")), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis. The April 2002 White Paper states that gain or loss on sales of property is excluded from FFO for previously depreciated operating properties only. Once the Company commences the conversion of units to condominiums, it simultaneously discontinues depreciation of such property. See Item 7 for a reconciliation of net income to FFO.
(2)   The Company believes that FFO is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of the operating performance of a real estate company, because it is a recognized measure of performance by the real estate industry and by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of depreciable property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. FFO in and of itself does not represent net income or net cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, FFO should not be exclusively considered as an alternative to net income or to net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP or as a measure of liquidity. The Company's calculation of FFO may differ from other real estate companies due to, among other items, variations in cost capitalization policies for capital expenditures and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate companies.
Item 7.          Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Overview
than entities owning interests in the Unconsolidated Properties and certain other entities in which the Company has investments, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary entity has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined are as defined elsewhere in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition of the Company should be read in connection with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. Due to the Company's ability to control the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries other
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions made by management. While the Company's management believes the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, such information is inherently subject to uncertainties and may involve certain risks, which could cause actual results, performance, or achievements of the Company to differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond management's control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events. The Company assumes no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements because of subsequent events. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the following:
Forward-looking statements in this Item 7 as well as elsewhere in the Annual Report on Form 10-K are intended to be made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private
We intend to actively acquire and develop multifamily properties for rental operations and/or conversion into condominiums, as well as upgrade and sell existing properties as individual condominiums. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired or condominium conversion property up to standards established for its intended market position or to otherwise develop a property. Additionally, we expect that other major real estate investors with significant capital will compete with us for attractive investment opportunities or may also develop properties in markets where we focus our development efforts. This competition may increase prices for multifamily properties or decrease the price at which we expect to sell individual condominiums. Upon conversion of properties to condominiums, we have increased our risk related to construction performed during the conversion. Condominium associations may assert that the construction performed was defective, resulting in litigation and/or settlement discussions. We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms. We also
                 
7
plan to develop more properties ourselves in addition to co-investing with our development partners for either the rental or condominium market, depending on opportunities in each sub-market. This may increase the overall level of risk associated with our developments. The total number of development units, cost of development and estimated completion dates are subject to uncertainties arising from changing economic conditions (such as the cost of labor and construction materials), competition and local government regulation.
Sources of capital to the Company or labor and materials required for maintenance, repair, capital expenditure or development are more expensive than anticipated;
                 
Occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by national and local economic and market conditions including, without limitation, new construction of multifamily housing, slow employment growth, availability of low interest mortgages for single-family home buyers and the potential for geopolitical instability, all of which are beyond the Company's control; and
                 
Additional factors as discussed in Part I of the Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those under "Risk Factors".
                 
hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Forward-looking statements and related uncertainties are also included in Note 5 and 11 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date
Results of Operations
objectives and operating strategy, the Company has continued to invest or recycle its capital investment in apartment properties located in strategically targeted markets during the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In summary, we:
In conjunction with our business
December 31, 2005:
Year Ended
                 
Acquired $2.5 billion of apartment properties consisting of forty-one properties and 12,059 units, and $138.3 million of land parcels, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets; and
                 
Sold $1.4 billion of apartment properties consisting of 50 properties and 12,848 units, as well as 2,241 condominium units for $593.3 million and five land parcels for $108.3 million.
2004
Year Ended December 31,
:
                 
Acquired $900.8 million of apartment properties consisting of twenty-four properties and 6,182 units, as well as $12.4 million of land parcels; and
                 
Sold $787.8 million of apartment properties consisting of fifty-six properties and 14,159 units as well as 977 condominium units for $177.3 million and two land parcels for $27.9 million.
The Company's primary financial measure for evaluating each of its apartment communities is net operating income ("NOI"). NOI represents rental income less property and maintenance expense, real estate tax and insurance expense, and property management expense. The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of the operating performance of a real estate company because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Company's apartment communities.
Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2005 and 2004 (the "2005 Same Store Properties"), which represented 154,854 units, impacted the Company's results of operations. Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2004 and 2003 (the "2004 Same Store Properties"), which
8
represented 162,201 units, also impacted the Company's results of operations. Both the 2005 Same Store Properties and 2004 Same Store Properties are discussed in the following paragraphs.
The Company's acquisition, disposition, completed development and consolidation of previously unconsolidated property and variable interest entity activities also impacted overall results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. The impacts of these activities are also discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs.
Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2005 to the year ended December 31, 2004
when
For the year ended December 31, 2005, income from continuing operations, net of minority interests increased by approximately $57.1 million
compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in continuing operations, net of minority interests is discussed below.
Revenues from the 2005 Same Store Properties increased $61.9 million primarily as a result of lower concessions provided residents and a slight increase in average per unit and occupancy rates. Expenses from the 2005 Same Store Properties increased $36.2 million primarily due to higher payroll, utility costs and real estate taxes. The following tables provide comparative revenue, expense, NOI and weighted average occupancy for the 2005 Same Store Properties:
 
Results have not been updated to remove properties sold in the first three months of 2006.
(1)
         
Year 2005 expenses exclude $11.1 million of uninsured property damage caused by Hurricane Wilma. Year 2004 expenses exclude $15.2 million of uninsured property damage caused by Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne.
(2)
         
 
The following table presents a reconciliation of operating income per the consolidated statements of operations included in the original Form 10-K to NOI for the 2005 Same Store Properties (table has not been updated to reflect discontinued operations treatment for properties sold in the first three months of 2006).
 
9
(1)  Hurricane property damage net of reimbursement from insurance company.
For properties that the Company acquired prior to January 1, 2005 and expects to continue to own through December 31, 2006, the Company anticipates the following same store results for the full year ending December 31, 2006:
 
These 2006 assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.
Non-same store operating results increased $78.6 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2005 and 2004 as well as our corporate housing business.
Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, decreased by $1.6 million primarily as a result of lower income earned from Ft. Lewis and managing fewer properties for third parties and unconsolidated entities. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company managed 16,269 units and 17,988 units, respectively, for third parties and unconsolidated entities.
Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company's properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses increased by approximately $11.2 million or 13.1%. This increase is primarily attributable to higher overall payroll costs including bonuses, long-term compensation costs and an increase of the Company's match for employee 401(k) contributions.
Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased $60.3 million primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on newly acquired properties and capital expenditures for all properties owned.
General and administrative expenses, which include corporate operating expenses, increased approximately $22.5 million between the periods under comparison. This increase was primarily due to higher executive compensation expense due to severance costs of $9.8 million for several executive officers, $7.9 million of additional accruals specific to performance shares for selected executive officers
10
and a $2.5 million profit sharing accrual to be paid in the first quarter of 2006. The Company anticipates that general and administrative expenses will approximate $50.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2006. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.
Interest and other income from continuing operations increased approximately $59.3 million, primarily as a result of the $57.1 million in cash received for the Company's ownership interest in Rent.com, which was acquired by eBay, Inc.
Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $55.8 million primarily as a result of higher overall debt balances as well as higher variable interest rates. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $13.7 million as compared to $14.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2005 was 6.16% as compared to 5.87% for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Income (loss) from investments in unconsolidated entities increased approximately $7.8 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily the result of consolidation of properties that were previously unconsolidated in the first quarter of 2004.
Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities decreased $3.3 million, primarily due to a decrease in the number of unconsolidated entities sold.
Net gain on sales of land parcels increased $24.8 million, primarily due to an increase in the number of land parcels sold and large gains recorded on two land parcels located in Tyson's Corner, Virginia.
G
ain on sales of discontinued operations, net of minority interests increased approximately $354.2 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily the result of higher per unit sales prices and lower real estate net book values for properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the same period in 2004 as well as higher condominium sales. The Company recognized $91.6 million and $32.1 million of net incremental gain on sales of condominium units (net of provision for income taxes) for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Discontinued operations, net of minority interests, decreased approximately $21.8 million between the periods under comparison. The decrease in revenues and expenses between period results from the timing, size and number of properties sold. Any property sold after December 31, 2004 will include a full period's results in the year ended December 31, 2004 but minimal to no results in the year ended December 31, 2005. See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2004 to the year ended December 31, 2003
For the year ended December 31, 2004, income from continuing operations, net of minority interests decreased by approximately $12.8 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 due to the reasons noted below.
Revenues from the 2004 Same Store Properties increased by $14.1 million primarily as a result of lower concessions provided residents and a slight increase in occupancy rates. Expenses from the 2004 Same Store Properties increased $22.5 million primarily due to higher payroll, utility costs and real estate taxes. The following tables provide comparative revenue, expense, NOI and weighted average occupancy for the 2004 Same Store Properties:
11
 
Year 2004 expenses exclude $15.2 million of uninsured property damage caused by Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne.
(1)
         
 
Non-same store operating results are primarily from newly acquired properties not yet included as 2004 Same Store Properties and the consolidation of all previously unconsolidated development projects.
Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, decreased by $3.8 million primarily as a result of lower income earned from Ft. Lewis and managing fewer properties for third parties and unconsolidated entities. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company managed 17,988 units and 18,475 units, respectively, for third parties and unconsolidated entities.
Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company's properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses increased by approximately $8.1 million or 10.4%. This increase is primarily attributable to higher payroll costs, including bonuses and long-term compensation costs as well as severance costs for certain employees. In addition, the property management company experienced slightly higher costs for travel, temporary help, internal conferences and legal and professional fees.
Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased $59.2 million primarily as a result of the consolidation of previously unconsolidated projects and properties acquired after December 31, 2003, many of which had significantly higher per unit acquisition costs than properties previously acquired, and also due to additional depreciation on capital expenditures for all properties owned.
General and administrative expenses, which include corporate operating expenses, increased approximately $12.3 million between the periods under comparison. This increase was primarily due to the costs of consulting services rendered to increase operating efficiencies and increased litigation and internal control costs partially offset by $1.4 million of immediate expense recognition related to options granted in the first quarter of 2003 to the Company's former chief executive officer. Consulting services were contracted to enhance resident satisfaction/retention, unit pricing and expense procurement/reduction.
12
The Company recorded impairment charges on its technology investments of approximately $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. See Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
Interest and other income from continuing operations decreased approximately $6.6 million, primarily as a result of lower balances available for investments including deposits in tax deferred exchange accounts and collateral agreements related to development projects.
Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $15.5 million. This increase was primarily attributable to increases in mortgage and unsecured note balances and lower capitalized interest. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $14.0 million as compared to $20.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. This capitalization of interest primarily related to Partially Owned Properties (consolidated) engaged in development activities. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2004 was 5.87% as compared to 6.36% for the year ended December 31, 2003.
Loss from investments in unconsolidated entities decreased approximately $2.8 million between the periods under comparison. This decrease is primarily the result of consolidation of properties that were previously unconsolidated, partially offset by an increase in realized losses on the settlement of derivative instruments.
Gain on sales of discontinued operations, net of minority interests increased approximately $9.0 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily the result of an increase in the number of condominium units sold.
Discontinued operations, net of minority interests, decreased approximately $47.2 million between the periods under comparison. See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
For the Year Ended December 31, 2005
January 1, 2005, the Company had approximately $83.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and $484.6 million available under its line of credit (net of $65.4 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and not available for borrowing). After taking into effect the various transactions discussed in the following paragraphs and the net cash provided by operating activities, the Company's cash and cash equivalents balance at December 31, 2005 was approximately $88.8 million and the amount available on the Company's line of credit was $780.8 million (net of $50.2 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and not available for borrowing).
As of
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company generated proceeds from various transactions, which included the following:
Disposed of fifty-six properties (including various individual condominium units) and five land parcels and received net proceeds of approximately $2.0 billion;
                 
Obtained $496.2 million in net proceeds from the issuance of $500.0 million of ten and one-half year 5.125% fixed rate public notes;
                 
Obtained $280.1 million in new mortgage financing;
                 
Obtained $57.1 million for its ownership interest in Rent.com;
                 
Received $25.0 million in full redemption of 1,000,000 shares of Wellsford 8.25% Convertible Trust Preferred Securities; and
                 
Issued approximately 2.5million Common Shares and received net proceeds of $63.1 million.
                 
13
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the above proceeds were primarily utilized to:
Acquire forty-one properties and seven land parcels (including one additional unit at one property) utilizing cash of $2.2 billion;
                 
Repay $470.4 million of mortgage loans;
                 
Repay $194.3 million of fixed rate public notes;
                 
Redeem or repurchase the Series B through F Preference Interests at a liquidation value of $146.0 million;
                 
Redeem the Series B Preferred Shares at a liquidation value of $125.0 million; and
                 
Invest $180.0 million primarily in development projects.
                 
Depending on its analysis of market prices, economic conditions, and other opportunities for the investment of available capital, the Company may repurchase its Common Shares pursuant to its existing share buyback program authorized by the Board of Trustees. The Company did not repurchase any of its Common Shares during the year ended December 31, 2005 but did repurchase $31.5 million (719,800 shares at an average price per share of $43.76) during February 2006 to offset the issuance of 661,962 OP Units in connection with a property acquisition and to partially offset restricted shares granted in February 2006. The Company is authorized to repurchase approximately $553.5 million of additional Common Shares.
The Company's total debt summary and debt maturity schedule as of December 31, 2005, are as follows:
(1)    Net of the effect of any derivative instruments
14
 
Includes $150.0 million of 7.57% unsecured debt with a final maturity of 2026 that is putable in 2006. Also includes $215.0 million outstanding on the Company's short-term $600.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. This facility was terminated on January 20, 2006 in conjunction with the Company's $400.0 million unsecured note issuance which closed on January 19, 2006.
(1)
           
Includes $554.0 million outstanding on the Company's long-term unsecured revolving credit facility which matures on May 29, 2008.
(2)
           
As of March 1, 2006, $580.0 million in debt securities remains available for issuance by the Operating Partnership under a registration statement the SEC declared effective in June 2003 and $956.5 million in equity securities remains available for issuance by the Company under a registration statement the SEC declared effective in February 1998.
The Company's "Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio" as of December 31, 2005 is presented in the following table. The Company calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Common Shares and assumed conversion of all OP Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company's Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange; (ii) the "Common Share Equivalent" of all convertible preferred shares and preference interests/units; and (iii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preferred shares and preference interests outstanding.
15
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
              
The Series G and H Preference Interests were called for redemption on February 10, 2006, to be effective March 21, 2006 and March 23, 2006, respectively. See Note 3 in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional discussion.
The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements, including capital expenditures related to maintaining its existing properties and certain scheduled unsecured note and mortgage note repayments, generally through its working capital, net cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under its revolving credit facilities. The Company considers its cash provided by operating activities to be adequate to meet operating requirements and payments of distributions. The
16
Company also expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled unsecured note and mortgage debt maturities, property acquisitions, financing of construction and development activities and capital improvements through the issuance of unsecured notes and equity securities, including additional OP Units, and proceeds received from the disposition of certain properties. In addition, the Company has significant unencumbered properties available to secure additional mortgage borrowings in the event that the public capital markets are unavailable or the cost of alternative sources of capital is too high. The fair value of and cash flow from these unencumbered properties are in excess of the requirements the Company must maintain in order to comply with covenants under its unsecured notes and line of credit. Of the $16.6 billion in investment in real estate on the Company's balance sheet at December 31, 2005, $10.8 billion or 65.3%, was unencumbered.
As of March 1, 2006, the Operating Partnership has a revolving credit facility with potential borrowings of up to $1.0 billion. This facility matures in May 2008 and may, among other potential uses, be used to fund property acquisitions, costs for certain properties under development and short term liquidity requirements. As of March 1, 2006, $520.0 million was outstanding under this facility (and $54.8 million was restricted and dedicated to support letters of credit).
See Note 21 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the events which occurred subsequent to December 31, 2005.
Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate
Our policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize expenditures that improve the value of the property or extend the useful life of the component asset of the property. We track improvements to real estate in two major categories and several subcategories:
Replacements. These include:
            
(inside the unit)
carpets and hardwood floors;
                 
appliances;
                 
mechanical equipment such as individual furnace/air units, hot water heaters, etc;
                 
furniture and fixtures such as kitchen/bath cabinets, light fixtures, ceiling fans, sinks, tubs, toilets, mirrors, countertops, etc;
                 
flooring such as vinyl, linoleum or tile; and
                 
blinds/shades.
                 
All replacements are depreciated over a five-year estimated useful life. We expense as incurred all maintenance and turnover costs such as cleaning, interior painting of individual units and the repair of any replacement item noted above.
Building improvements (). These include:
            
outside the unit
roof replacement and major renovations;
                 
paving or major resurfacing of parking lots, curbs and sidewalks;
                 
amenities and common areas such as pools, exterior sports and playground equipment, lobbies, clubhouses, laundry rooms, alarm and security systems and offices;
                 
major building mechanical equipment systems;
                 
interior and exterior structural repair and exterior painting and siding;
                 
major landscaping and grounds improvement; and
                 
vehicles and office and maintenance equipment.
                 
All building improvements are depreciated over a five to ten-year estimated useful life. We expense as incurred all recurring expenditures that do not improve the value of the asset or extend its useful life.
17
For the year ended December 31, 2005, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $232.5 million. This includes the following detail (amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts):
 
 
Total units exclude 15,899 unconsolidated units.
(1)
            
Wholly Owned Properties acquired prior to January 1, 2003.
(2)
            
Wholly Owned Properties acquired during 2003, 2004 and 2005. Per unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 20,828 units.
(3)
            
Includes properties either Partially Owned or sold during the period, commercial space, condominium conversions and $6.8 million included in building improvements spent on nine specific assets related to major renovations and repositioning of these assets.
(4)
            
For the year ended December 31, 2004, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $212.2 million. This includes the following detail (amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts):
 
Total units exclude 16,218 unconsolidated units.
(1)
            
Wholly Owned Properties acquired prior to January 1, 2002.
(2)
            
Wholly Owned Properties acquired during 2002, 2003 and 2004. Per unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 17,577 units.
(3)
            
Includes properties either Partially Owned or sold during the period, commercial space, condominium conversions and $6.6 million included in building improvements spent on fifteen specific assets related to major renovations and repositioning of these assets.
(4)
            
million for capital expenditures for replacements and building improvements for all consolidated properties, exclusive of condominium conversion properties, in 2006. This includes an average of approximately $1,000 per unit for capital improvements for established properties.
The Company expects to fund approximately $170.0
18
million. The Company expects to fund approximately $10.8 million in total additions to non-real estate property in 2006.
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company's total non-real estate capital additions, such as computer software, computer equipment, and furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements to the Company's property management offices and its corporate offices, was approximately $17.6
Improvements to real estate and additions to non-real estate property were funded from net cash provided by operating activities.
Derivative Instruments
In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the effect of interest rate changes. The Company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate risk on debt instruments.
The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the Company has not sustained a material loss from those instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives.
See Note 11in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of derivative instruments at December 31, 2005.
Other
Minority Interests as of December 31, 2005 decreased by $113.4 million when compared to December 31, 2004. The primary factors that impacted this account in the Company's consolidated statements of operations and balance sheets during the year ended December 31, 2005 were:
The redemption or repurchase of 2.9 million shares of Series B through F Preference Interests with a combined liquidation value of $146.0 million and a premium on redemption of $4.1 million (see Note 3 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion);
                 
Distributions declared to Minority Interests, which amounted to $36.1 million (excluding Junior Preference Unit and Preference Interest distributions);
                 
The allocation of income from operations to holders of OP Units in the amount of $58.5 million;
                 
The issuance of 956,751 OP Units valued at $33.7 million at an average price of $35.18 per unit;
                 
The conversion of 1.1 million OP Units into Common Shares valued at $24.2 million at an average price of $22.29 per unit.
                 
Total distributions paid in January 2006 amounted to $147.2 million (excluding distributions on Partially Owned Properties), which included certain distributions declared during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2005.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations
The Company has co-invested in various properties that are unconsolidated and accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Management does not believe these investments have a materially different impact upon the Company's liquidity, capital resources, credit or market risk than its property management and ownership activities. The nature and business purpose of these ventures are as follows:
                             
Institutional Ventures  During 2000 and 2001, the Company entered into ventures with an unaffiliated partner.  At the respective closing dates, the Company sold and/or contributed 45 properties containing 10,846 units to these ventures and retained a 25% ownership interest in the
19
ventures. The Company's joint venture partner contributed cash equal to 75% of the agreed-upon equity value of the properties comprising the ventures, which was then distributed to the Company. The Company's strategy with respect to these ventures was to reduce its concentration of properties in a variety of markets.
                             
Other  As of December 31, 2005, the Company has ownership interests in eleven properties containing 1,360 units acquired in a prior merger. The current weighted average ownership percentage is 11.0%. The Company's strategy with respect to these interests is either to acquire a majority ownership or sell the Company's interest.
As of December 31, 2005, the Company has six projects totaling 1,760 units in various stages of development with estimated completion dates ranging through March 31, 2008. The primary development agreements currently in place have the following key terms:
The first development partner has the right, at any time following completion of a project subject to the agreement, to stipulate a value for such project and offer to sell its interest in the project to the Company based on such value. If the Company chooses not to purchase the interest, the Company must agree to a sale of the project to an unrelated third party at such value. The Company's partner must exercise this right as to all projects subject to the agreement within five years after the receipt of the final certificate of occupancy on the last developed property.  In connection with this development agreement, the Company has an obligation to provide up to $40.0 million in credit enhancements to guarantee a portion of the third party construction financing. As of the date of this filing, the Company had no amounts outstanding related to this credit enhancement. The Company would be required to perform under this agreement only if there was a material default under a third party construction mortgage agreement. This agreement expires no later than December 31, 2018. Notwithstanding the termination of the agreement, the Company shall have recourse against its development partner for any losses incurred.
                             
The second development partner has the right, at any time following completion of a project subject to the agreement, to require the Company to purchase the partners' interest in that project at a mutually agreeable price. If the Company and the partner are unable to agree on a price, both parties will obtain appraisals. If the appraised values vary by more than 10%, both the Company and its partner will agree on a third appraiser to determine which original appraisal is closest to its determination of value. The Company may elect at that time not to purchase the property and instead, authorize its partner to sell the project at or above the agreed-upon value to an unrelated third party. Five years following the receipt of the final certificate of occupancy on the last developed property, the Company must purchase, at the agreed-upon price, any projects remaining unsold.
                             
The third development partner has the exclusive right for six months following stabilization, as defined, to market a subject project for sale. Thereafter, either the Company or its development partner may market a subject project for sale. If the Company's development partner proposes the sale, the Company may elect to purchase the project at the price proposed by its partner or defer the sale until two independent appraisers appraise the project. If the two appraised values vary by more than 5%, a third appraiser will be chosen to determine the fair market value of the property. Once a value has been determined, the Company may elect to purchase the property or authorize its development partner to sell the project at the agreed-upon value.
                             
In addition, the Company has various deal-specific development agreements with partners, the overall terms of which are similar in nature to those described above.
See Note 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company's investments in unconsolidated entities.
20
The Company's guaranty of a credit enhancement agreement with respect to certain tax-exempt bonds issued to finance certain public improvements at a multifamily development project was terminated effective May 2, 2005 as the tax-exempt bonds were redeemed in full and the associated letter of credit was cancelled.
The following table summarizes the Company's contractual obligations for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2005:
 
Amounts include aggregate principal payments only. The Company paid $397,886, $348,574, and $352,391 for interest on debt, inclusive of derivative instruments, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
(a)
         
Minimum basic rent due for various office space the Company leases and fixed base rent due on a ground lease for one property.
(b)
        
Estimated payments to the Company's Chairman, two former CEO's and its chief operating officer based on planned retirement dates.
(c)
         
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The Company's significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies were followed in preparing the consolidated financial statements at and for the year ended December 31, 2005 and are consistent with the year ended December 31, 2004.
The Company has identified six significant accounting policies as critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are those that have the most impact on the reporting of our financial condition and those requiring significant judgments and estimates. With respect to these critical accounting policies, management believes that the application of judgments and assessments is consistently applied and produces financial information that fairly presents the results of operations for all periods presented. The six critical accounting policies are:
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill
The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets, including its investments in real estate and goodwill, for indicators of permanent impairment. The judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions, expected holding period of each asset and legal and environmental concerns. Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.
21
Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate
The Company depreciates the building component of its investment in real estate over a 30-year estimated useful life, building improvements over a 5-year to 10-year estimated useful life and both the furniture, fixtures and equipment and replacements components over a 5-year estimated useful life, all of which are judgmental determinations.
Cost Capitalization
See the section for discussion of the policy with respect to capitalization vs. expensing of fixed asset/repair and maintenance costs. In addition, the Company capitalizes the payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on the supervision of major capital and/or renovation projects. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as an increase to depreciable property.
Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate
The Company follows the guidance in SFAS No. 67, , for all development projects and uses its professional judgment in determining whether such costs meet the criteria for capitalization or must be expensed as incurred. The Company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and insurance and payroll and associated costs for those individuals directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on development activities, with capitalization ceasing no later than 90 days following issuance on the certificate of occupancy. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as construction in progress for each specific property. The Company expenses as incurred all payroll costs of on-site employees working directly at our properties, except as noted above on our development properties prior to certificate of occupancy issuance and on specific major renovation at selected properties when additional incremental employees are hired.
Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects
Fair Value of Financial Instruments, Including Derivative Instruments
The valuation of financial instruments under SFAS No. 107 and SFAS No. 133 and its amendments (SFAS Nos. 137/138/149) requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. The Company, where possible, bases the fair values of its financial instruments, including its derivative instruments, on listed market prices and third party quotes. Where these are not available, the Company bases its estimates on current instruments with similar terms and maturities or on other factors relevant to the financial instruments.
Revenue Recognition
Rental income attributable to leases is recorded when due from residents and is recognized monthly as it is earned, which is not materially different than on a straight-line basis. Leases entered into between a resident and a property for the rental of an apartment unit are generally year-to-year, renewable upon consent of both parties on an annual or monthly basis. Fee and asset management revenue and interest income are recorded on an accrual basis.
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company elected to account for its stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123 and its amendment (SFAS No. 148), , effective in the first quarter of 2003, which resulted in compensation expense being recorded based on the fair value of the stock compensation granted.
Accounting for Stock Based Compensation
The Company elected the "Prospective Method" which requires expensing of employee awards granted or modified after January 1, 2003. Compensation expense under all of the Company's plans is generally recognized over periods ranging from three months to five years. See Note 2 in the Notes to
22
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion and comparative information regarding application of the fair value method to all outstanding employee awards.
Funds From Operations
For the year ended December 31, 2005, Funds From Operations ("FFO") available to Common Shares and OP Units increased $132.9 million, or 20.4%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2004, FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units increased $11.4 million, or 1.8%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2003.
The following is a reconciliation of net income to FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:
 
(1)
    
The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") defines funds from operations ("FFO") (April 2002 White Paper) as net income (computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP)), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis. The April 2002 White Paper states that gain or loss on sales of property is excluded from FFO for previously depreciated operating properties only. Once the Company commences the conversion of units to condominiums, it simultaneously discontinues depreciation of such property.
(2)
    
The Company believes that FFO is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of the operating performance of a real estate company, because it is a recognized measure of performance by the real estate industry and by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of depreciable property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. FFO in and of itself does not represent net income or net cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, FFO should not be exclusively considered as an alternative to net income or to net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP or as a measure of liquidity. The Company's calculation of FFO may differ from other real estate companies due to, among other items, variations in cost capitalization policies for capital expenditures and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate companies.
23
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-1.
24
 
All other schedules have been omitted because they are inapplicable, not required or the information is included elsewhere in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Trustees and Shareholders Equity Residential
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Equity Residential (the "Company") as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index to the financial statements and schedule. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Equity Residential at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for variable interest entities in 2004.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Equity Residential's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 28, 2006 (not provided herein) expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
Chicago, Illinois February 28, 2006, except for the fourth paragraph of Note 21, for which the date is March 2, 2006 and Notes 12, 13 and 20, for which the date is May 22, 2006
F-
2
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Amounts in thousands except for share amounts)
 
See accompanying notes
F-
3
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Amounts in thousands except per share data)
See accompanying notes
F-
4
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) (Amounts in thousands except per share data)
 
See accompanying notes
F-
5
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Amounts in thousands)
 
 
See accompanying notes
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Continued) (Amounts in thousands)
 
See accompanying notes
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Continued) (Amounts in thousands)
 
See accompanying notes
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (Amounts in thousands)
 
See accompanying notes
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (Continued) (Amounts in thousands)
 
See accompanying notes
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
           Business
1.
 
Equity Residential ("EQR"), a Maryland real estate investment trust ("REIT") formed in March 1993, is a fully integrated real estate company primarily engaged in the acquisition, development, ownership, management and operation of multifamily properties. In addition, EQR may acquire or develop multifamily properties specifically to convert directly into condominiums as well as upgrade and sell existing properties as individual condominiums. EQR may also acquire land parcels to hold and/or sell based on market opportunities. EQR has elected to be taxed as a REIT.
EQR is the general partner of, and as of December 31, 2005 owned an approximate 93.4% ownership interest in, ERP Operating Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the "Operating Partnership").  The Company is structured as an umbrella partnership REIT ("UPREIT"), under which all property ownership and business operations are conducted through the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries. References to the "Company" include EQR, the Operating Partnership and each of the partnerships, limited liability companies and corporations controlled by the Operating Partnership and/or EQR.
As of December 31, 2005, the Company, directly or indirectly through investments in title holding entities, owned all or a portion of 926properties in 31 states and the District of Columbia consisting of 197,404 units (table does not include various uncompleted development properties). The ownership breakdown includes:
 
The "Wholly Owned Properties" are accounted for under the consolidation method of accounting. The Company beneficially owns 100% fee simple title to 833 of the 834 Wholly Owned Properties. The Company owns the building and improvements and leases the land underlying the improvements under a long-term ground lease that expires in 2026 for one property. This one property is consolidated and reflected as a real estate asset while the ground lease is accounted for as an operating lease in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 13, .
Accounting for Leases
The "Partially Owned Properties" are controlled by the Company but have partners with minority interests and are accounted for under the consolidation method of accounting. The "Unconsolidated Properties" are partially owned but not controlled by the Company. With the exception of one property, the Unconsolidated Properties consist of investments in partnership interests and/or subordinated mortgages that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The remaining one property consists of an investment in a limited liability company that, as a result of the terms of the operating agreement, is accounted for as a management contract right with all fees recognized as fee and asset management revenue.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
2.
                                  
Basis of Presentation
Due to the Company's ability as general partner to control either through ownership or by contract the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, other than entities that own controlling interests in the Unconsolidated Properties and certain other entities in which the Company has investments, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes. Effective March 31, 2004, the consolidated financial statements also include all variable interest entities for which the Company is the primary beneficiary.
F-
11
The Company's mergers and acquisitions were accounted for as purchases in accordance with either Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 16, , or SFAS No. 141, . The fair value of the consideration given by the Company in the mergers were used as the valuation basis for each of the combinations. The accompanying consolidated statements of operations and cash flows include the results of the properties purchased through the mergers and through acquisitions from their respective closing dates.
Business Combinations
Business Combinations
SFAS No. 141 requires all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 be accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.
Real Estate Assets and Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate
The Company allocates the purchase price of properties to net tangible and identified intangible assets acquired based on their fair values in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 141. In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, the Company utilizes a number of sources, including independent appraisals that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of the respective property, our own analysis of recently acquired and existing comparable properties in our portfolio, and other market data. The Company also considers information obtained about each property as a result of its pre-acquisition due diligence, marketing and leasing activities in estimating the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired. The Company allocates the purchase price of acquired real estate to various components as follows:
      Land  Based on actual purchase price if acquired separately or market research/comparables if acquired with an operating property.
      Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment  Ranges between $1,500 and $3,000 per apartment unit acquired as an estimate of the fair value of the appliances & fixtures inside a unit. The per-unit amount applied depends on the type of apartment building acquired. Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method over an estimated useful life of five years.
      In-Place Leases  The Company considers the value of acquired in-place leases that meet the definition outlined in SFAS No. 141, paragraph 37. The amortization period is the average remaining term of each respective in-place acquired lease.
      Other Intangible Assets  The Company considers whether it has acquired other intangible assets that meet the definition outlined in SFAS No. 141, paragraph 39, including any customer relationship intangibles. The amortization period is the estimated useful life of the acquired intangible asset.
      Building  Based on the fair value determined on an "as-if vacant" basis. Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method over an estimated useful life of thirty years.
Replacements inside a unit such as appliances and carpeting are depreciated over a five-year estimated useful life. Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed to operations as incurred and significant renovations and improvements that improve and/or extend the useful life of the asset are capitalized over their estimated useful life, generally five to ten years. Initial direct leasing costs are expensed as incurred as such expense approximates the deferral and amortization of initial direct leasing costs over the lease terms. Property sales or dispositions are recorded when title transfers to unrelated third parties, contingencies have been removed and sufficient cash consideration has been received by the Company. Upon disposition, the related costs and accumulated depreciation are removed from the respective accounts. Any gain or loss on sale is recognized in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
The Company classifies real estate assets as real estate held for disposition when it is certain a property will be disposed of in accordance with SFAS No. 144 (see further discussion below).
The Company classifies properties under development and/or expansion and properties in the lease up phase (including land) as construction in progress until construction has been completed and all certificates of occupancy permits have been obtained.
F-
12
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill
In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 142, . SFAS No. 142 prohibits the amortization of goodwill and requires that goodwill be reviewed for impairment at least annually. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, SFAS Nos. 142 and 144 were effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. The Company adopted these standards effective January 1, 2002. See Notes 13 and 19 for further discussion.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.
The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets, including its investments in real estate and goodwill, for indicators of permanent impairment. The judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions, expected holding period of each asset and legal and environmental concerns. Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.
or long-lived assets to be held and used, the Company compares the expected future undiscounted cash flows for the long-lived asset against the carrying amount of that asset. If the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset, the Company further analyzes each individual asset for other temporary or permanent indicators of impairment. An impairment loss would be recorded for the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying amount of the asset if the Company deems this difference to be permanent.
F
For long-lived assets to be disposed of, an impairment loss is recognized when the estimated fair value of the asset, less the estimated cost to sell, is less than the carrying amount of the asset measured at the time that the Company has determined it will sell the asset. Long-lived assets held for disposition and the related liabilities are separately reported at the lower of their carrying amounts or their estimated fair values, less their costs to sell, and are not depreciated after reclassification to real estate held for disposition.
Cost Capitalization
See the section for discussion of the policy with respect to capitalization vs. expensing of fixed asset/repair and maintenance costs. In addition, the Company capitalizes the payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on the supervision of major capital and/or renovation projects. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as an increase to depreciable property.
Real Estate Assets and Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate
The Company follows the guidance in SFAS No. 67, , for all development projects and uses its professional judgment in determining whether such costs meet the criteria for capitalization or must be expensed as incurred. The Company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and insurance and payroll and associated costs for those individuals directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on development activities, with capitalization ceasing no later than 90 days following issuance of the certificate of occupancy. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as construction in progress for each specific property. The Company expenses as incurred all payroll costs of on-site employees working directly at our properties, except as noted above on our development properties prior to certificate of occupancy issuance and on specific major renovation at selected properties when additional incremental employees are hired.
Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects
F-
13
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company considers all demand deposits, money market accounts and investments in certificates of deposit and repurchase agreements purchased with a maturity of three months or less, at the date of purchase, to be cash equivalents. The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents at financial institutions. The combined account balances at one or more institutions typically exceed the Federal Depository Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insurance coverage, and, as a result, there is a concentration of credit risk related to amounts on deposit in excess of FDIC insurance coverage. The Company believes that the risk is not significant, as the Company does not anticipate the financial institutions' non-performance.
Deferred Financing Costs
Deferred financing costs include fees and costs incurred to obtain the Company's lines of credit and long-term financings. These costs are amortized over the terms of the related debt. Unamortized financing costs are written-off when debt is retired before the maturity date. The accumulated amortization of such deferred financing costs was $18.3 million and $18.1 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments, Including Derivative Instruments
The valuation of financial instruments under SFAS No. 107, , and SFAS No. 133 and its amendments (SFAS Nos. 137/138/149), , requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. The Company, where possible, bases the fair values of its financial instruments, including its derivative instruments, on listed market prices and third party quotes. Where these are not available, the Company bases its estimates on other factors relevant to the financial instruments.
Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the effect of interest rate changes. The Company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate risk on debt instruments.
The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the Company has not sustained a material loss from those instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives.
On January 1, 2001, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133 and its amendments (SFAS Nos. 137/138/149), which requires an entity to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and to measure those instruments at fair value. Additionally, the fair value adjustments will affect either shareholders' equity or net income depending on whether the derivative instruments qualify as a hedge for accounting purposes and, if so, the nature of the hedging activity. When the terms of an underlying transaction are modified, or when the underlying transaction is terminated or completed, all changes in the fair value of the instrument are marked-to-market with changes in value included in net income each period until the instrument matures. Any derivative instrument used for risk management that does not meet the hedging criteria of SFAS No. 133 is marked-to-market each period. The Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.
The fair value of the Company's mortgage notes payable and unsecured notes were both approximately $3.6 billion at December 31, 2005. The fair values of the Company's financial instruments, other than mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes and derivative instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, lines of credit and other financial instruments, approximate their carrying or contract values. See Note 11 for further discussion of derivative instruments.
F-
14
Revenue Recognition
Rental income attributable to leases is recorded when due from residents and is recognized monthly as it is earned, which is not materially different than on a straight-line basis. Leases entered into between a resident and a property, for the rental of an apartment unit, are generally year-to-year, renewable upon consent of both parties on an annual or monthly basis. Fee and asset management revenue and interest income are recorded on an accrual basis.
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company elected to account for its stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123 and its amendment (SFAS No. 148), , effective in the first quarter of 2003, which resulted in compensation expense being recorded based on the fair value of the stock compensation granted.
Accounting for Stock Based Compensation
The Company elected the "Prospective Method" which requires expensing of employee awards granted or modified after January 1, 2003. Compensation expense under all of the Company's plans is generally recognized over periods ranging from three months to five years.
The Company will adopt SFAS No. 123(R), as required effective July 1, 2006.  SFAS No. 123(R) will require all companies to expense stock-based compensation (such as stock options), as well as making other revisions to SFAS No. 123. As the Company began expensing all stock-based compensation effective January 1, 2003, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) will not have a material effect on its consolidated statements of operations or financial position.
Share-Based Payment,
The cost related to stock-based employee compensation included in the determination of net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 is equal to that which would have been recognized if the fair value based method had been applied to all awards since the original effective date of SFAS No. 123. The cost related to stock-based employee compensation included in the determination of net income for the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 is less than that which would have been recognized if the fair value based method had been applied to all awards since the original effective date of SFAS No. 123. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the fair value based method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested awards for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (amounts in thousands except per share amounts):
F-
15
 
 
 
Share options for the year ended December 31, 2003 included $1.4 million of expense recognition related to options granted in the first quarter of 2003 to the Company's former chief executive officer. These options vested immediately upon grant.
(1)   
The fair value of the option grants as computed under SFAS No. 123 would be recognized over the vesting period of the options. The fair value for the Company's share options was estimated at the time the share options were granted using the Black Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:
 
The valuation method and assumptions are the same as those the Company used in accounting for option expense in its consolidated financial statements. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. This model is only one method of valuing options and the Company's use of this model should not be interpreted as an endorsement of its accuracy. Because the Company's share options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's opinion, the existing models
F-
16
do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its share options and the actual value of the options may be significantly different.
Income Taxes
Due to the structure of the Company as a REIT and the nature of the operations of its operating properties, no provision for federal income taxes has been made at the EQR level. Historically, the Company has generally only incurred certain state and local income, excise and franchise taxes. The Company has elected Taxable REIT Subsidiary ("TRS") status for certain of its corporate subsidiaries, primarily those entities engaged in condominium conversion and sale activities.
The Company provided for current income, franchise and excise taxes allocated as follows in the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (amounts in thousands):
 
(1)    Primarily includes state and local income, excise and franchise taxes. In 2005, also includes $2.0 million of federal income taxes related to the sale of land parcels owned by a TRS and included in income from continuing operations.
(2)    Primarily represents federal income taxes incurred on the gains on sales of condominium units owned by a TRS.
(3)    Primarily represents state and local income, excise and franchise taxes on operating properties sold and included in discontinued operations.
The Company utilized approximately $43.9 million of net operating losses ("NOL") during the year ended December 31, 2005 and has no NOL carryforwards available as of January 1, 2006.
During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company's tax treatment of dividends and distributions were as follows:
 
The aggregate cost of land and depreciable property for federal income tax purposes as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 was approximately $9.4 billion and $9.3 billion, respectively.
Minority Interests
Operating Partnership:  Net income is allocated to minority interests based on their respective ownership percentage of the Operating Partnership. The ownership percentage is calculated by dividing the
F-
17
number of units of limited partnership interest ("OP Units") held by the minority interests by the total OP Units held by the minority interests and EQR. Issuance of additional common shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Common Shares"), and OP Units changes the ownership interests of both the minority interests and EQR. Such transactions and the proceeds therefrom are treated as capital transactions.
Partially Owned Properties:  The Company reflects minority interests in partially owned properties on the balance sheet for the portion of properties consolidated by the Company that are not wholly owned by the Company. The earnings or losses from those properties attributable to the minority interests are reflected as minority interests in partially owned properties in the consolidated statements of operations.
se of Estimates
U
In preparation of the Company's financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, management makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications considered necessary for a fair presentation have been made to the prior period financial statements in order to conform to the current year presentation. These reclassifications have not changed the results of operations or shareholders' equity.
Other
The Company adopted FASB Interpretation ("FIN") No. 46, as required, effective March 31, 2004. The adoption required the consolidation of all previously unconsolidated development projects. FIN No. 46 requires the Company to consolidate the assets, liabilities and results of operations of the activities of a variable interest entity, which for the Company includes only its development partnerships, if the Company is entitled to receive a majority of the entity's residual returns and/or is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from such entity's activities. Due to the March 31, 2004 effective date, the Company has only consolidated the results of operations beginning April 1, 2004. The adoption of FIN No. 46 did not have any effect on net income as the aggregate results of operations of these development properties were previously included in income (loss) from investments in unconsolidated entities.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,
The Company adopted the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 150 and FSP No. FAS 150-3, effective December 31, 2003. SFAS No. 150 and FSP No. FAS 150-3 require the Company to make certain disclosures regarding noncontrolling interests that are classified as equity in the financial statements of a subsidiary but would be classified as a liability in the parent's financial statements under SFAS No. 150 (e.g., minority interests in consolidated limited-life subsidiaries). The Company is presently the controlling partner in various consolidated partnerships consisting of 35 properties and 6,004 units and various uncompleted development properties having a minority interest book value of $17.0 million at December 31, 2005. Some of these partnerships contain provisions that require the partnerships to be liquidated through the sale of its assets upon reaching a date specified in each respective partnership agreement. The Company, as controlling partner, has an obligation to cause the property owning partnerships to distribute proceeds of liquidation to the Minority Interests in these Partially Owned
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity,
F-
18
Properties only to the extent that the net proceeds received by the partnerships from the sale of its assets warrant a distribution based on the partnership agreements. As of December 31, 2005, the Company estimates the value of Minority Interest distributions would have been approximately $73.4 million ("Settlement Value") had the partnerships been liquidated. This Settlement Value is based on estimated third party consideration realized by the partnerships upon disposition of the Partially Owned Properties and is net of all other assets and liabilities, including yield maintenance on the mortgages encumbering the properties, that would have been due on December 31, 2005 had those mortgages been prepaid. Due to, among other things, the inherent uncertainty in the sale of real estate assets, the amount of any potential distribution to the Minority Interests in the Company's Partially Owned Properties is subject to change. To the extent that the partnerships' underlying assets are worth less than the underlying liabilities, the Company has no obligation to remit any consideration to the Minority Interests in Partially Owned Properties.
In June 2005, the FASB ratified the consensus in EITF Issue No. 04-5, ("Issue 04-5"), which provides guidance in determining whether a general partner controls a limited partnership. Issue 04-5 states that the general partner in a limited partnership is presumed to control that limited partnership. The presumption may be overcome if the limited partners have either (1) the substantive ability to dissolve the limited partnership or otherwise remove the general partner without cause or (2) substantive participating rights, which provide the limited partners with the ability to effectively participate in significant decisions that would be expected to be made in the ordinary course of the limited partnership's business and thereby preclude the general partner from exercising unilateral control over the partnership. The adoption of Issue 04-5 by the Company is required for new or modified limited partnership arrangements effective June 30, 2005 and existing limited partnership arrangements effective January 1, 2006. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company will consolidate its Lexford syndicated portfolio consisting of 20 separate partnerships (10 properties) containing 1,272 units representing approximately $20.0 million of both net investment in real estate and mortgage notes payable at December 31, 2005. The adoption is not expected to have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position nor is it expected to have any effect on net equity or net income as the aggregate results of the aforementioned Lexford syndicated portfolio is already included in investments in unconsolidated entities and income (loss) from investments in unconsolidated entities, respectively.
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN No. 47, an interpretation of SFAS No. 143, . A conditional asset retirement obligation refers to a legal obligation to retire assets where the timing and/or method of settlement are conditioned on future events. FIN No. 47 requires an entity to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred if the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated. The Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 47 for the year ended December 31, 2005. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,
Asset Retirement Obligations
Shareholders' Equity and Minority Interests
3.
                                  
The following tables present the changes in the Company's issued and outstanding Common Shares and OP Units for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:
 
F-
19
 
 
In February 1998, the Company filed and the SEC declared effective a Form S-3 Registration Statement to register $1.0 billion of equity securities. In addition, the Company carried over $272.4 million related to a prior registration statement. As of February 1, 2006, $956.5 million in equity securities remained available for issuance under this registration statement.
The equity positions of various individuals and entities that contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units are collectively referred to as the "Minority Interests  Operating Partnership". Subject to certain restrictions, the Minority Interests  Operating Partnership may exchange their OP Units for EQR Common Shares on a one-for-one basis.
Net proceeds from the Company's Common Share and Preferred Share (see definition below) offerings are contributed by the Company to the Operating Partnership. In return for those contributions, EQR receives a number of OP Units in the Operating Partnership equal to the number of Common Shares it has issued in the equity offering (or in the case of a preferred equity offering, a number of preference units in the Operating Partnership equal in number and having the same terms as the Preferred Shares issued in the equity offering). As a result, the net offering proceeds from Common Shares and Preferred Shares are allocated between shareholders' equity and Minority Interests  Operating Partnership to account for the change in their respective percentage ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating Partnership.
The Company's declaration of trust authorizes the Company to issue up to 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Preferred Shares"), with specific rights,
F-
20
preferences and other attributes as the Board of Trustees may determine, which may include preferences, powers and rights that are senior to the rights of holders of the Company's Common Shares.
The following table presents the Company's issued and outstanding Preferred Shares as of December 31, 2005 and 2004:
 
On or after the redemption date, redeemable preferred shares (Series C, D, K and N) may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation price per share, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any.
(1)
            
On or after the redemption date, convertible preferred shares (Series E & H) may be redeemed under certain circumstances at the option of the Company for cash (in the case of Series E) or Common Shares (in the case of Series H), in whole or in part, at various redemption prices per share based upon the contractual conversion rate, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any.
(2)
            
Dividends on all series of Preferred Shares are payable quarterly at various pay dates. Dividend rates listed for Series C, D and N are Preferred Share rates and the equivalent Depositary Share annual dividend rates are $2.28125, $2.15 and $1.62, respectively.
(3)
            
Series C, D and N Preferred Shares each have a corresponding depositary share that consists of ten times the number of shares and one-tenth the liquidation value and dividend rate per share.
(4)
            
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company redeemed for cash all 500,000 shares of its Series B Preferred Shares with a liquidation value of $125.0 million. Additionally, the Company recorded the write-off of approximately $4.3 million in original issuance costs as a premium on redemption of Preferred Shares in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
(5)
            
On June 19, 2003. the Company redeemed all of its outstanding Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares at liquidation value for total cash consideration of $100.0 million. The Company did not
F-
21
incur any original issuance costs as these shares were issued by Merry Land & Investment Company, Inc. prior to its merger with the Company.
On June 19, 2003, the Company issued 600,000 Series N Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares in a public offering. The Company received $145.3 million in net proceeds from this offering after payment of the underwriters' fee.
On December 26, 2003, the Company redeemed the remaining outstanding Series G Convertible Cumulative Preferred Shares for cash consideration of $295.3 million, which included the liquidation value of $287.0 million and a cash redemption premium of $8.3 million. The Company recorded the $8.3 million cash redemption premium along with the write-off of $11.9 million in original issuance costs as a premium on redemption of Preferred Shares in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
The following table presents the issued and outstanding Preference Interests as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004:
On or after the fifth anniversary of the respective issuance (the "Redemption Date"), all of the Preference Interests may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference of $50.00 per unit plus the cumulative amount of accrued and unpaid distributions, if any.
(1)
            
F-
22
On or after the tenth anniversary of the respective issuance (the "Conversion Date"), all of the Preference Interests are exchangeable at the option of the holder (in whole but not in part) on a one-for-one basis for a respective reserved series of EQR Preferred Shares. In addition, on or after the Conversion Date, the convertible Preference Interests (Series H, I & J) may be converted under certain circumstances at the option of the holder (in whole but not in part) to Common Shares based upon the contractual conversion rate, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any. Prior to the Conversion Date, the convertible Preference Interests (Series H, I, & J) may be converted at the option of the holder (in whole but not in part) to Common Shares based upon the contractual conversion rate, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any, if the issuer has called the series for redemption (the "Accelerated Conversion Right").
(2)
            
Dividends on all series of Preference Interests are payable quarterly on March 25, June 25, September 25,and December 25of each year.
(3)
            
th
th
th
th
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company redeemed or repurchased for cash all of its Series B through F Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $146.0 million. The Company recorded approximately $4.1 million as premiums on redemption of Preference Interests (Minority Interests) in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, which included $3.8 million in original issuance costs and $0.3 million in cash redemption charges.
(4)
            
On February 10, 2006, the Company issued irrevocable notices to redeem for cash all 510,000 units of the Series G Preference Interests on March 21, 2006 and all 190,000 units of the Series H Preference Interests on March 23, 2006. The redemption notice on the Series H Preference Interests triggered the Accelerated Conversion Right (see above).
(5)
            
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company redeemed for cash all 800,000 units of its 8.00% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $40.0 million. The Company recorded approximately $1.1 million as premiums on redemption of Preference Interests (Minority Interests) in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
The following table presents the Operating Partnership's issued and outstanding Junior Convertible Preference Units (the "Junior Preference Units") as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004:
 
Dividends on the Junior Preference Units are payable quarterly at various pay dates.
(1)
            
On or after the tenth anniversary of the issuance (the "Redemption Date"), the Series B Junior Preference Units may be converted into OP Units at the option of the Operating Partnership based on the contractual conversion rate. Prior to the Redemption Date, the holders may elect to convert the Series B Junior Preference Units to OP Units under certain circumstances based on the contractual conversion rate. The contractual rate is based upon a ratio dependent upon the closing price of EQR's Common Shares.
(2)
            
4.
                                     
Real Estate
The following table summarizes the carrying amounts for investment in real estate (at cost) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 :
(Amounts are in thousands)
 
F-
23
 
 
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company acquired the entire equity interest in forty-one properties containing 12,059 units, inclusive of one additional unit at one existing property, and seven land parcels from unaffiliated parties for a total purchase price of $2.7 billion.
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company also acquired a majority interest in the remaining equity interests it did not previously own in sixteen Partially Owned Properties, all of which remain partially owned. The acquisitions were funded using $24.2 million in cash and through the issuance of 614,717 OP Units valued at $20.8 million, with $43.0 million recorded as additional building basis and $2.0 million recorded as a reduction of Minority Interests  Partially Owned Properties. The Company also acquired the majority of the remaining third party equity interests it did not previously own in three properties, consisting of 211 units. The properties were previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting and subsequent to each purchase were consolidated. The Company recorded $5.6 million in investment in real estate and the following:
      Assumed $2.8 million in mortgage debt;
      Reduced investments in unconsolidated entities by $1.2 million;
      Assumed $1.5 million of other liabilities net of other assets acquired; and
      Paid cash of $0.1 million (net of cash acquired).
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company acquired the entire equity interest in twenty-four properties containing 6,182 units from unaffiliated parties, inclusive of four additional units at two existing properties and one land parcel, for a total purchase price of $913.2 million.
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company also acquired a majority interest in the remaining equity interests it did not previously own in nineteen properties and two land parcels. These properties were previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting and subsequent to each purchase were consolidated. The Company recorded $960.3 million in investment in real estate and the following:
      Assumed $274.8 million in mortgage debt;
      Recorded $0.4 million of minority interests in partially owned properties;
      Reduced investments in unconsolidated entities by $608.7 million (inclusive of $339.7 million in mortgage debt paid off prior to closing);
      Assumed $27.2 million of other liabilities net of other assets acquired; and
      Paid cash of $49.2 million (net of cash acquired).
As previously noted, the Company adopted FIN No. 46, as required, effective March 31, 2004. The adoption required the consolidation of all previously unconsolidated development projects. Accordingly, the Company consolidated five completed properties, six projects which were under development at the time and various other land parcels held for future development. The Company recorded $548.3 million in investment in real estate and the following:
F-
24
 
      Consolidated $294.7 million in mortgage debt;
      Recorded $3.0 million of minority interests in partially owned properties;
      Reduced investments in unconsolidated entities by $235.0 million;
      Consolidated $19.2 million of other liabilities net of other assets acquired; and
      Consolidated $3.6 million of cash.
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company disposed of the following to unaffiliated parties (including five land parcels) (sales price in thousands):
 
 
The Company recognized a net gain on sales of discontinued operations of approximately $697.7 million (amount is net of $8.8 million of income taxes incurred on condominium sales  see additional discussion in Note 2) and a net gain on sales of land parcels of approximately $30.2 million on the above sales.
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company disposed of the following to unaffiliated parties (including two land parcels) (sales price in thousands):
 
 
a net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities of approximately $4.6million, and a net gain on sales of land parcels of approximately $5.5 million on the above sales.
The Company recognized a net gain on sales of discontinued operations of approximately $318.4 million,
Commitments to Acquire/Dispose of Real Estate
5.
                                  
As of February 1, 2006, in addition to the properties that were subsequently acquired as discussed in Note 21, the Company had entered into separate agreements to acquire the following (purchase price in thousands):
 
As of February 1, 2006, in addition to the properties that were subsequently disposed of as discussed in Note 21, the Company had entered into separate agreements to dispose of the following (sales price in thousands):
F-
25
 
 
The closings of these pending transactions are subject to certain contingencies and conditions, therefore, there can be no assurance that these transactions will be consummated or that the final terms thereof will not differ in material respects from those summarized in the preceding paragraphs.
6.             Investments in Unconsolidated Entities
The Company has co-invested in various properties with unrelated third parties which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The following table summarizes the Company's investments in unconsolidated entities as of December 31, 2005 (amounts in thousands except for project and unit amounts):
 
 
Totals exclude Fort Lewis Military Housing consisting of one property and 3,693 units, which is not accounted for under the equity method of accounting, but is included in the Company's property/unit counts at December 31, 2005.
(1)
            
All debt is non-recourse to the Company.
(2)
            
Deposits - - Restricted
7.
                                  
The following table presents the deposits  restricted as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 (amounts in thousands):
 
 
F-
26
 
Mortgage Notes Payable
8.
                                  
As of December 31, 2005, the Company had outstanding mortgage indebtedness of approximately $3.4 billion.
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company:
      Repaid $470.4 million of mortgage loans;
      Assumed/consolidated $446.3 million of mortgage debt on certain properties in connection with their acquisitions and/or consolidations;
      Obtained $280.1 million of mortgage loans on certain properties; and
      Was released from $35.0 million of mortgage debt assumed by the purchaser on disposed properties.
As of December 31, 2005, scheduled maturities for the Company's outstanding mortgage indebtedness were at various dates through February 1, 2041. At December 31, 2005, the interest rate range on the Company's mortgage debt was 3.35%to 12.465%. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the weighted average interest rate on the Company's mortgage debt was 5.63%.
The historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation, of encumbered properties was $4.8 billion and $4.4 billion at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Aggregate payments of principal on mortgage notes payable for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had outstanding mortgage indebtedness of approximately $3.2 billion.
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company:
      Repaid $494.9 million of mortgage loans;
      Assumed $665.4 million of mortgage debt on certain properties in connection with their acquisitions and/or consolidations;
      Obtained $467.5 million of mortgage loans on certain properties;
      Was released from $29.5 million of mortgage debt assumed by the purchaser on disposed properties; and
      Refinanced $130.0 million of mortgage notes and obtained the release of the property as collateral for the loan; therefore the loan was reclassified to notes, net.
As of December 31, 2004, scheduled maturities for the Company's outstanding mortgage indebtedness were at various dates through January 1, 2035. At December 31, 2004, the interest rate range on the Company's mortgage debt was 1.89%to 12.465%. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the weighted average interest rate on the Company's mortgage debt was 5.46%.
F-
27
9.         Notes
The following tables summarize the Company's unsecured note balances and certain interest rate and maturity date information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively:
 
 
 
The Company's unsecured public debt contains certain financial and operating covenants including,
among other things, maintenance of certain financial ratios. The Company was in compliance with its unsecured public debt covenants for both the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.
In June 2003, the Operating Partnership filed and the SEC declared effective a Form S-3 registration statement to register $2.0 billion of debt securities. In addition, the Operating Partnership carried over $280.0 million related to a prior registration statement. As of February 1, 2006, $580.0 million in debt securities remained available for issuance under this registration statement.
In January 2006, the Company issued $400.0 million of ten and one-half year 5.375% fixed rate public notes, receiving net proceeds of $395.5 million.
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company:
Issued $500.0 million of ten and one-half year 5.125% fixed-rate public notes, receiving net proceeds of $496.2 million;
                 
Had $300.0 million in fixed rate public notes remarketed as originally contemplated in a remarketing agreement entered into in connection with the original issuance of the notes, with the interest rate changing from 6.63% to 6.584% effective April 14, 2005 (notes still mature on April 13, 2015);
                 
Repaid $190.0 million of fixed-rate public notes at maturity; and
                 
Repaid $4.3 million of other unsecured notes.
                 
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company:
Issued $300.0 million of five-year 4.75% fixed-rate public notes, receiving net proceeds of $296.8 million;
                 
Issued $500.0 million of ten-year 5.25% fixed rate public notes, receiving net proceeds of
                 
F-
28
$496.1 million;
Repaid $415.0 million of fixed rate public notes at maturity;
                 
Repaid $20.7 million of other unsecured notes; and
                 
Obtained an unsecured floating rate loan with a total commitment of $300.0 million and an initial borrowing of $100.0 million on July 15, 2004. This loan was paid off in full and terminated on September 14, 2004.
                 
Aggregate payments of principal on unsecured notes payable for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
Includes $150.0 million of 7.57% unsecured debt with a final maturity of 2026 that is putable in 2006.
(1)
         
10.          Lines of Credit
On April 1, 2005, the Operating Partnership obtained a new three-year $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on May 29, 2008, and terminated the $700.0 million credit facility that was scheduled to expire in May 2005. The Operating Partnership has the ability to increase available borrowings up to $500.0 million under certain circumstances. Advances under the new facility bear interest at variable rates based upon LIBOR at various interest periods plus a spread dependent upon the Operating Partnership's credit rating or based on bids received from the lending group. EQR has guaranteed the Operating Partnership's credit facility up to the maximum amount and for the full term of the facility.
On August 30, 2005, the Operating Partnership obtained a new one-year $600.0 million revolving credit facility maturing on August 29, 2006. Advances under the new facility bore interest at variable rates based on LIBOR at various interest periods plus a spread dependent upon the Operating Partnership's credit rating. EQR guaranteed this credit facility up to the maximum amount and for its full term. This credit facility was repaid in full and terminated on January 20, 2006.
As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, $769.0 million and $150.0 million, respectively, was outstanding and $50.2 million and $65.4 million, respectively, was restricted (dedicated to support letters of credit and not available for borrowing) on the credit facilities. During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the weighted average interest rate was 3.80% and 1.73%, respectively.
11.          Derivative Instruments
The following table summarizes the consolidated derivative instruments at December 31, 2005 (dollar amounts are in thousands):
F-
29
 
 
(1) Fair Value Hedges  Converts outstanding fixed rate debt to a floating interest rate.
(2) Forward Starting Swaps  Designed to partially fix the interest rate in advance of a planned future debt issuance.
(3) Development Cash Flow Hedges  Converts outstanding floating rate debt to a fixed interest rate.
 
On December 31, 2005, the net derivative instruments were reported at their fair value as other assets of approximately $9.7 million and as other liabilities of approximately $15.7 million. As of December 31, 2005, there were approximately $14.8 million in deferred losses, net, included in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Based on the estimated fair values of the net derivative instruments at December 31, 2005, the Company may recognize an estimated $3.1 million of accumulated other comprehensive loss as additional interest expense during the twelve months ending December 31, 2006.
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company paid approximately $7.8 million to terminate eight forward starting swaps in conjunction with the issuance of $500.0 million of ten and one-half year unsecured notes. The $7.8 million has been deferred and will be recognized as additional interest expense over the life of the unsecured notes.
In January 2006, the Company received approximately $10.7 million to terminate six forward starting swaps in conjunction with the issuance of $400.0 million of ten and one-half year unsecured notes. The $10.7 million has been deferred and will be recognized as a reduction of interest expense over the life of the unsecured notes.
12.          Earnings Per Share
The following tables set forth the computation of net income per share  basic and net income per share  diluted:
 
 
F-
30
 
 
Convertible preferred shares/units that could be converted into 1,772,048, 3,215,472 and 14,745,904 weighted average Common Shares for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, were outstanding but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.
For additional disclosures regarding the employee share options and restricted shares, see Notes 2 and 14.
 
F-
31
13.
                              
D
iscontinued Operations
The Company has presented separately as discontinued operations in all periods the results of operations for all consolidated assets disposed of on or after January 1, 2002 (the date of adoption of SFAS No. 144) and all operations related to condominium conversion properties effective upon their respective transfer into a TRS.
The components of discontinued operations are outlined below and include the results of operations for the respective periods that the Company owned such assets during each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003.
(1)
              
Includes expenses paid in the current period for properties sold in prior periods related to the Company's period of ownership.
(2)
              
Interest only includes interest expense specific to secured mortgage notes payable for properties sold.
F-
32
For the properties sold during 2005 and the first three months of 2006 (excluding condominium conversion properties), the investment in real estate, net of accumulated depreciation, and the mortgage notes payable balances at December 31, 2004 were $1.2 billion and $137.8 million, respectively. For the properties sold during the first three months of 2006 (excluding condominium conversion properties), the investment in real estate, net of accumulated depreciation, and the mortgage notes payable balances at December 31, 2005 were $422.5 million and $49.3 million, respectively.
The net real estate basis of the Company's condominium conversion properties and land parcels owned by the TRS, which were included in investment in real estate, net in the consolidated balance sheets, was $276.8 million and $335.5 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
14.
                              
Share Incentive Plans
On May 15, 2002, the shareholders of EQR approved the Company's 2002 Share Incentive Plan. The maximum aggregate number of awards that may be granted under this plan may not exceed 7.5% of the Company's outstanding Common Shares calculated on a "fully diluted" basis and determined annually on the first day of each calendar year. As of January 1, 2006, this amount equaled 23,370,851, of which 15,421,477 is available for future issuance. No awards may be granted under the 2002 Share Incentive Plan after February 20, 2012.
Pursuant to the 2002 Share Incentive Plan and the Fifth Amended and Restated 1993 Share Option and Share Award Plan (collectively the "Share Incentive Plans"), officers, trustees, key employees and consultants of the Company may be offered the opportunity to acquire Common Shares through the grant of share options ("Options") including non-qualified share options ("NQSOs"), incentive share options ("ISOs") and share appreciation rights ("SARs"), or may be granted restricted or non-restricted shares. Additionally, officers and key employees of the Company may be awarded Common Shares, subject to conditions and restrictions as described in the Share Incentive Plans. Finally, certain executive officers of the Company are subject to the Company's performance based restricted share plan. Options, SARs, restricted shares and performance shares are sometimes collectively referred to herein as "Awards".
The Options generally are granted at the fair market value of the Company's Common Shares at the date of grant, vest over a three year period, are exercisable upon vesting and expire ten years from the date of grant. The exercise price for all Options under the Share Incentive Plans shall not be less than the fair market value of the underlying Common Shares at the time the Option is granted. The Fifth Amended and Restated 1993 Share Option and Share Award Plan will terminate at such time as all outstanding Awards have expired or have been exercised/vested. The Board of Trustees may at any time amend or terminate the Share Incentive Plans, but termination will not affect Awards previously granted. Any Options which had vested prior to such a termination would remain exercisable by the holder thereof.
As to the Options that have been granted through December 31, 2005, generally, one-third are exercisable one year after the initial grant, one-third are exercisable two years following the date such Options were granted and the remaining one-third are exercisable three years following the date such Options were granted.
As to the restricted shares that have been awarded through December 31, 2005, these shares generally vest three years from the award date. During the three-year period of restriction, the employee receives quarterly dividend payments on their shares. The Company's unvested restricted shareholders receive dividends at the same rate and on the same date as any other Common Share holder. In addition, the Company's unvested restricted shareholders have the same voting rights as any other Common Share holder. As a result, dividends paid on unvested restricted shares are included as a distribution in excess of accumulated earnings and have not been considered in reducing net income available to Common Shares
F-
33
in a manner similar to the Company's preferred share dividends for the earnings per share calculation. If employment is terminated prior to the lapsing of the restriction, the shares are canceled.
In addition, each year selected executive officers of the Company receive performance-based awards. The executive officers have the opportunity to earn in Common Shares an amount as little as 0% to as much as 225% of the target number of performance-based awards. The owners of performance-based awards have no right to vote, receive dividends or transfer the awards until Common Shares are issued in exchange for the awards. The number of Common Shares the executive officer actually receives on the third anniversary of the grant date will depend on the excess, if any, by which the Company's Average Annual Return (i.e., the average of the Common Share dividends declared during each year as a percentage of the Common Share price as of the first business day of the first performance year and the average percentage increase in funds from operations ("FFO") for each calendar year on a per share basis over the prior year) for the three performance years exceeds the average of the 10-year Treasury Note interest rate as of the first business day in January of each performance year (the "T-Note Rate").
 
If the Company's Average Annual Return exceeds the T-Note Rate by an amount which falls between any of the percentages in excess of the 2% threshold, the performance-based award will be determined by extrapolation between the two percentages. Fifty percent of the Common Shares to which an executive officer may be entitled under the performance share grants will vest, subject to the executive's continued employment with the Company, on the third anniversary of the award (which will be the date the Common Shares are issued); twenty-five percent will vest on the fourth anniversary and the remaining twenty-five percent will vest on the fifth anniversary. The Common Shares will also fully vest upon the executive's death, retirement at or after age 62, disability or upon a change in control of the Company.
The following table summarizes information regarding both the restricted and performance-based share plans for the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:
(1)
         
2005 amount includes $8.9 million of additional one-time expenses related to restricted/performance shares for Bruce W. Duncan and Edward Geraghty. See Note 21 for further discussion.
F-
34
For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded compensation expense of $6.8 million, $3.0 million and $2.6 million, respectively, related to Options.
The Company elected to account for its stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123 and its amendment (SFAS No. 148), , effective in the first quarter of 2003, which resulted in compensation expense being recorded based on the fair value of the stock compensation granted.
Accounting for Stock Based Compensation
Compensation expense related to restricted and performance-based share grants was previously recognized in accordance with APB No. 25. The adoption of SFAS No. 123 does not significantly change the amount of compensation expense recognized for these grants.
See Note 2 for additional information regarding the Company's stock-based compensation.
The table below summarizes the Option activity of the Share Incentive Plans and options assumed in connection with mergers (the "Merger Options") for the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:
 
The following table summarizes information regarding options outstanding at December 31, 2005:
F-
35
 
As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, 6,851,442 Options (with a weighted average exercise price of $24.47) and 8,274,915 Options (with a weighted average exercise price of $23.86) were exercisable, respectively.
Employee Plans
15.
  
The Company established an Employee Share Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") to provide employees and trustees the ability to annually acquire up to $100,000 of Common Shares of the Company. In 2003, the Company's shareholders approved an increase in the aggregate number of Common Shares available under the ESPP to 7,000,000 (from 2,000,000). The Company has 4,484,186 Common Shares available for purchase under the ESPP at December 31, 2005. The Common Shares may be purchased quarterly at a price equal to 85% of the lesser of: (a) the closing price for a share on the last day of such quarter; and (b) the greater of: (i) the closing price for a share on the first day of such quarter, and (ii) the average closing price for a share for all the business days in the quarter. The following table summarizes information regarding the Common Shares issued under the ESPP:
 
 
The Company established a defined contribution plan (the "401(k) Plan") to provide retirement benefits for employees that meet minimum employment criteria. The Company matches dollar for dollar up to the first 3% of eligible compensation that a participant contributes to the 401(k) Plan (2% for 2004 and 2003). Participants are vested in the Company's contributions over five years. The Company made contributions in the amount of $1.7 million and $1.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
F-
36
2003, respectively, and expects to make contributions in the amount of approximately $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.
The Company may also elect to make an annual discretionary profit-sharing contribution as a percentage of each individual employee's eligible compensation under the 401(k) Plan. The Company expects to make contributions in the amount of approximately $2.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company did not make a contribution for the years ended December 31, 2004 or 2003.
The Company established a supplemental executive retirement savings plan (the "SERP") to provide certain officers and trustees an opportunity to defer a portion of their eligible compensation in order to save for retirement. The SERP is restricted to investments in Company Common Shares, certain marketable securities that have been specifically approved, and cash equivalents. The deferred compensation liability represented in the SERP and the securities issued to fund such deferred compensation liability are consolidated by the Company and carried on the Company's balance sheet, and the Company's Common Shares held in the SERP are accounted for as a reduction to paid in capital.
Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan
16.
  
On November 3, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration Statement to register 14,000,000 Common Shares pursuant to a Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan (the "DRIP Plan"). The registration statement was declared effective on November 25, 1997. The Company has 11,571,446 Common Shares available for issuance under the DRIP Plan at December 31, 2005.
The DRIP Plan provides holders of record and beneficial owners of Common Shares and Preferred Shares with a simple and convenient method of investing cash distributions in additional Common Shares (which is referred to herein as the "Dividend Reinvestment  DRIP Plan"). Common Shares may also be purchased on a monthly basis with optional cash payments made by participants in the DRIP Plan and interested new investors, not currently shareholders of the Company, at the market price of the Common Shares less a discount ranging between 0% and 5%, as determined in accordance with the DRIP Plan (which is referred to herein as the "Share Purchase  DRIP Plan"). Common Shares purchased under the DRIP Plan may, at the option of the Company, be directly issued by the Company or purchased by the Company's transfer agent in the open market using participants' funds.
Transactions with Related Parties
17.
  
The Company provided asset and property management services to certain related entities for properties not owned by the Company. Fees received for providing such services were approximately $0.2 million, $0.2 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
The Company reimbursed its Chief Operating Officer for the actual operating costs (excluding acquisition costs) of operating his personal aircraft for himself and other employees on Company business. Amounts incurred were approximately $0.4 million, $0.3 million and $0.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
The Company leases its corporate headquarters from an entity controlled by EQR's Chairman of the Board of Trustees. Amounts incurred for such office space for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, were approximately $2.1 million, $1.9 million and $1.7 million. The Company believes these amounts equal market rates for such space.
F-
37
The Company had the following additional non-continuing related party transaction. The Company leased space in an office building in Augusta, Georgia indirectly owned by one of EQR's former trustees since May 2003 and directly owned by an entity affiliated with the same EQR trustee from 1998 to 2003 (individual was a trustee through May 2004). Amounts incurred for such office space were approximately $0.2 million for both the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003.
Commitments and Contingencies
18.
  
The Company, as an owner of real estate, is subject to various Federal, state and local environmental laws. Compliance by the Company with existing laws has not had a material adverse effect on the Company. However, the Company cannot predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations on its current properties or on properties that it may acquire in the future.
he Company tried a class action lawsuit in Palm Beach County, Florida during the last week of August of 2004 which challenged the assessment and collection of certain lease termination fees. The case has been settled, subject to court approval. The Company will pay $1.7 million into a class fund, $1.629 million of which was previously accrued during 2004. In addition, the Company will pay $325,000 to reimburse class counsel for its out of pocket expenses, plus $2.55 million in attorney's fees. Costs of claims administration will be approximately $100,000. An accrual for these additional potential payments was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005. Preliminary court approval of the settlement was obtained in February 2006 and final judgment is expected in the second quarter of 2006.
T
The Company does not believe there is any other litigation pending or threatened against the Company which, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably may be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company.
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company established a reserve and recorded a corresponding expense of $15.2 million in estimated uninsured property damage at certain of its properties primarily located in Florida caused by Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne (included in rents received in advance and other liabilities and real estate taxes and insurance expense on the consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations, respectively). The entire reserve had been spent for hurricane related repairs through December 31, 2005.
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company established a reserve and recorded a corresponding expense of $11.1 million, net of $8.1 million of insurance receivables, for estimated uninsured property damage at certain of its properties caused by Hurricane Wilma. The receivable of $8.1 million and the reserve of $19.2 million are included in other assets and rents received in advance and other liabilities, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets. The expense of $11.1 million is included in real estate taxes and insurance expense in the consolidated statements of operations.
As of December 31, 2005, the Company has six projects totaling 1,760 units in various stages of development with estimated completion dates ranging through March 31, 2008. The primary development agreements currently in place have the following key terms:
The first development partner has the right, at any time following completion of a project subject to the agreement, to stipulate a value for such project and offer to sell its interest in the project to the Company based on such value. If the Company chooses not to purchase the interest, the Company must agree to a sale of the project to an unrelated third party at such value. The Company's partner must exercise this right as to all projects subject to the agreement within five years after the receipt of the final certificate of occupancy on the last developed property. In connection with this development agreement, the Company has an obligation to provide up to $40.0 million in credit enhancements to guarantee a portion of the third party construction
                 
F-
38
financing. As of February 1, 2006, the Company did not have any amounts outstanding related to this credit enhancement. The Company would be required to perform under this agreement only if there was a material default under a third party construction mortgage agreement. This agreement expires no later than December 31, 2018. Notwithstanding the termination of the agreement, the Company shall have recourse against its development partner for any losses incurred.
The second development partner has the right, at any time following completion of a project subject to the agreement, to require the Company to purchase the partners' interest in that project at a mutually agreeable price. If the Company and the partner are unable to agree on a price, both parties will obtain appraisals. If the appraised values vary by more than 10%, both the Company and its partner will agree on a third appraiser to determine which original appraisal is closest to its determination of value. The Company may elect at that time not to purchase the property and instead, authorize its partner to sell the project at or above the agreed-upon value to an unrelated third party. Five years following the receipt of the final certificate of occupancy on the last developed property, the Company must purchase, at the agreed-upon price, any projects remaining unsold.
                       
The third development partner has the exclusive right for six months following stabilization, as defined, to market a subject project for sale. Thereafter, either the Company or its development partner may market a subject project for sale. If the Company's development partner proposes the sale, the Company may elect to purchase the project at the price proposed by its partner or defer the sale until two independent appraisers appraise the project. If the two appraised values vary by more than 5%, a third appraiser will be chosen to determine the fair market value of the property. Once a value has been determined, the Company may elect to purchase the property or authorize its development partner to sell the project at the agreed-upon value.
                       
In addition, the Company has various deal-specific development agreements with partners, the overall terms of which are similar in nature to those described above.
The Company's guaranty of a credit enhancement agreement with respect to certain tax-exempt bonds issued to finance certain public improvements at a multifamily development project was terminated effective May 2, 2005 as the tax-exempt bonds were redeemed in full and the associated letter of credit was cancelled.
During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, total operating lease payments incurred for office space, including a portion of real estate taxes, insurance, repairs and utilities, aggregated $6.1 million, $5.8 million and $5.7 million, respectively.
The Company has entered into a retirement benefits agreement with its Chairman of the Board of Trustees and deferred compensation agreements with its chief operating officer and two former chief executive officers. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recognized compensation expense of $2.2 million, $39,000 and $3.0 million, respectively, related to these agreements.
The following table summarizes the Company's contractual obligations for minimum rent payments under operating leases and deferred compensation for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2005:
F-
39
 
Minimum basic rent due for various office space the Company leases and fixed base rent due on a ground lease for one property.
(a)
            
Estimated payments to the Company's Chairman, two former CEO's and its chief operating officer based on planned retirement dates.
(b)
           
Asset Impairment
19.
  
The Company recorded approximately $1.2 million of asset impairment charges related to its technology investments in the year ending December 31, 2003. These charges were the result of a review of the existing investments reflected on the consolidated balance sheet. These impairment losses are reflected on the consolidated statements of operations in total expenses and include the write-down of assets classified as other assets.
20.   Reportable Segments
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by senior management. Senior management decides how resources are allocated and assesses performance on a monthly basis.
The Company's primary business is owning, managing, and operating multifamily residential properties, which includes the generation of rental and other related income through the leasing of apartment units to residents and includes Equity Corporate Housing ("ECH"). Senior management evaluates the performance of each of our apartment communities on an individual basis; however, each of our apartment communities has similar economic characteristics, residents, and products and services so they have been aggregated into one reportable segment. The Company's rental real estate segment comprises approximately 99.4%, 99.3% and 99.0% of total revenues from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company's rental real estate segment comprises approximately 99.8% of total assets at both December 31, 2005 and 2004.
The primary financial measure for the Company's rental real estate segment is net operating income ("NOI"), which represents rental income less: 1) property and maintenance expense; 2) real estate taxes and insurance expense; and 3) property management expense (all as reflected in the accompanying statements of operations). The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of the operating performance of a real estate company because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Company's apartment communities. Current year NOI is compared to prior year NOI and current year budgeted NOI as a measure of financial performance. The following table presents the NOI from our rental real estate specific to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively:
F-
40
 
 
The Company's fee and asset management activity is immaterial and does not meet the threshold requirements of a reportable segment as provided for in SFAS No. 131.
All revenues are from external customers and there is no customer who contributed 10% or more of the Company's total revenues during the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003.
Subsequent Events/Other
21.
  
Subsequent to December 31, 2005 and through February 1, 2006, the Company:
Acquired $148.7 million of apartment properties consisting of three properties and 705 units;
                 
Sold $230.2 million of apartment properties consisting of six properties and 1,681 units (excluding condominium units);
                 
Issued $400.0 million of ten and one-half year 5.375% fixed rate public notes, receiving net proceeds of $395.5 million and terminated six forward starting swaps designated to hedge the note issuance, receiving net proceeds of $10.7 million;
                 
Terminated its $600.0 million short-term revolving credit facility; and
                 
Repaid $13.0 million of mortgage loans.
                 
During February 2006, the Company repurchased 719,800 of its Common Shares on the open market at an average price of $43.76 per share. The Company paid approximately $31.5 million for these shares. These Common Shares were repurchased to offset the issuance of 661,962 OP Units in connection with a property acquisition and to partially offset restricted shares granted in February 2006.
See also Note 3 for discussion of the redemption notices on the Series G and H Preference Interests.
On March 2, 2006, the Company announced that it has retained JP Morgan to assist in the possible sale of its Lexford housing division. As of March 2, 2006, the division is comprised of 299 properties consisting of 27,390 apartment units located in ten states and a property management business located in Columbus, Ohio. Exploration of a sale does not mandate that a sale or other transaction will follow. The Company's Board of Trustees has not approved any specific transaction.
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company received proceeds from technology and other investments of $82.1 million from the following:
$25.0 million in full redemption of 1,000,000 shares of Wellsford 8.25% Convertible Trust Preferred Securities; and
                 
$57.1 million for its ownership interest in Rent.com in connection with the acquisition of Rent.com by eBay, Inc. The $57.1 million was recorded as interest and other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
                 
F-
41
 
On March 28, 2005, the Company and Bruce W. Duncan, the Company's former Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement (as further amended effective June 30, 2005, the "Amendment") to reflect changes required in view of Mr. Duncan's retirement as CEO and trustee effective December 31, 2005. The Amendment also amended Mr. Duncan's Deferred Compensation Agreement entered into in January 2003.  The Company recorded approximately $11.2 million of additional general and administrative expense during the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily related to accelerated vesting of share options and restricted/performance shares.
Effective February 28, 2005, the Company and Edward Geraghty, the President of the Company's Eastern Division, entered into a Separation Agreement and General Release reflecting Mr. Geraghty's resignation effective February 28, 2005. The Company recorded approximately $3.3 million of severance as additional general and administrative expense during the quarter ended March 31, 2005.
Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
22.
                              
The following unaudited quarterly data has been prepared on the basis of a December 31 year-end. All amounts have also been restated in accordance with the discontinued operations provisions of SFAS No 144 and reflect dispositions through March 31, 2006. Amounts are in thousands, except for per share amounts.
 
 
The amounts presented for 2005 are not equal to the same amounts previously reported in the 2005 Form 10-K filed with the SEC primarily as a result of changes in discontinued operations due to additional property sales which occurred throughout the first three months of 2006 and the reclassification to allocate Minority Interests  Operating Partnership between continuing and discontinued operations. Below is a reconciliation to the amounts previously reported:
(1)
            
42
F-
 
 
43
F-
 
 
The amounts presented for 2004 are not equal to the same amounts previously reported in the 2005 Form 10-K filed with the SEC primarily as a result of changes in discontinued operations due to additional property sales which occurred throughout the first three months of 2006 and the reclassification to allocate Minority Interests  Operating Partnership between continuing and discontinued operations. Below is a reconciliation to the amounts previously reported:
(2)
            
44
F-
 
The Company did not have any extraordinary items or cumulative effect of change in accounting principle during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Therefore, income before extraordinary items and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle is not shown as it was equal to the net income amounts disclosed above.
*
                   
 
45
F-
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation Overall Summary December 31, 2005
(1) See attached Encumbrances Reconciliation.
(2) Represents the Company's ranch-style properties.
S-
1
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation Encumbrances Reconciliation December 31, 2005
 * Collateral also includes $2.9 million invested in U.S. Treasury Securities which is included in Deposits - Restricted in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2005.
S-
2
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
(Amounts in thousands)
The changes in total real estate for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:
 
The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 are as follows:
 
S-
3
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
 
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
 
 
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
 
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
 
 
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
 
 
S-
9
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
 
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
 
 
 
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
 
 
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
S-
14
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
S-
15
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
 
 
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
S-
17
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation December 31, 2005
 
 
 
NOTES:
The balance of furniture & fixtures included in the total investment in real estate amount was $753,616,116 as of December 31, 2005.
(A)
        
The aggregate cost for Federal Income Tax purposes as of December 31, 2005 was approximately $9.4 billion.
(B)
          
The life to compute depreciation for building is 30 years, for building improvements ranges from 5 to 10 years, for furniture & fixtures and replacements is 5 years, and for in-place leases is the average remaining term of each respective lease.
(C)
          
This asset consists of various acquisition dates and largely represents furniture, fixtures and equipment, leasehold improvements and capitalized software costs owned by the Management Business, which are generally depreciated over periods ranging from 3 to 7 years.
(D)
         
Primarily represents capital expenditures for major maintenance and replacements incurred subsequent to each property's acquisition date.
(E)
           
Represents land, construction-in-progress and/or miscellaneous pursuit costs on projects either held for future development or projects currently under development.
(F)
           
A portion or all of these properties includes commercial space (retail, parking and/or office space).
(G)
          
These three properties are pledged as additional collateral in connection with various tax-exempt bond financings.
(H)
         
Total properties and units exclude the Unconsolidated Properties consisting of 57 properties and 15,899 units.
(I)
              
 
Exhibit 12
 


