FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20070828092822.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events
 
Equity Residential (the "Company") is re-issuing in an updated format its historical financial statements to satisfy SEC requirements as they relate to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, .
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
 
In compliance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, the results of operations of the Company's consolidated properties that were sold during the first six months of 2007 were reported as a component of discontinued operations for each period presented (including the comparable period of the prior year) in the Company's second quarter 2007 quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 7, 2007. Under SEC requirements, the same reclassification as discontinued operations is required for previously issued annual financial statements for each of the three years shown in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K, if those financial statements are incorporated by reference in subsequent filings with the SEC made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, even though those financial statements relate to periods prior to the sale date.
 
The aforementioned reclassification has no effect on the Company's previously reported net income available to Common Shares or funds from operations ("FFO").
 
This report on Form 8-K updates Items 6, 7, 8 and 15 (Exhibit 12 only) of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 to reclassify those properties sold during the first six months of 2007 as a component of discontinued operations for each period presented in this annual report. Exhibit 12 also reflects certain interim information for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. All other items of the Company's Form 10-K remain unchanged. No attempt has been made to update matters in the Form 10-K except to the extent expressly provided above.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 12
 
(1)   For 2003 and 2002, the coverage deficiencies on both ratios approximated $33.0 million and $16.1 million, respectively. All ratios have been reduced due to the disposition of properties which resulted in the inclusion of those properties in discontinued operations for all periods presented. For 2003, the ratios have been further reduced due to the one-time $20.2 million premium on the redemption of the Series G Preferred Shares.

Exhibit 23.1
 
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Forms S-3 No. 333-45533, No. 333-39289, No. 333-141261, No. 333-100631, No. 333-63176, No. 333-80835, No. 333-72961, No. 333-12983, No. 333-06873, No. 33-97680, No. 33-84974, No.  333-135503 and No. 333-142723; Forms S-8 No. 333-06869, No. 333-107244, No. 333-83403, No. 333-102609, No. 333-66257 and No. 333-88237; and Forms S-4 No. 333-44576 and No. 333-35873) of Equity Residential and in the related Prospectuses of our report dated February 21, 2007 (except for Notes 12, 13 and 20, as to which the date is August 27, 2007), with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Equity Residential, included in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Item 6.    Selected Financial Data
 
The following table sets forth selected financial and operating information on a historical basis for the Company. The following information should be read in conjunction with all of the financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 8-K. The historical operating and balance sheet data have been derived from the historical financial statements of the Company. Certain amounts have also been restated in accordance with the discontinued operations provisions of SFAS No. 144. Certain capitalized terms as used herein are defined in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
Overview
 
The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition of the Company should be read in connection with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. Due to the Company's ability to control the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries other than entities owning interests in the Partially Owned Properties - Unconsolidated and certain other entities in which the Company has investments, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary entity has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined are as defined elsewhere in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
Forward-looking statements in this Item 7 as well as elsewhere in the Annual Report on Form 10-K are intended to be made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions made by management. While the Company's management believes the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, such information is inherently subject to uncertainties and may involve certain risks, which could cause actual results, performance, or achievements of the Company to differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond management's control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events. The Company assumes no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements because of subsequent events. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
We intend to actively acquire and develop multifamily properties for rental operations and/or conversion into condominiums, as well as upgrade and sell existing properties as individual condominiums. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired or development property up to standards established for its intended market position. Additionally, we expect that other major real estate investors with significant capital will
 - 
                 
compete with us for attractive investment opportunities or may also develop properties in markets where we focus our development efforts. This competition may increase prices for multifamily properties or decrease the price at which we expect to sell individual properties. We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms. We also plan to develop more properties ourselves in addition to co-investing with our development partners for either the rental or condominium market, depending on opportunities in each sub-market. This may increase the overall level of risk associated with our developments. The total number of development units, cost of development and estimated completion dates are subject to uncertainties arising from changing economic conditions (such as the cost of labor and construction materials), competition and local government regulation.
Sources of capital to the Company or labor and materials required for maintenance, repair, capital expenditure or development are more expensive than anticipated;
 - 
                 
Occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by national and local economic and market conditions including, without limitation, new construction of multifamily housing, slow employment growth, availability of low interest mortgages for single-family home buyers and the potential for geopolitical instability, all of which are beyond the Company's control; and
 - 
                 
Additional factors as discussed in Part I of the Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those under "Risk Factors".
 - 
                 
 
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Forward-looking statements and related uncertainties are also included in Notes 5 and 11 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
Results of Operations
 
In conjunction with our business objectives and operating strategy, the Company has continued to invest or recycle its capital investment in apartment properties located in strategically targeted markets during the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. In summary, we:
 
Year Ended December 31, 2006:
 
Acquired $1.8 billion of apartment properties consisting of 35 properties and 8,768 units, and $134.4 million of land parcels, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets; and
 - 
                 
Sold $2.3 billion of apartment properties consisting of 335 properties and 39,608 units, as well as 1,069 condominium units for $216.0 million and $1.6 million of land parcels.
 - 
                 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2005:
 
Acquired $2.5 billion of apartment properties consisting of 41 properties and 12,059 units, and $138.3 million of land parcels, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets; and
 - 
                 
Sold $1.4 billion of apartment properties consisting of 50 properties and 12,848 units, as well as 2,241 condominium units for $593.3 million and five land parcels for $108.3 million.
 - 
                 
On June 28, 2006, the Company announced that it agreed to sell its Lexford Housing Division for a cash purchase price of $1.086 billion. The sale closed on October 5, 2006. The Lexford Housing Division results are classified as discontinued operations, net of minority interests, in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. The Company recorded a gain on sale of approximately $418.7 million on the sale of the Lexford Housing Division in the fourth quarter of 2006.
In conjunction with the Lexford disposition, the Company paid off/extinguished $196.3 million of mortgage notes payable secured by the properties and incurred approximately $9.2 million in prepayment penalties upon extinguishment.
 
The Company's primary financial measure for evaluating each of its apartment communities is net operating income ("NOI"). NOI represents rental income less property and maintenance expense, real estate tax and insurance expense, and property management expense. The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of the operating performance of a real estate company because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Company's apartment communities.
 
Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2006 and 2005 (the "2006 Same Store Properties"), which represented 128,133 units, impacted the Company's results of operations. Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2005 and 2004 (the "2005 Same Store Properties"), which represented 154,854 units, also impacted the Company's results of operations. Both the 2006 Same Store Properties and 2005 Same Store Properties are discussed in the following paragraphs.
 
The Company's acquisition, disposition, completed development and consolidation of previously unconsolidated property and variable interest entity activities also impacted overall results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The impacts of these activities are also discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs.
 
Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2006 to the year ended December 31, 2005
 
For the year ended December 31, 2006, income from continuing operations, net of minority interests, decreased by approximately $53.0 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in continuing operations is discussed below.
 
Revenues from the 2006 Same Store Properties increased $88.7 million primarily as a result of higher rental rates charged to residents. Expenses from the 2006 Same Store Properties increased $23.9 million primarily due to higher maintenance, payroll, utility costs and real estate taxes. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2006 Same Store Properties:
 
 
 
 
The following table presents a reconciliation of operating income per the consolidated statements of operations included in the original Form 10-K to NOI for the 2006 Same Store Properties (table has not been updated to reflect discontinued operations treatment for properties sold in the first six months of 2007).
 
For properties that the Company acquired prior to January 1, 2006 and expects to continue to own through December 31, 2007, the Company anticipates the following same store results for the full year ending December 31, 2007:
 
 
These 2007 assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.
 
Non-same store operating results increased $151.0 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2006 and 2005 as well as our corporate housing business.
 
See also Note 20 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company's segment disclosures.
 
Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses decreased $1.5 million primarily as a result of lower income earned from managing fewer properties for third parties and unconsolidated entities. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company managed 15,020 units and 16,269 units, respectively, for third parties and unconsolidated entities.
 
Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company's properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses increased by approximately $9.3 million or 10.7%. This increase is primarily attributable to higher overall payroll costs and higher overall computer and training costs specific to the Company's rollout of a new property management system.
 
Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased $121.1 million primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on newly acquired properties and capital expenditures for all properties owned.
 
General and administrative expenses, which include corporate operating expenses, decreased approximately $21.9 million between the periods under comparison. This decrease was primarily due to lower executive compensation expense due to severance costs for several executive officers incurred during the year ended December 31, 2005 and a $2.8 million reimbursement of legal expenses during the year ended
December 31, 2006. The Company anticipates that general and administrative expenses will approximate $50.0 million to $52.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2007. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.
 
Impairment from continuing operations increased $33.4 million between periods under comparison. This increase was primarily due to an impairment charge on goodwill of $30.0 million related to the corporate housing business and $2.0 million related to the write-off of various deferred sales costs following the decision to halt the condominium conversion and sale process at five assets.
 
Interest and other income from continuing operations decreased by approximately $37.4 million, primarily as a result of the $57.1 million in cash received during the year ended December 31, 2005 for the Company's ownership interest in Rent.com, which was acquired by eBay, Inc. This was partially offset by the $3.7 million in additional proceeds for Rent.com, an increase in interest earned on tax deferred 1031 exchange proceeds from the Lexford disposition and $14.7 million of forfeited deposits for various terminated transactions received during the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $67.4 million primarily as a result of higher variable interest rates and overall debt levels outstanding. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $20.7 million as compared to $13.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2006 was 6.21% as compared to 6.16% for the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
Loss from investments in unconsolidated entities increased approximately $1.1 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily the result of consolidating previously unconsolidated properties as of January 1, 2006 as the result of EITF Issue No. 04-5. See Note 4 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
 
Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities decreased $1.0 million, due to increased unconsolidated sales during the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
Net gain on sales of land parcels decreased $27.5 million, due to a large gain recorded on the sale of one land parcel during the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
Discontinued operations, net of minority interests, increased approximately $264.0 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily the result of lower real estate net book values for properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005. See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
 
Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2005 to the year ended December 31, 2004
 
For the year ended December 31, 2005, income from continuing operations, net of minority interests, increased by approximately $59.6 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in continuing operations is discussed below.
 
Revenues from the 2005 Same Store Properties increased $61.9 million primarily as a result of lower concessions provided residents and a slight increase in average occupancy rates. Expenses from the 2005 Same Store Properties increased $36.2 million primarily due to higher payroll, utility costs and real estate taxes. The following tables provide comparative revenue, expense, NOI and weighted average occupancy for the 2005 Same Store Properties:
 
 
 
 
Non-same store operating results increased $78.6 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2005 and 2004 as well as our corporate housing business.
 
Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, decreased by $1.5 million primarily as a result of lower income earned from Ft. Lewis and managing fewer properties for third parties and unconsolidated entities. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company managed 16,269 units and 17,988 units, respectively, for third parties and unconsolidated entities.
 
Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company's properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses increased by approximately $10.3 million or 13.4%. This increase is primarily attributable to higher overall payroll costs including bonuses, long-term compensation costs and an increase of the Company's match for employee 401(k) contributions.
 
Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased $58.2 million primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on newly acquired properties and capital expenditures for all properties involved.
 
General and administrative expenses, which include corporate operating expenses, increased approximately $23.3 million between the periods under comparison. This increase was primarily due to higher executive compensation expense due to severance costs of $9.8 million for several executive officers, $7.9 million of additional accruals specific to performance shares for selected executive officers and a $2.5 million profit sharing accrual paid in the first quarter of 2006.
 
Interest and other income from continuing operations increased approximately $59.7 million, primarily as a result of the $57.1 million in cash received for the Company's ownership interest in Rent.com, which was acquired by eBay, Inc.
 
Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $56.6 million primarily as a result of higher overall debt balances as well as higher variable interest rates. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $13.7 million as compared to $14.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest
cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2005 was 6.16% as compared to 5.87% for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
(Loss) income from investments in unconsolidated entities increased approximately $7.8 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily the result of consolidation of properties that were previously unconsolidated in the first quarter of 2004.
 
Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities decreased $3.3 million, primarily due to a decrease in the number of unconsolidated entities sold.
 
Net gain on sales of land parcels increased $24.8 million, primarily due to an increase in the number of land parcels sold and large gains recorded on two land parcels located in Tyson's Corner, Virginia.
 
Discontinued operations, net of minority interests, increased approximately $329.9 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily the result of higher per unit sales prices and lower real estate net book values for properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the same period in 2004 as well as higher condominium sales. The Company recognized $91.6 million and $32.1 million of net incremental gain on sales of condominium units (net of provision for income taxes) for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 2006
 
As of January 1, 2006, the Company had approximately $88.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and $780.8 million available under its line of credit (net of $50.2 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and not available for borrowing). After taking into effect the various transactions discussed in the following paragraphs and the net cash provided by operating activities, the Company's cash and cash equivalents balance at December 31, 2006 was approximately $260.3 million and the amount available on the Company's revolving credit facilities was $470.7 million (net of $69.3 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and not available for borrowing).
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company generated proceeds from various transactions, which included the following:
 
Disposed of 340 properties, various individual condominium units and two land parcels, receiving net proceeds of approximately $2.3 billion;
 - 
                 
Obtained $395.5 million in net proceeds from the issuance of $400.0 million of ten and one-half year 5.375% fixed rate public notes and terminated six forward starting swaps designated to hedge the note issuance, receiving net proceeds of $10.7 million;
 - 
                 
Obtained $637.0 million in net proceeds from the issuance of $650.0 million of twenty year 3.85% exchangeable fixed rate public notes;
 - 
                 
Obtained $267.0 million in new mortgage financing; and
 - 
                 
Issued approximately 2.9 million Common Shares and received net proceeds of $77.7 million.
 - 
                 
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the above proceeds were primarily utilized to:
 
Invest $291.3 million primarily in development projects;
 - 
                 
Acquire 35 properties and nine land parcels, utilizing cash of $1.7 billion;
 - 
                 
Repurchase 1.9 million Common Shares utilizing cash of $83.2 million;
 - 
                 
Repay $493.0 million of mortgage loans;
 - 
                 
Repay $60.0 million of fixed rate public notes;
 - 
                 
Redeem the series G Preference Interests at a liquidation value of $25.5 million; and
 - 
                 
Redeem the Series C Preferred Shares at a liquidation value of $115.0 million.
 - 
                 
 
Depending on its analysis of market prices, economic conditions, and other opportunities for the investment of available capital, the Company may repurchase its Common Shares pursuant to its existing share buyback program authorized by the Board of Trustees. The Company repurchased $83.2 million (1,897,912 shares at an average price per share of $43.85) of its Common Shares during the year ended December 31, 2006 to offset the issuance of 1,144,326 OP Units in connection with three property acquisitions and to partially offset restricted shares granted and ESPP shares purchased during the year ended December 31, 2006. The Company is authorized to repurchase approximately $501.8 million of additional Common Shares.
 
The Company's total debt summary and debt maturity schedules as of December 31, 2006, are as follows:
 
 
 
 
The following table provides a summary of the Company's unsecured debt as of December 31, 2006:
 
 
 
As of February 28, 2007, an unlimited amount of debt securities remains available for issuance by the Operating Partnership under a registration statement that became automatically effective upon filing with the SEC in June 2006 (under SEC regulations enacted in 2005, the registration statement automatically expires on June 29, 2009 and does not contain a maximum issuance amount) and $956.5 million in equity
securities remains available for issuance by the Company under a registration statement the SEC declared effective in February 1998.
 
The Company's "Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio" as of December 31, 2006 is presented in the following table. The Company calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Common Shares and assumed conversion of all OP Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company's Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange; (ii) the "Common Share Equivalent" of all convertible preferred shares and preference interests/units; and (iii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preferred shares and preference interests outstanding.
 
 
 
 
 
The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements, including capital expenditures related to maintaining its existing properties and certain scheduled unsecured note and mortgage note repayments, generally through its working capital, net cash provided by operating
activities and borrowings under its revolving credit facilities. The Company considers its cash provided by operating activities to be adequate to meet operating requirements and payments of distributions. The Company also expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled unsecured note and mortgage debt maturities, property acquisitions, financing of construction and development activities and capital improvements through the issuance of unsecured notes and equity securities, including additional OP Units, and proceeds received from the disposition of certain properties. In addition, the Company has significant unencumbered properties available to secure additional mortgage borrowings in the event that the public capital markets are unavailable or the cost of alternative sources of capital is too high. The fair value of and cash flow from these unencumbered properties are in excess of the requirements the Company must maintain in order to comply with covenants under its unsecured notes and line of credit. Of the $17.2 billion in investment in real estate on the Company's balance sheet at December 31, 2006, $11.6 billion or 67.0%, was unencumbered.
 
The Operating Partnership's senior debt credit ratings from Standard & Poors ("S&P"), Moody's and Fitch are A-, Baal (positive outlook) and A, respectively. The Company's preferred equity ratings from S&P, Moody's and Fitch are BBB+, Baa2 (positive outlook) and A-, respectively.
 
The Operating Partnership has a long-term revolving credit facility with potential borrowings of up to $1.0 billion which matures in May 2008. This facility may, among other potential uses, be used to fund property acquisitions, costs for certain properties under development and short term liquidity requirements. As of February 26, 2007, $740.0million was outstanding under this facility.
 
See Note 21 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the events which occurred subsequent to December 31, 2006.
 
Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate
 
Our policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize expenditures that improve the value of the property or extend the useful life of the component asset of the property. We track improvements to real estate in two major categories and several subcategories:
 
Replacements. These include:
 - 
            
(inside the unit)
flooring such as carpets, hardwood, vinyl, linoleum or tile;
 - 
                 
appliances;
 - 
                 
mechanical equipment such as individual furnace/air units, hot water heaters, etc;
 - 
                 
furniture and fixtures such as kitchen/bath cabinets, light fixtures, ceiling fans, sinks, tubs, toilets, mirrors, countertops, etc; and
 - 
                 
blinds/shades.
 - 
                 
 
All replacements are depreciated over a five-year estimated useful life. We expense as incurred all maintenance and turnover costs such as cleaning, interior painting of individual units and the repair of any replacement item noted above.
 
Building improvements (). These include:
 - 
            
outside the unit
roof replacement and major renovations;
 - 
                 
paving or major resurfacing of parking lots, curbs and sidewalks;
 - 
                 
amenities and common areas such as pools, exterior sports and playground equipment, lobbies, clubhouses, laundry rooms, alarm and security systems and offices;
 - 
                 
major building mechanical equipment systems;
 - 
                 
interior and exterior structural repair and exterior painting and siding;
 - 
                 
major landscaping and grounds improvement; and
 - 
                 
vehicles and office and maintenance equipment.
 - 
                 
All building improvements are depreciated over a five to ten-year estimated useful life. We capitalize building improvements and upgrades only if the item: (i) exceeds $2,500 (selected projects must exceed $10,000); (ii) extends the useful life of the asset; and (iii) improves the value of the asset.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2006, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $255.2 million. This includes the following detail (amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts):
 
 
 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2005, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $232.5 million. This includes the following detail (amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts):
 
 
 
 
million for capital expenditures for replacements and building improvements for all consolidated properties, exclusive of condominium conversion properties, in 2007. This includes an average of approximately $1,000 per unit for capital improvements for established properties.
The Company expects to fund approximately $145.0
million. The Company expects to fund approximately $8.2 million in total additions to non-real estate property in 2007.
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company's total non-real estate capital additions, such as computer software, computer equipment, and furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements to the Company's property management offices and its corporate offices, were approximately $10.7
 
Improvements to real estate and additions to non-real estate property were funded from net cash provided by operating activities.
 
Derivative Instruments
 
In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the effect of interest rate changes. The Company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate risk on debt instruments.
 
The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the Company has not sustained a material loss from those instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives.
 
See Note 11in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of derivative instruments at December 31, 2006.
 
Other
 
Minority Interests as of December 31, 2006 decreased by $10.7 million when compared to December 31, 2005. The primary factors that impacted this account in the Company's consolidated statements of operations and balance sheets during the year ended December 31, 2006 were:
 
The redemption or repurchase of 1.0 million units of Series G, H and I Preference Interests with a combined liquidation value of $48.5 million and a premium on redemption of $0.7 million (see Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion);
 - 
                 
Distributions declared to Minority Interests, which amounted to $36.2 million (excluding Junior Preference Unit and Preference Interest distributions);
 - 
                 
The allocation of income from operations to holders of OP Units in the amount of $72.6 million;
 - 
                 
The issuance of 1,144,326 OP Units for the acquisition of three properties with a valuation of $49.6 million; and
 - 
                 
The conversion of 1.7 million OP Units into Common Shares valued at $27.9 million.
 - 
                 
 
Total distributions paid in January 2007 amounted to $152.4 million (excluding distributions on Partially Owned Properties), which included certain distributions declared during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2006.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations
 
The Company has co-invested in various properties that are unconsolidated and accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Management does not believe these investments have a materially different impact upon the Company's liquidity, capital resources, credit or market risk than its property management and ownership activities. During 2000 and 2001, the Company entered into institutional ventures with an unaffiliated partner. At the respective closing dates, the Company sold and/or contributed 45 properties containing 10,846 units to these ventures and retained a 25% ownership interest in the ventures. The Company's joint venture partner contributed cash equal to 75% of the
agreed-upon equity value of the properties comprising the ventures, which was then distributed to the Company. The Company's strategy with respect to these ventures was to reduce its concentration of properties in a variety of markets.
 
As of December 31, 2006, the Company has 11 projects totaling 3,448 units in various stages of development with estimated completion dates ranging through June 30, 2009. The development agreements currently in place are discussed in detail in Note 18 of the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
See also Notes 2 and 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company's investments in partially owned entities.
 
The following table summarizes the Company's contractual obligations for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2006:
 
 
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 
The Company's significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies were followed in preparing the consolidated financial statements at and for the year ended December 31, 2006 and are consistent with the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
The Company has identified six significant accounting policies as critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are those that have the most impact on the reporting of our financial condition and those requiring significant judgments and estimates. With respect to these critical accounting policies, management believes that the application of judgments and assessments is consistently applied and produces financial information that fairly presents the results of operations for all periods presented. The six critical accounting policies are:
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill
 
The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets, including its investments in real estate and goodwill, for indicators of permanent impairment. The judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions, expected holding period of each asset and legal and environmental concerns. Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.
Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate
 
The Company depreciates the building component of its investment in real estate over a 30-year estimated useful life, building improvements over a 5-year to 10-year estimated useful life and both the furniture, fixtures and equipment and replacements components over a 5-year estimated useful life, all of which are judgmental determinations.
 
Cost Capitalization
 
See the section for discussion of the policy with respect to capitalization vs. expensing of fixed asset/repair and maintenance costs. In addition, the Company capitalizes the payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on the supervision of major capital and/or renovation projects. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as an increase to depreciable property.
Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate
 
The Company follows the guidance in SFAS No. 67, , for all development projects and uses its professional judgment in determining whether such costs meet the criteria for capitalization or must be expensed as incurred. The Company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and insurance and payroll and associated costs for those individuals directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on development activities, with capitalization ceasing no later than 90 days following issuance on the certificate of occupancy. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as construction in progress for each specific property. The Company expenses as incurred all payroll costs of on-site employees working directly at our properties, except as noted above on our development properties prior to certificate of occupancy issuance and on specific major renovation at selected properties when additional incremental employees are hired.
Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments, Including Derivative Instruments
 
The valuation of financial instruments under SFAS No. 107 and SFAS No. 133 and its amendments (SFAS Nos. 137/138/149) requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. The Company, where possible, bases the fair values of its financial instruments, including its derivative instruments, on listed market prices and third party quotes. Where these are not available, the Company bases its estimates on current instruments with similar terms and maturities or on other factors relevant to the financial instruments.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Rental income attributable to leases is recorded when due from residents and is recognized monthly as it is earned, which is not materially different than on a straight-line basis. Leases entered into between a resident and a property for the rental of an apartment unit are generally year-to-year, renewable upon consent of both parties on an annual or monthly basis. Fee and asset management revenue and interest income are recorded on an accrual basis.
 
Share-Based Compensation
 
The Company elected to account for its stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123 (R), , effective January 1, 2006, which results in compensation expense being recorded based on the fair value of the share compensation granted.
Share-Based Payment
 
The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. This model is only one method of valuing options and the Company's use of this model should not be interpreted as an endorsement of its accuracy. Because the Company's share options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value
estimate, in management's opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of fair value of its share options and the actual value of the options may be significantly different.
 
Funds From Operations
 
For the year ended December 31, 2006, Funds From Operations ("FFO") available to Common Shares and OP Units decreased $68.5 million, or 8.7%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2005, FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units increased $132.9 million, or 20.4%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
The following is a reconciliation of net income to FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units for each of the five years ended December 31, 2006:
 
 
 
                              
                              
 
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-1.
 
All other schedules have been omitted because they are inapplicable, not required or the information is included elsewhere in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
 
To the Board of Trustees and Shareholders
Equity Residential
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Equity Residential (the "Company") as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006.  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index to the financial statements and schedule.  These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Equity Residential at December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Equity Residential's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on the criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 21, 2007 (not provided herein) expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.
                                     
Business
 
Equity Residential ("EQR"), a Maryland real estate investment trust ("REIT") formed in March 1993, is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of high quality apartment properties in top United States growth markets.  EQR has elected to be taxed as a REIT.
 
EQR is the general partner of, and as of December 31, 2006 owned an approximate 93.6% ownership interest in, ERP Operating Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the "Operating Partnership").   The Company is structured as an umbrella partnership REIT ("UPREIT"), under which all property ownership and business operations are conducted through the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries.  References to the "Company" include EQR, the Operating Partnership and those entities owned or controlled by the Operating Partnership and/or EQR.
 
As of December 31, 2006, the Company, directly or indirectly through investments in title holding entities, owned all or a portion of 617properties in 25 states and the District of Columbia consisting of 165,716 units.  The ownership breakdown includes (table does not include various uncompleted development properties):
 
 
The "Wholly Owned Properties" are accounted for under the consolidation method of accounting.  The Company beneficially owns 100% fee simple title to 545 of the 546 Wholly Owned Properties.  The Company owns the building and improvements and leases the land underlying the improvements under a long-term ground lease that expires in 2026 for one property.  This one property is consolidated and reflected as a real estate asset while the ground lease is accounted for as an operating lease in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 13, .
Accounting for Leases
 
The "Partially Owned Properties" are controlled by the Company but have partners with minority interests and are accounted for under the consolidation method of accounting.  The "Partially Owned Properties - Unconsolidated" are partially owned but not controlled by the Company and consists of investments in partnership interests and/or subordinated mortgages that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  The "Military Housing (Fee Managed)" property consists of an investment in a limited liability company that, as a result of the terms of the operating agreement, is accounted for as a management contract right with all fees recognized as fee and asset management revenue.
 
2.
                                     
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
Basis of Presentation
 
Due to the Company's ability as general partner to control either through ownership or by contract the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, other than entities that own controlling interests in the Partially Owned Properties  Unconsolidated and certain other entities in which the Company has investments, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes.  Effective March 31, 2004, the consolidated financial statements also include all variable interest entities for which the Company is the primary beneficiary.
The Company's mergers and acquisitions were accounted for as purchases in accordance with either Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 16, , or SFAS No. 141, .  SFAS No. 141 requires all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 be accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the consideration given by the Company in the mergers were used as the valuation basis for each of the combinations.  The accompanying consolidated statements of operations and cash flows include the results of the properties purchased through the mergers and through acquisitions from their respective closing dates.
Business Combinations
Business Combinations
 
Real Estate Assets and Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate
 
The Company allocates the purchase price of properties to net tangible and identified intangible assets acquired based on their fair values in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 141.  In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, the Company utilizes a number of sources, including independent appraisals that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of the respective property, our own analysis of recently acquired and existing comparable properties in our portfolio, and other market data.  The Company also considers information obtained about each property as a result of its pre-acquisition due diligence, marketing and leasing activities in estimating the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired.  The Company allocates the purchase price of acquired real estate to various components as follows:
 
Land  Based on actual purchase price if acquired separately or market research/comparables if acquired with an operating property.
 - 
                 
Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment  Ranges between $8,000 and $13,000 per apartment unit acquired as an estimate of the fair value of the appliances & fixtures inside a unit.  The per-unit amount applied depends on the type of apartment building acquired.  Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method over an estimated useful life of five years.
 - 
                 
In-Place Leases  The Company considers the value of acquired in-place leases that meet the definition outlined in SFAS No. 141, paragraph 37.  The amortization period is the average remaining term of each respective in-place acquired lease.
 - 
                 
Other Intangible Assets  The Company considers whether it has acquired other intangible assets that meet the definition outlined in SFAS No. 141, paragraph 39, including any customer relationship intangibles.  The amortization period is the estimated useful life of the acquired intangible asset.
 - 
                 
Building  Based on the fair value determined on an "as-if vacant" basis.  Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method over an estimated useful life of thirty years.
 - 
                 
 
Replacements inside a unit such as appliances and carpeting are depreciated over a five-year estimated useful life.  Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed to operations as incurred and significant renovations and improvements that improve and/or extend the useful life of the asset are capitalized over their estimated useful life, generally five to ten years.  Initial direct leasing costs are expensed as incurred as such expense approximates the deferral and amortization of initial direct leasing costs over the lease terms.  Property sales or dispositions are recorded when title transfers to unrelated third parties, contingencies have been removed and sufficient cash consideration has been received by the Company.  Upon disposition, the related costs and accumulated depreciation are removed from the respective accounts.  Any gain or loss on sale is recognized in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
 
The Company classifies real estate assets as real estate held for disposition when it is certain a property will be disposed of in accordance with SFAS No. 144 (see further discussion below).
 
The Company classifies properties under development and/or expansion and properties in the lease up phase (including land) as construction in progress until construction has been completed and all certificates of occupancy permits have been obtained.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill
 
In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 142, .  SFAS No. 142 prohibits the amortization of goodwill and requires that goodwill be reviewed for impairment at least annually.  In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144,   SFAS Nos. 142 and 144 were effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001.  The Company adopted these standards effective January 1, 2002.  See Notes 13 and 19 for further discussion.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.
 
The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets, including its investments in real estate and goodwill, for indicators of permanent impairment.  The judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions, expected holding period of each asset and legal and environmental concerns.  Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.
 
For long-lived assets to be held and used, the Company compares the expected future undiscounted cash flows for the long-lived asset against the carrying amount of that asset.  If the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset, the Company further analyzes each individual asset for other temporary or permanent indicators of impairment.  An impairment loss would be recorded for the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying amount of the asset if the Company deems this difference to be permanent.
 
For long-lived assets to be disposed of, an impairment loss is recognized when the estimated fair value of the asset, less the estimated cost to sell, is less than the carrying amount of the asset measured at the time that the Company has determined it will sell the asset.  Long-lived assets held for disposition and the related liabilities are separately reported at the lower of their carrying amounts or their estimated fair values, less their costs to sell, and are not depreciated after reclassification to real estate held for disposition.
 
Cost Capitalization
 
See the section for discussion of the policy with respect to capitalization vs. expensing of fixed asset/repair and maintenance costs.  In addition, the Company capitalizes the payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on the supervision of major capital and/or renovation projects.  These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as an increase to depreciable property.
Real Estate Assets and Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate
 
The Company follows the guidance in SFAS No. 67, , for all development projects and uses its professional judgment in determining whether such costs meet the criteria for capitalization or must be expensed as incurred.  The Company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and insurance and payroll and associated costs for those individuals directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on development activities, with capitalization ceasing no later than 90 days following issuance of the certificate of occupancy.  These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as construction in progress for each specific property.  The Company expenses as incurred all payroll costs of on-site employees working directly at our properties, except as noted above on our development properties prior to certificate of occupancy issuance and on specific major renovation at selected properties when additional incremental employees are hired.
Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The Company considers all demand deposits, money market accounts and investments in certificates of deposit and repurchase agreements purchased with a maturity of three months or less, at the date of purchase, to be cash equivalents.  The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents at financial
institutions.  The combined account balances at one or more institutions typically exceed the Federal Depository Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insurance coverage, and, as a result, there is a concentration of credit risk related to amounts on deposit in excess of FDIC insurance coverage.  The Company believes that the risk is not significant, as the Company does not anticipate the financial institutions' non-performance.
 
Deferred Financing Costs
 
Deferred financing costs include fees and costs incurred to obtain the Company's lines of credit and long-term financings.  These costs are amortized over the terms of the related debt.  Unamortized financing costs are written-off when debt is retired before the maturity date.  The accumulated amortization of such deferred financing costs was $24.5 million and $18.3 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments, Including Derivative Instruments
 
The valuation of financial instruments under SFAS No. 107, , and SFAS No. 133 and its amendments (SFAS Nos. 137/138/149), , requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments.  The Company, where possible, bases the fair values of its financial instruments, including its derivative instruments, on listed market prices and third party quotes. Where these are not available, the Company bases its estimates on other factors relevant to the financial instruments.
Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
 
In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the effect of interest rate changes.  The Company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate risk on debt instruments.
 
The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors.  When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the Company has not sustained a material loss from those instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives.
 
On January 1, 2001, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133 and its amendments (SFAS Nos. 137/138/149), which requires an entity to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and to measure those instruments at fair value.  Additionally, the fair value adjustments will affect either shareholders' equity or net income depending on whether the derivative instruments qualify as a hedge for accounting purposes and, if so, the nature of the hedging activity.  When the terms of an underlying transaction are modified, or when the underlying transaction is terminated or completed, all changes in the fair value of the instrument are marked-to-market with changes in value included in net income each period until the instrument matures.  Any derivative instrument used for risk management that does not meet the hedging criteria of SFAS No. 133 is marked-to-market each period.  The Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.
 
The fair value of the Company's mortgage notes payable and unsecured notes were approximately $3.2 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2006.  The fair values of the Company's financial instruments, other than mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes and derivative instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, lines of credit and other financial instruments, approximate their carrying or contract values.  See Note 11 for further discussion of derivative instruments.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Rental income attributable to leases is recorded when due from residents and is recognized monthly as it is earned, which is not materially different than on a straight-line basis.  Leases entered into between a resident and a property, for the rental of an apartment unit, are generally year-to-year, renewable upon
consent of both parties on an annual or monthly basis.  Fee and asset management revenue and interest income are recorded on an accrual basis.
 
Share-Based Compensation
 
The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), as required effective July 1, 2006.   SFAS No. 123(R) requires all companies to expense share-based compensation (such as share options), as well as making other revisions to SFAS No. 123.  As the Company began expensing all share-based compensation effective January 1, 2003, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) did not have a material effect on its consolidated statements of operations or financial position.
Share-Based Payment,
 
The cost related to share-based employee compensation included in the determination of net income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 is equal to that which would have been recognized if the fair value based method had been applied to all awards since the original effective date of SFAS No. 123.  The cost related to share-based employee compensation included in the determination of net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 is less than that which would have been recognized if the fair value based method had been applied to all awards since the original effective date of SFAS No. 123.  The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the fair value based method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested awards for the years ended December 31, 2004 (amounts in thousands except per share amounts):
 
 
The fair value of the option grants as computed under SFAS No. 123 would be recognized over the vesting period of the options.  The fair value for the Company's share options was estimated at the time the share options were granted using the Black Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:
 
The valuation method and assumptions are the same as those the Company used in accounting for option expense in its consolidated financial statements.  The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable.  This model is only one method of valuing options and the Company's use of this model should not be interpreted as an endorsement of its accuracy.  Because the Company's share options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its share options and the actual value of the options may be significantly different.
 
Income Taxes
 
Due to the structure of the Company as a REIT and the nature of the operations of its operating properties, no provision for federal income taxes has been made at the EQR level.  Historically, the Company has generally only incurred certain state and local income, excise and franchise taxes.  The Company has elected Taxable REIT Subsidiary ("TRS") status for certain of its corporate subsidiaries, primarily those entities engaged in condominium conversion and sale activities and as a result, these entities incurred federal and state income taxes.
 
The Company provided for current income, franchise and excise taxes allocated as follows in the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Primarily includes state and local income, excise and franchise taxes.  In 2006, also includes $2.9 million of federal income taxes related to a forfeited deposit on a terminated sale transaction and included in income from continuing operations.  In 2005, also includes $2.0 million of federal income taxes related to the sale of land parcels owned by a TRS and included in income from continuing operations.
(1)
         
 
Primarily represents federal income taxes incurred on the gains on sales of condominium units owned by a TRS and included in discontinued operations.  Also represents state and local income, excise and franchise taxes on operating properties sold and included in discontinued operations.
(2)
         
 
The Company utilized approximately $43.9 million of net operating losses ("NOL") during the year ended December 31, 2005 and had no NOL carryforwards available as of January 1, 2007 or 2006.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company's tax treatment of dividends and distributions were as follows:
 
The aggregate cost of land and depreciable property for federal income tax purposes as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 was approximately $10.2 billion and $9.4 billion, respectively.
 
Minority Interests
 
Operating Partnership:  Net income is allocated to minority interests based on their respective ownership percentage of the Operating Partnership.  The ownership percentage is calculated by dividing the number of units of limited partnership interest ("OP Units") held by the minority interests by the total OP Units held by the minority interests and EQR.  Issuance of additional common shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Common Shares"), and OP Units changes the ownership interests of both the minority interests and EQR.  Such transactions and the proceeds therefrom are treated as capital transactions.
 
Partially Owned Properties:  The Company reflects minority interests in partially owned properties on the balance sheet for the portion of properties consolidated by the Company that are not wholly owned by the Company.  The earnings or losses from those properties attributable to the minority interests are reflected as minority interests in partially owned properties in the consolidated statements of operations.
 
U
se of Estimates
 
In preparation of the Company's financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, management makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
 
Reclassifications
 
Certain reclassifications considered necessary for a fair presentation have been made to the prior period financial statements in order to conform to the current year presentation.  These reclassifications have not changed the results of operations or shareholders' equity.
 
Other
 
The Company adopted FASB Interpretation ("FIN") No. 46, as required, effective March 31, 2004.  The adoption required the consolidation of all previously unconsolidated development projects.  FIN No. 46 requires the Company to consolidate the assets, liabilities and results of operations of the activities of a variable interest entity, which for the Company includes only its development partnerships, if the Company is entitled to receive a majority of the entity's residual returns and/or is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from such entity's activities.  Due to the March 31, 2004 effective date, the Company has only consolidated the results of operations beginning April 1, 2004.  The adoption of FIN No. 46 did not have any effect on net income as the aggregate results
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,
of operations of these development properties were previously included in income (loss) from investments in unconsolidated entities.
 
The Company adopted the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 150 and FSP No. FAS 150-3, effective December 31, 2003.  SFAS No. 150 and FSP No. FAS 150-3 require the Company to make certain disclosures regarding noncontrolling interests that are classified as equity in the financial statements of a subsidiary but would be classified as a liability in the parent's financial statements under SFAS No. 150 (e.g., minority interests in consolidated limited-life subsidiaries).  The Company is presently the controlling partner in various consolidated partnerships consisting of 25 properties and 4,873 units and various uncompleted development properties having a minority interest book value of $26.8 million at December 31, 2006.  Some of these partnerships contain provisions that require the partnerships to be liquidated through the sale of its assets upon reaching a date specified in each respective partnership agreement.  The Company, as controlling partner, has an obligation to cause the property owning partnerships to distribute proceeds of liquidation to the Minority Interests in these Partially Owned Properties only to the extent that the net proceeds received by the partnerships from the sale of its assets warrant a distribution based on the partnership agreements.  As of December 31, 2006, the Company estimates the value of Minority Interest distributions would have been approximately $106.7 million ("Settlement Value") had the partnerships been liquidated.  This Settlement Value is based on estimated third party consideration realized by the partnerships upon disposition of the Partially Owned Properties and is net of all other assets and liabilities, including yield maintenance on the mortgages encumbering the properties, that would have been due on December 31, 2006 had those mortgages been prepaid.  Due to, among other things, the inherent uncertainty in the sale of real estate assets, the amount of any potential distribution to the Minority Interests in the Company's Partially Owned Properties is subject to change.  To the extent that the partnerships' underlying assets are worth less than the underlying liabilities, the Company has no obligation to remit any consideration to the Minority Interests in Partially Owned Properties.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity,
 
The Company adopted EITF Issue No. 04-5, ("Issue 04-5"), effective January 1, 2006.  Issue 04-5 provides guidance in determining whether a general partner controls a limited partnership.  The Company consolidated its Lexford syndicated portfolio consisting of 20 separate partnerships (10 properties) containing 1,272 units, all of which were sold October 5, 2006.  The adoption did not have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position.  See Note 4 for further discussion of the adoption of EITF Issue No. 04-5.
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
 
In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN No. 47, an interpretation of SFAS No. 143, .  A conditional asset retirement obligation refers to a legal obligation to retire assets where the timing and/or method of settlement are conditioned on future events.  FIN No. 47 requires an entity to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred if the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated.  The Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 47 for the year ended December 31, 2005.  The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,
Asset Retirement Obligations
 
In July 2006, the FASB ratified the consensus in FIN No. 48, .  FIN No. 48 creates a single model to address uncertainty in income tax positions and prescribes a minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements.  It also provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition and, clearly scopes income taxes out of SFAS No. 5, .  The Company will adopt FIN No. 48 as required effective January 1, 2007.  While still under review, based on analyses completed and knowledge of the Company's tax positions to date, adoption of FIN No. 48 is not expected to have a material effect on the consolidated results of operations or financial position.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
Accounting for Contingencies
3.             Shareholders' Equity and Minority Interests
 
The following tables present the changes in the Company's issued and outstanding Common Shares and OP Units for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
 
 
 
In February 1998, the Company filed and the SEC declared effective a Form S-3 Registration Statement to register $1.0 billion of equity securities.  In addition, the Company carried over $272.4 million related to a prior registration statement.  As of February 1, 2007, $956.5 million in equity securities remained available for issuance under this registration statement.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company repurchased 1,897,912 of its Common Shares on the open market at an average price of $43.85 per share.  The Company paid approximately $83.2 million for these shares, which were retired subsequent to the repurchase.
 
The equity positions of various individuals and entities that contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units are collectively referred to as the "Minority Interests  Operating Partnership".  Subject to certain restrictions, the Minority Interests  Operating Partnership may exchange their OP Units for EQR Common Shares on a one-for-one basis.
 
Net proceeds from the Company's Common Share and Preferred Share (see definition below) offerings are contributed by the Company to the Operating Partnership.  In return for those contributions,
EQR receives a number of OP Units in the Operating Partnership equal to the number of Common Shares it has issued in the equity offering (or in the case of a preferred equity offering, a number of preference units in the Operating Partnership equal in number and having the same terms as the Preferred Shares issued in the equity offering).  As a result, the net offering proceeds from Common Shares and Preferred Shares are allocated between shareholders' equity and Minority Interests  Operating Partnership to account for the change in their respective percentage ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating Partnership.
 
The Company's declaration of trust authorizes the Company to issue up to 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Preferred Shares"), with specific rights, preferences and other attributes as the Board of Trustees may determine, which may include preferences, powers and rights that are senior to the rights of holders of the Company's Common Shares.
 
The following table presents the Company's issued and outstanding Preferred Shares as of December 31, 2006 and 2005:
 
On or after the redemption date, redeemable preferred shares (Series D, K and N) may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation price per share, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any.
(1)
         
 
On or after the redemption date, convertible preferred shares (Series E & H) may be redeemed under certain circumstances at the option of the Company for cash (in the case of Series E) or Common Shares (in the case of Series H), in whole or in part, at various redemption prices per share based upon the contractual conversion rate, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any.
(2)
         
 
Dividends on all series of Preferred Shares are payable quarterly at various pay dates.  Dividend rates listed for Series D and N are Preferred Share rates and the equivalent Depositary Share annual dividend rates are $2.15 and $1.62, respectively.
(3)
         
 
Series D and N Preferred Shares each have a corresponding depositary share that consists of ten times the number of shares and one-tenth the liquidation value and dividend rate per share.
(4)
         
 
On August 9, 2006, the Company issued an irrevocable notice to redeem for cash on September 11, 2006 all 460,000 shares of its 9 1/8% Series C Preferred Shares.  The Company recorded approximately $4.0 million as a premium on redemption of Preferred Shares in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
(5)
         
 
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company redeemed for cash all 500,000 shares of its Series B Preferred Shares with a liquidation value of $125.0 million.  Additionally, the Company recorded the write-off of approximately $4.3 million in original issuance costs as a premium on redemption of Preferred Shares in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
The following table presents the issued and outstanding Preference Interests as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005:
 
 
On or after the fifth anniversary of the respective issuance (the "Redemption Date"), all of the Preference Interests may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference of $50.00 per unit plus the cumulative amount of accrued and unpaid distributions, if any.
(1)
         
 
On or after the tenth anniversary of the respective issuance (the "Conversion Date"), all of the Preference Interests are exchangeable at the option of the holder (in whole but not in part) on a one-for-one basis for a respective reserved series of EQR Preferred Shares.  In addition, on or after the Conversion Date, the convertible Preference Interests may be converted under certain circumstances at the option of the holder (in whole but not in part) to Common Shares based upon the contractual conversion rate, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any.  Prior to the Conversion Date, the convertible Preference Interests may be converted at the option of the holder (in whole but not in part) to Common Shares based upon the contractual conversion rate, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any, if the issuer has called the series for redemption (the "Accelerated Conversion Right").
(2)
         
 
Dividends on all series of Preference Interests are payable quarterly on March 25, June 25, September 25,and December 25of each year.
(3)
         
th
th
th
th
On February 15, 2006, the Company issued an irrevocable notice to redeem for cash on March 21, 2006 all 510,000 units of its 7.875% Series G Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $25.5 million.  The Company recorded approximately $0.7 million as a premium on redemption of Preference Interests (Minority Interests) in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
(4)
         
 
On February 15, 2006, the Company issued an irrevocable notice to redeem for cash on March 23, 2006 all 190,000 units of its 7.625% Series H Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $9.5 million.  This notice triggered the holder's Accelerated Conversion Right, which they exercised.  As a result, effective March 23, 2006, the 190,000 units were converted to 287,052 Common Shares.
(5)
         
 
On May 16, 2006, the Company issued an irrevocable notice to redeem for cash on June 22, 2006 all 270,000 units of its 7.625% Series I Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $13.5 million.  This notice triggered the holder's Accelerated Conversion Right, which they exercised.  As a result, effective June 22, 2006, the 270,000 units were converted to 392,634 Common Shares.
(6)
         
 
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company redeemed or repurchased for cash all of its Series B through F Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $146.0 million.  The Company recorded approximately $4.1 million as premiums on redemption of Preference Interests (Minority Interests) in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, which included $3.8 million in original issuance costs and $0.3 million in cash redemption charges.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company redeemed for cash all 800,000 units of its 8.00% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $40.0 million.  The Company recorded approximately $1.1 million as premiums on redemption of Preference Interests (Minority Interests) in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
The following table presents the Operating Partnership's issued and outstanding Junior Convertible Preference Units (the "Junior Preference Units") as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005:
 
 
Dividends on the Junior Preference Units are payable quarterly at various pay dates.
(1)
         
 
On or after the tenth anniversary of the issuance (the "Redemption Date"), the Series B Junior Preference Units may be converted into OP Units at the option of the Operating Partnership based on the contractual conversion rate.  Prior to the Redemption Date, the holders may elect to convert the Series B Junior Preference Units to OP Units under certain circumstances based on the contractual conversion rate.  The contractual rate is based upon a ratio dependent upon the closing price of EQR's Common Shares.
(2)
         
 
4.
                                     
Real Estate
 
The following table summarizes the carrying amounts for investment in real estate (at cost) as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 :
(Amounts in thousands)
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company acquired the entire equity interest in 35 properties containing 8,768 units and nine land parcels from unaffiliated parties for a total purchase price of $1.9 billion.  The Company also acquired the majority of its partners' interest in eighteen partially owned properties containing 1,643 units for $56.6 million, partially funded through the issuance of 417,039 OP Units valued at $18.6 million.
 
The Company adopted EITF Issue No. 04-5, as required for existing limited partnership arrangements, effective January 1, 2006.  The adoption required the consolidation of the Lexford syndicated portfolio consisting of 20 separate partnerships (10 properties) containing 1,272 units, all of which were sold October 5, 2006.  The Company recorded $24.6 million in investment in real estate and also:
 
      Consolidated $22.5 million in mortgage debt;
 - 
      Reduced investments in unconsolidated entities by $2.6 million;
 - 
      Consolidated $0.9 million of other liabilities net of other assets acquired; and
 - 
      Consolidated $1.4 million of cash.
 - 
 
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company acquired the entire equity interest in forty-one properties containing 12,059 units, inclusive of one additional unit at one existing property, and seven land parcels from unaffiliated parties for a total purchase price of $2.7 billion.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company also acquired a majority interest in the remaining equity interests it did not previously own in sixteen Partially Owned Properties, all of which remain partially owned.  The acquisitions were funded using $24.2 million in cash and through the issuance of 614,717 OP Units valued at $20.8 million, with $43.0 million recorded as additional building basis and $2.0 million recorded as a reduction of Minority Interests  Partially Owned Properties.  The Company also acquired the majority of the remaining third party equity interests it did not previously own in three properties, consisting of 211 units.  The properties were previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting and subsequent to each purchase were consolidated.  The Company recorded $5.6 million in investment in real estate and also:
 
      Assumed $2.8 million in mortgage debt;
 - 
      Reduced investments in unconsolidated entities by $1.2 million;
 - 
      Assumed $1.5 million of other liabilities net of other assets acquired; and
 - 
      Paid cash of $0.1 million (net of cash acquired).
 - 
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company disposed of the following to unaffiliated parties (sales price in thousands):
 
a net gain on sales of land parcels of approximately $2.8 million and a net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities of $0.4 million on the above sales.
The Company recognized a net gain on sales of discontinued operations of approximately $1.0 billion (amount is net of $3.2 million of income taxes incurred on condominium sales  see additional discussion in Note 2),
 
On June 28, 2006, the Company announced that it agreed to sell its Lexford Housing Division for a cash purchase price of $1.086 billion.  The sale closed on October 5, 2006.  The Lexford Housing Division results are classified as discontinued operations, net of minority interests, in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.  The Company recorded a gain on sale of approximately $418.7 million on the sale of the Lexford Housing Division in the fourth quarter of 2006.  In conjunction with the Lexford disposition, the Company paid off/extinguished $196.3 million of mortgage notes payable secured by the properties and incurred approximately $9.2 million in prepayment penalties upon extinguishment.  The Company also recorded approximately $4.5 million in one-time accrued retention benefits during the third quarter of 2006 related to the Lexford disposition.  These costs are included in discontinued operations, net of minority interests, in the consolidated statements of operations.  See Note 13 for additional information.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company disposed of the following to unaffiliated parties (sales price in thousands):
 
 
a net gain on sales of land parcels of approximately $30.2 million and a net gain on the sales of unconsolidated entities of $1.3 million on the above sales.
The Company recognized a net gain on sales of discontinued operations of approximately $697.7 million (amount is net of $8.8 million of income taxes incurred on condominium sales  see additional discussion in Note 2),
 
.            
5
Commitments to Acquire/Dispose of Real Estate
 
As of February 7, 2007, in addition to the properties that were subsequently acquired as discussed in Note 21, the Company had entered into separate agreements to acquire the following (purchase price in thousands):
 
 
As of February 7, 2007, in addition to the property that was subsequently disposed of as discussed in Note 21, the Company had entered into separate agreements to dispose of the following (sales price in thousands):
 
The closings of these pending transactions are subject to certain contingencies and conditions, therefore, there can be no assurance that these transactions will be consummated or that the final terms thereof will not differ in material respects from those summarized in the preceding paragraphs.
 
6.
                                           
Investments in Partially Owned Entities
 
The Company has co-invested in various properties with unrelated third parties which are either consolidated or accounted for under the equity method of accounting (unconsolidated).  The following table summarizes the Company's investments in unconsolidated entities as of December 31, 2006 (amounts in thousands except for project and unit amounts):
 
 
(1)   Project and unit counts exclude all uncompleted development projects until those projects are completed.
 
(2)   All debt is non-recourse to the Company with the exception of $28.3 million in mortgage bonds on one development project.
 
(3)   Represents the Company's economic ownership interest.
 
7.             Deposits - Restricted
 
The following table presents the deposits  restricted as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 (amounts in thousands):
 
8.
            
Mortgage Notes Payable
 
As of December 31, 2006, the Company had outstanding mortgage indebtedness of approximately $3.2 billion.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company:
 
Repaid $493.0 million of mortgage loans;
 - 
     
Assumed/consolidated $149.5 million of mortgage debt on certain properties in connection with their acquisition and/or consolidation;
 - 
     
Obtained $267.0 million of new mortgage loans on certain properties; and
 - 
     
Was released from $117.9 million of mortgage debt assumed by the purchaser on disposed properties.
 - 
     
 
As of December 31, 2006, scheduled maturities for the Company's outstanding mortgage indebtedness were at various dates through September 1, 2045.  At December 31, 2006, the interest rate range on the Company's mortgage debt was 3.32% to 12.465%.  During the year ended December 31, 2006, the weighted average interest rate on the Company's mortgage debt was 5.82%.
 
The historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation, of encumbered properties was $4.7 billion and $4.8 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
Aggregate payments of principal on mortgage notes payable for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
As of December 31, 2005, the Company had outstanding mortgage indebtedness of approximately $3.4 billion.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company:
 
Repaid $470.4 million of mortgage loans;
 - 
     
Assumed/consolidated $446.3 million of mortgage debt on certain properties in connection with their acquisition and/or consolidation;
 - 
     
Obtained $280.1 million of new mortgage loans on certain properties; and
 - 
     
Was released from $35.0 million of mortgage debt assumed by the purchaser on disposed properties.
 - 
     
 
As of December 31, 2005, scheduled maturities for the Company's outstanding mortgage indebtedness were at various dates through February 1, 2041.  At December 31, 2005, the interest rate range on the Company's mortgage debt was 3.35%to 12.465%.  During the year ended December 31, 2005, the weighted average interest rate on the Company's mortgage debt was 5.63%.
9.
            
Notes
 
The following tables summarize the Company's unsecured note balances and certain interest rate and maturity date information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively:
 
 
The Company's unsecured public debt contains certain financial and operating covenants including, among other things, maintenance of certain financial ratios.  The Company was in compliance with its unsecured public debt covenants for both the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
As of February 7, 2007, an unlimited amount of debt securities remains available for issuance by the Operating Partnership under a registration statement that became automatically effective upon filing with the SEC in June 2006 (under SEC regulations enacted in 2005, the registration statement automatically expires on June 29, 2009 and does not contain a maximum issuance amount).
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company:
 
Issued $400.0 million of ten and one-half year 5.375% fixed-rate public notes, receiving net proceeds of $395.5 million;
 - 
     
Issued $650.0 million of twenty year 3.85% fixed rate public notes that are exchangeable into EQR Common Shares, receiving net proceeds of $637.0 million (see further discussion below);
 - 
     
Repaid $60.0 million of fixed-rate public notes at maturity; and
 - 
     
Repaid $4.3 million of other unsecured notes.
 - 
     
 
On August 23, 2006, the Operating Partnership issued $650.0 million of exchangeable senior notes that mature on August 15, 2026.  The notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.85%.  The notes are exchangeable into EQR Common Shares, at the option of the holders, under specific circumstances or on or after August 15, 2025, at an initial exchange rate of 16.3934 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to an initial exchange price of $61.00 per share).  The initial exchange rate is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including upon an increase in the Company's dividend rate.  Upon an exchange of the notes, the Operating Partnership will settle any amounts up to the principal amount of the notes in cash and the remaining exchange value, if any, will be settled, at the Operating Partnership's option, in cash, EQR Common Shares or a combination of both.
On or after August 18, 2011, the Operating Partnership may redeem the notes at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon.  Upon notice of redemption by the Operating Partnership, the holders may elect to exercise their exchange rights.  In addition, on August 18, 2011, August 15, 2016 and August 15, 2021 or following the occurrence of certain change in control transactions prior to August 18, 2011, note holders may require the Operating Partnership to repurchase the notes for an amount equal to the principal amount of the notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
 
Note holders may also require an exchange of the notes should the closing sale price of Common Shares exceed 130% of the exchange price for a certain period of time or should the trading price on the notes be less than 98% of the product of the closing sales price of Common Shares multiplied by the applicable exchange rate for a certain period of time.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company:
 
Issued $500.0 million of ten and one-half year 5.125% fixed-rate public notes, receiving net proceeds of $496.2 million;
 - 
     
Had $300.0 million in fixed rate public notes remarketed as originally contemplated in a remarketing agreement entered into in connection with the original issuance of the notes, with the interest rate changing from 6.63% to 6.584% effective April 14, 2005 (notes still mature on April 13, 2015);
 - 
     
Repaid $190.0 million of fixed rate public notes at maturity; and
 - 
     
Repaid $4.3 million of other unsecured notes.
 - 
     
 
Aggregate payments of principal on unsecured notes payable for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
10.
         
Lines of Credit
 
The Operating Partnership has an unsecured revolving credit facility with potential borrowings of up to $1.0 billion maturing on May 29, 2008, with the ability to increase available borrowings by an additional $500.0 million under certain circumstances.  Advances under the credit facility bear interest at variable rates based upon LIBOR at various interest periods plus a spread dependent upon the Operating Partnership's credit rating or based on bids received from the lending group.  EQR has guaranteed the Operating Partnership's credit facility up to the maximum amount and for its full term.
 
On August 30, 2005, the Operating Partnership entered into a one-year $600.0 million revolving credit facility maturing on August 29, 2006.  This credit facility was repaid in full and terminated on January 20, 2006.
On July 6, 2006, the Operating Partnership entered into a one-year $500.0 million revolving credit facility maturing on July 6, 2007.  This facility was repaid in full and terminated on October 13, 2006.  Advances under this facility bore interest at variable rates based on LIBOR at various interest periods plus a spread dependent upon the Operating Partnership's credit rating.  EQR guaranteed this credit facility up to the maximum amount and for its full term.
 
As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, $460.0 million and $769.0 million, respectively, was outstanding and $69.3 million and $50.2 million, respectively, was restricted (dedicated to support letters of credit and not available for borrowing) on the credit facilities.  During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the weighted average interest rates were 5.40% and 3.80%, respectively.
 
11.
Derivative Instruments
         
 
The following table summarizes the consolidated derivative instruments at December 31, 2006 (dollar amounts are in thousands):
 
 
 
On December 31, 2006, the net derivative instruments were reported at their fair value as other assets of approximately $0.1 million and as other liabilities of approximately $16.3 million.  As of December 31, 2006, there were approximately $14.6 million in deferred losses, net, included in accumulated other comprehensive loss.  Based on the estimated fair values of the net derivative instruments at December 31, 2006, the Company may recognize an estimated $2.4 million of accumulated other comprehensive loss as additional interest expense during the year ending December 31, 2007.
 
In January 2006, the Company received approximately $10.7 million to terminate six forward starting swaps in conjunction with the issuance of $400.0 million of ten and one-half year unsecured notes.  The $10.7 million has been deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and will be recognized as a reduction of interest expense over the life of the unsecured notes.
 
12.
         
Earnings Per Share
 
The following tables set forth the computation of net income per share  basic and net income per share  diluted (amounts in thousands except per share amounts):
 
Convertible preferred shares/units that could be converted into 1,163,908, 1,772,048 and 3,215,472 weighted average Common Shares for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were outstanding but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.  In addition, the effect of the Common Shares that could ultimately be issued upon the conversion/exchange of the Operating Partnership's $650.0 million exchangeable senior notes were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.
For additional disclosures regarding the employee share options and restricted shares, see Notes 2 and 14.
 
13.
         
Discontinued Operations
 
The Company has presented separately as discontinued operations in all periods the results of operations for all consolidated assets disposed of on or after January 1, 2002 (the date of adoption of SFAS No. 144) and all operations related to condominium conversion properties effective upon their respective transfer into a TRS.  Results are reflective of dispositions through June 30, 2007.
 
The components of discontinued operations are outlined below and include the results of operations for the respective periods that the Company owned such assets during each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 (amounts in thousands).
 
 
For the properties sold during 2006 and the first six months of 2007 (excluding condominium conversion properties), the investment in real estate, net of accumulated depreciation, and the mortgage notes payable balances at December 31, 2005 were $1.7 billion and $485.8 million, respectively.  For the properties sold during the first six months of 2007 (excluding condominium conversion properties), the investment in real estate, net of accumulated depreciation, and the mortgage notes payable balances at December 31, 2006 were $454.8 million and $85.6 million, respectively.
 
The net real estate basis of the Company's condominium conversion properties owned by the TRS and included in discontinued operations (excludes the Company's five halted conversions as they are now held for use), which were included in investment in real estate, net in the consolidated balance sheets, was $95.4 million and $121.3 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
14.
         
Share Incentive Plans
 
On May 15, 2002, the shareholders of EQR approved the Company's 2002 Share Incentive Plan.  The maximum aggregate number of awards that may be granted under this plan may not exceed 7.5% of the Company's outstanding Common Shares calculated on a "fully diluted" basis and determined annually on the first day of each calendar year.  As of January 1, 2007, this amount equaled 23,574,211, of which 13,521,150 is available for future issuance.  No awards may be granted under the 2002 Share Incentive Plan after February 20, 2012.
 
Pursuant to the 2002 Share Incentive Plan and the Fifth Amended and Restated 1993 Share Option and Share Award Plan (collectively the "Share Incentive Plans"), officers, trustees and key employees of the Company may be granted share options to acquire Common Shares ("Options") including non-qualified share options ("NQSOs"), incentive share options ("ISOs") and share appreciation rights ("SARs"), or may be granted restricted or non-restricted shares, subject to conditions and restrictions as described in the Share Incentive Plans.  Finally, certain executive officers of the Company participate in the Company's performance based restricted share plan.  Options, SARs, restricted shares and performance shares are sometimes collectively referred to herein as "Awards".
 
The Options are generally granted at the fair market value of the Company's Common Shares at the date of grant, vest in three equal installments over a three year period, are exercisable upon vesting and expire ten years from the date of grant.  The exercise price for all Options under the Share Incentive Plans is equal to the fair market value of the underlying Common Shares at the time the Option is granted.  The Fifth Amended and Restated 1993 Share Option and Share Award Plan will terminate at such time as all outstanding Awards have expired or have been exercised/vested.  The Board of Trustees may at any time amend or terminate the Share Incentive Plans, but termination will not affect Awards previously granted.  Any Options which had vested prior to such a termination would remain exercisable by the holder.
 
As to the restricted shares that have been awarded through December 31, 2006, these shares generally vest three years from the award date.  During the three-year period of restriction, the Company's unvested restricted shareholders receive quarterly dividend payments on their shares at the same rate and on the same date as any other Common Share holder.  In addition, the Company's unvested restricted shareholders have the same voting rights as any other Common Share holder.  As a result, dividends paid on unvested restricted shares are included as a component of retained earnings (deficit) and have not been considered in reducing net income available to Common Shares in a manner similar to the Company's preferred share dividends for the earnings per share calculation.  If employment is terminated prior to the lapsing of the restriction, the shares are generally canceled.
 
In addition, each year prior to 2007, selected executive officers of the Company received performance-based awards.  Effective January 1, 2007, the Company has elected to discontinue the award of new performance-based award grants.  The executive officers have the opportunity to earn in Common
Shares an amount as little as 0% to as much as 225% of the target number of performance-based awards. The owners of performance-based awards have no right to vote, receive dividends or transfer the awards until Common Shares are issued in exchange for the awards.  The number of Common Shares the executive officer actually receives on the third anniversary of the grant date will depend on the excess, if any, by which the Company's Average Annual Return (i.e., the average of the Common Share dividends declared during each year as a percentage of the Common Share price as of the first business day of the first performance year and the average percentage increase in funds from operations ("FFO") for each calendar year on a per share basis over the prior year) for the three performance years exceeds the average of the 10-year Treasury Note interest rate as of the first business day in January of each performance year (the "T-Note Rate").
 
 
If the Company's Average Annual Return exceeds the T-Note Rate by an amount which falls between any of the percentages in excess of the 2% threshold, the performance-based award will be determined by extrapolation between the two percentages.  Fifty percent of the Common Shares to which an executive officer may be entitled under the performance share grants will vest, subject to the executive's continued employment with the Company, on the third anniversary of the award (which will be the date the Common Shares are issued); twenty-five percent will vest on the fourth anniversary and the remaining twenty-five percent will vest on the fifth anniversary.  The Common Shares will also fully vest upon the executive's death, retirement at or after age 62, disability or upon a change in control of the Company.
 
The following tables summarize compensation information regarding the performance shares, restricted shares, share options and ESPP for the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Compensation expense is recognized for all Awards over the vesting period.  The total compensation expense related to Awards not yet vested at December 31, 2006 is $23.7 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average term of 1.6 years.
 
See Note 2 for additional information regarding the Company's share-based compensation.
 
The table below summarizes the Award activity of the Share Incentive Plans and options assumed in connection with mergers (the "Merger Options") for the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
 
 
 
The following table summarizes information regarding options outstanding at December 31, 2006:
 
 
As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, 6,864,922 Options (with a weighted average exercise price of $25.60) and 6,851,442 Options (with a weighted average exercise price of $24.47) were exercisable, respectively.
 
15.
         
Employee Plans
 
The Company established an Employee Share Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") to provide employees and trustees the ability to annually acquire up to $100,000 of Common Shares of the Company.  In 2003, the Company's shareholders approved an increase in the aggregate number of Common Shares available under the ESPP to 7,000,000 (from 2,000,000).  The Company has 4,270,759 Common Shares available for purchase under the ESPP at December 31, 2006.  The Common Shares may be purchased quarterly at a price equal to 85% of the lesser of: (a) the closing price for a share on the last day of such quarter; and (b) the greater of: (i) the closing price for a share on the first day of such quarter, and (ii) the average closing price for a share for all the business days in the quarter.  The following table summarizes information regarding the Common Shares issued under the ESPP:
 
 
The Company established a defined contribution plan (the "401(k) Plan") to provide retirement benefits for employees that meet minimum employment criteria.  The Company matches dollar for dollar up to the first 3% of eligible compensation that a participant contributes to the 401(k) Plan (2% for 2004).
Participants are vested in the Company's contributions over five years.  The Company made contributions in the amount of $3.5 million and $1.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and expects to make contributions in the amount of approximately $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
The Company may also elect to make an annual discretionary profit-sharing contribution as a percentage of each individual employee's eligible compensation under the 401(k) Plan.  The Company expects to make contributions in the amount of approximately $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.  The Company made contributions of approximately $2.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and did not make a contribution for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
The Company established a supplemental executive retirement plan (the "SERP") to provide certain officers and trustees an opportunity to defer a portion of their eligible compensation in order to save for retirement.  The SERP is restricted to investments in Company Common Shares, certain marketable securities that have been specifically approved, and cash equivalents.  The deferred compensation liability represented in the SERP and the securities issued to fund such deferred compensation liability are consolidated by the Company and carried on the Company's balance sheet, and the Company's Common Shares held in the SERP are accounted for as a reduction to paid in capital.
 
16.
         
Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan
 
On November 3, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration Statement to register 14,000,000 Common Shares pursuant to a Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan (the "DRIP Plan").  The registration statement was declared effective on November 25, 1997.  The Company has 11,571,277 Common Shares available for issuance under the DRIP Plan at December 31, 2006.
 
The DRIP Plan provides holders of record and beneficial owners of Common Shares and Preferred Shares with a simple and convenient method of investing cash distributions in additional Common Shares (which is referred to herein as the "Dividend Reinvestment  DRIP Plan").  Common Shares may also be purchased on a monthly basis with optional cash payments made by participants in the DRIP Plan and interested new investors, not currently shareholders of the Company, at the market price of the Common Shares less a discount ranging between 0% and 5%, as determined in accordance with the DRIP Plan (which is referred to herein as the "Share Purchase  DRIP Plan").  Common Shares purchased under the DRIP Plan may, at the option of the Company, be directly issued by the Company or purchased by the Company's transfer agent in the open market using participants' funds.
 
17.
         
Transactions with Related Parties
 
The Company provided asset and property management services to certain related entities for properties not owned by the Company.  Fees received for providing such services were approximately $0.3 million, $0.2 million and $0.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
The Company leases its corporate headquarters from an entity controlled by EQR's Chairman of the Board of Trustees.  The lease terminates on July 31, 2011.  Amounts incurred for such office space for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were approximately $2.8 million, $2.1 million and $1.9 million.  The Company believes these amounts equal market rates for such space.
 
The Company had the following additional non-continuing related party transactions:
 
The Company reimbursed its Chief Operating Officer for the actual operating costs (excluding acquisition costs) of operating his personal aircraft for himself and other employees on Company
 - 
     
business in 2005 and 2004.  Amounts incurred were approximately $0.4 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
The Company leased space in an office building in Augusta, Georgia indirectly owned by one of EQR's former trustees since May 2003 and directly owned by an entity affiliated with the same EQR trustee from 1998 to 2003 (individual was a trustee through May 2004).  Approximately $0.2 million was incurred for such office space for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 - 
     
 
18.
         
Commitments and Contingencies
 
The Company, as an owner of real estate, is subject to various Federal, state and local environmental laws.  Compliance by the Company with existing laws has not had a material adverse effect on the Company.  However, the Company cannot predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations on its current properties or on properties that it may acquire in the future.
 
The Company is party to a housing discrimination lawsuit brought by a non-profit civil rights organization in April 2006 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland.  The suit alleges that the Company designed and built approximately 300 of its properties in violation of the accessibility requirements of the Fair Housing Act and Americans With Disabilities Act.  The suit seeks actual and punitive damages, injunctive relief (including modification of non-compliant properties), costs and attorneys' fees.  The Company believes it has a number of viable defenses, including that a majority of the named properties were completed before the operative dates of the statutes in question and/or were not designed or built by the Company.  Accordingly, the Company is defending the suit vigorously.  Due to the pendency of the Company's defenses and the uncertainty of many other critical factual and legal issues, it is not possible to determine or predict the outcome of the suit and as a result, no amounts have been accrued at December 31, 2006.  While no assurances can be given, the Company does not believe that the suit, if adversely determined, would have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
The Company does not believe there is any other litigation pending or threatened against it that, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably may be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company established a reserve and recorded a corresponding expense, net of insurance receivables, for estimated uninsured property damage at certain of its properties caused by various hurricanes in each respective year.  During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company received $12.1 million in insurance proceeds and recorded an additional $6.2 million of receivables in anticipation of proceeds expected.  As of December 31, 2006, a receivable of $5.1 million and a liability of $3.2 million are included in other assets and rents received in advance and other liabilities, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets.
 
As of December 31, 2006, the Company has eleven projects totaling 3,448 units in various stages of development with estimated completion dates ranging through June 30, 2009. The primary development agreements currently in place have the following key terms:
 
The first development partner has the right, at any time following completion of a project, to stipulate a value for such project and offer to sell its interest in the project to the Company based on such value.  If the Company chooses not to purchase the interest, the Company must agree to a sale of the project to an unrelated third party at such value.  The Company's partner must exercise this right as to all projects subject to the agreement within five years after the receipt of the final certificate of occupancy on the last developed property.
 - 
     
 
The second development partner has the right, at any time following completion of a project, to require the Company to purchase the partner's interest in that project at a mutually agreeable
 - 
       
price.  If the Company and the partner are unable to agree on a price, both parties will obtain appraisals.  If the appraised values vary by more than 10%, both the Company and its partner will agree on a third appraiser to determine which original appraisal is closest to its determination of value.  The Company may elect at that time not to purchase the property and instead, authorize its partner to sell the project at or above the agreed-upon value to an unrelated third party.  Five years following the receipt of the final certificate of occupancy on the last developed property, the Company must purchase, at the agreed-upon price, any projects remaining unsold.
 
The third development partner has the exclusive right for six months following stabilization, as defined, to market a subject project for sale.  Thereafter, either the Company or its development partner may market a subject project for sale.  If the Company's development partner proposes the sale, the Company may elect to purchase the project at the price proposed by its partner or defer the sale until two independent appraisers appraise the project.  If the two appraised values vary by more than 5%, a third appraiser will be chosen to determine the fair market value of the property.  Once a value has been determined, the Company may elect to purchase the property or authorize its development partner to sell the project at the agreed-upon value.
 - 
     
 
.
In addition, the Company has various deal-specific development agreements with partners, the overall terms of which are similar in nature to those described above
 
The Company's guaranty of a credit enhancement agreement with respect to certain tax-exempt bonds issued to finance certain public improvements at a multifamily development project was terminated effective May 2, 2005 as the tax-exempt bonds were redeemed in full and the associated letter of credit was cancelled.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, total operating lease payments incurred for office space, including a portion of real estate taxes, insurance, repairs and utilities, aggregated $6.7 million, $6.1 million and $5.8 million, respectively.
 
The Company has entered into a retirement benefits agreement with its Chairman of the Board of Trustees and deferred compensation agreements with its chief operating officer and two former chief executive officers.  During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company recognized compensation expense of $1.1 million, $2.2 million and $39,000, respectively, related to these agreements.
 
The following table summarizes the Company's contractual obligations for minimum rent payments under operating leases and deferred compensation for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2006:
 
 
 
19.
         
Impairment
 
The Company recorded approximately $30.0 million of asset impairment charges related to its write-down of the entire carrying value of the goodwill on its corporate housing business during the year ended December 31, 2006.  Following the guidance in SFAS No. 142, this charge was the result of the
continued poor operating performance of the corporate housing business and management's expectations for future performance.  This charge is reflected on the consolidated statements of operations as impairment.
 
The Company also took an impairment charge of $2.0 million related to the write-off of various deferred sales costs following the decision to halt the condominium conversion and sale process at five assets.   The remaining $2.0 million of impairment losses in 2006 along with the $0.6 million and $1.5 million of losses in 2005 and 2004, respectively, represent the write-off of various pursuit and out-of-pocket costs for terminated acquisition, disposition and development transactions.
 
20.
         
Reportable Segments
 
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by senior management.  Senior management decides how resources are allocated and assesses performance on a monthly basis.
 
The Company's primary business is owning, managing, and operating multifamily residential properties, which includes the generation of rental and other related income through the leasing of apartment units to residents.  Senior management evaluates the performance of each of our apartment communities individually and geographically, and both on a same store and non-same store basis; however, each of our apartment communities generally has similar economic characteristics, residents, products and services.  The Company's operating segments have been aggregated by geography in a manner identical to that which is provided to its chief operating decision maker.
 
The Company's fee and asset management, development (including FIN No. 46 partially owned properties), condominium conversion and corporate housing (Equity Corporate Housing or "ECH") activities are immaterial and do not individually meet the threshold requirements of a reportable segment as provided for in SFAS No. 131 and as such, have been aggregated in the tables presented below.
 
All revenues are from external customers and there is no customer who contributed 10% or more of the Company's total revenues during the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, or 2004.
 
The primary financial measure for the Company's rental real estate properties is net operating income ("NOI"), which represents rental income less:  1) property and maintenance expense; 2) real estate taxes and insurance expense; and 3) property management expense (all as reflected in the accompanying statements of operations).  The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of the operating performance of a real estate company because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Company's apartment communities.  Current year NOI is compared to prior year NOI and current year budgeted NOI as a measure of financial performance.  The following table presents NOI for each segment from our rental real estate specific to continuing operations as well as total assets for the years ended December 31, 2006, and 2005, respectively (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
 
The following table presents a reconciliation of NOI from our rental real estate specific to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively:
 
 
21.
         
Subsequent Events/Other
 
Subsequent to December 31, 2006 and through February 7, 2007, the Company:
 
Acquired $536.5 million of apartment properties consisting of nine properties and 2,905 units;
 - 
     
Sold one residential property consisting of 280 units for $14.4 million (excluding condominium units); and
 - 
     
Repaid $115.3 million of mortgage loans.
 - 
     
 
During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company received proceeds from technology and other investments of $4.0 million and $82.1 million, respectively, from the following:
 
$25.0 million in full redemption of 1,000,000 shares of Wellsford 8.25% Convertible Trust Preferred Securities during 2005;
 - 
     
$3.7 million and $57.1 million for its ownership interest in Rent.com in connection with the acquisition of Rent.com by eBay, Inc. in 2006 and 2005, respectively.  Both amounts were recorded as interest and other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations; and
 - 
     
$0.3 million as a partial distribution for its ownership interest in Constellation Real Technologies, LLC in 2006.  The amount was recorded as interest and other income.
 - 
     
 
During 2006, the Company recognized $14.7 million of forfeited deposits for various terminated transactions, included in interest and other income.
During the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company established a reserve of $6.2 million related to potential liabilities associated with certain asset sales.  While no assurances can be given, the Company does not believe that the potential issue, if adversely determined or settled, will have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
On March 28, 2005, the Company and Bruce W. Duncan, the Company's former Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement (as further amended effective June 30, 2005, the "Amendment") to reflect changes required in view of Mr. Duncan's retirement as CEO and trustee effective December 31, 2005.  The Amendment also amended Mr. Duncan's Deferred Compensation Agreement entered into in January 2003.   The Company recorded approximately $11.2 million of additional general and administrative expense during the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily related to accelerated vesting of share options and restricted/performance shares.
 
Effective February 28, 2005, the Company and Edward Geraghty, the President of the Company's Eastern Division, entered into a Separation Agreement and General Release reflecting Mr. Geraghty's resignation effective February 28, 2005.  The Company recorded approximately $3.3 million of severance as additional general and administrative expense during the quarter ended March 31, 2005.
 
22.
         
Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
 
The following unaudited quarterly data has been prepared on the basis of a December 31 year-end.  All amounts have also been restated in accordance with the discontinued operations provisions of SFAS No. 144 and reflect dispositions through June 30, 2007.  Amounts are in thousands, except for per share amounts.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(I)    See attached Encumbrances Reconciliation.
 
*      Collateral also includes $2.7 million invested in U.S. Treasury Securities which is included in Deposits - Restricted in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2006.
 
The changes in total real estate for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:
 
 
The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
(1)   See attached Encumberances Reconciliation
NOTES:
 
The balance of furniture & fixtures included in the total investment in real estate amount was $812,552,035 as of December 31, 2006.
(A)
              
The aggregate cost for Federal Income Tax purposes as of December 31, 2006 was approximately $10.2 billion.
(B)
                
The life to compute depreciation for building is 30 years, for building improvements ranges from 5 to 10 years, for furniture & fixtures and replacements is 5 years, and for in-place leases is the average remaining term of each respective lease.
(C)
                
This asset consists of various acquisition dates and largely represents furniture, fixtures and equipment, leasehold improvements and capitalized software costs owned by the Management Business, which are generally depreciated over periods ranging from 3 to 7 years.
(D)
               
Primarily represents capital expenditures for major maintenance and replacements incurred subsequent to each property's acquisition date.
(E)
                 
Represents land, construction-in-progress and/or miscellaneous pursuit costs on projects either held for future development or projects currently under development.
(F)
                 
A portion or all of these properties includes commercial space (retail, parking and/or office space).
(G)
                
These three properties are pledged as additional collateral in connection with various tax-exempt bond financings.
(H)
               
Total properties and units exclude both the Partially Owned Properties - Unconsolidated consisting of 45 properties and 10,846 units, and the Military Housing (Fee Managed) consisting of one property and 3,555 units.
(I)
                    
This asset has a new construction loan outstanding but no amounts had yet been drawn as of December 31, 2006.
(J)
                   


