FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20071031074850.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported):
  October 30, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2 below):
see
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14-d(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b)
On October 30, 2007, Equity Residential (the "Company") announced that Gerald A. Spector, 60, will retire as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company effective as of December 31, 2007.  The Company's Board of Trustees approved his continued service on the Board and appointed him Vice Chairman of the Board effective as of January 1, 2008.
The Company and Mr. Spector entered into a Retirement Agreement dated as of October 30, 2007 (the "Retirement Agreement"), a copy of which is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.The Retirement Agreementconfirms Mr. Spector:  (i) will remain eligible for a cash bonus and long-term compensation grant for his services performed in 2007 as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in accordance with the customary year-end evaluation process for all executive officers; and (ii) will receive the same compensation as the other non-employee trustees (other than the Chairman of the Board) for his service as Vice Chairman of the Board beginning January 1, 2008.  The Retirement Agreement also provides that Mr. Spector will remain eligible for all retirement benefits under the Company's Share Incentive Plan and his employment and retirement related agreements, provided he does not voluntarily leave the Board prior to age 62 in late 2008.  Finally, the Retirement Agreement confirms that Mr. Spector's Amended and Restated Change of Control /Severance Agreement dated November 15, 2001, has been terminated.
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
This Retirement Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into by and between Equity Residential (the "Company") and Gerald A. Spector (the "Executive") as of October 30, 2007.
 
 
Whereas, the Executive is currently Executive Vice President/Chief Operating Officer of the Company and a member of the Company's Board of Trustees.
Whereas, the Executive has voluntarily, without any inducement or coercion by the Company, elected to retire as an officer of the Company effective December 31, 2007 (the "Retirement Date").
Whereas, the Company desires to recognize the Executive's continuing value to the Company by appointing him Vice Chairman of its Board of Trustees effective January 1, 2008.
 
NOW THEREFORE, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
 
1.
              
The Executive resigns from his position as Executive Vice President/Chief Operating Officer of the Company and as a director, officer and employee of all subsidiaries of the Company effective as of the Retirement Date. Contemporaneously herewith, the Company's Board of Trustees has appointed the Executive as its Vice Chairman effective as of January 1, 2008.
 
2.
              
The Executive will remain eligible for a cash bonus and long-term compensation grant for services performed during 2007 based on the normal year-end evaluation process in effect for the Company's executive officers. The Executive shall receive no severance in connection with his retirement and change in responsibilities.
3.
              
The Executive will remain eligible for all the retirement benefits under the Company's Share Incentive Plan and his employment and retirement related agreements, subject to his not voluntarily leaving the Board prior to age 62.
 
4.
              
The Amended and Restated Change in Control/Severance Agreement entered into between the Company and the Executive dated November 15, 2001 is hereby null and void, and the Executive acknowledges that he has no claims of any kind or nature as of the date hereof against the Company or its subsidiaries, trustees, employees and affiliates.
 
In Witness Whereof, this Agreement has been executed as of the above date.
 
 
Equity Residential
 
By:                 By:
/s/ David J. Neithercut                                
/s/ Gerald A. Spector                                   
David J. Neithercut,                                                             Gerald A. Spector
Chief Executive Officer/President                                      Executive
 
 
 


