FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20080530085150.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events
 
Equity Residential (the "Company") is re-issuing in an updated format its historical financial statements to satisfy SEC requirements as they relate to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, .
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
 
In compliance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, the results of operations of the Company's consolidated properties that were sold during the first quarter of 2008 were reported as a component of discontinued operations for each period presented (including the comparable period of the prior year) in the Company's first quarter 2008 quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on May 8, 2008.  Under SEC requirements, the same reclassification as discontinued operations is required for previously issued annual financial statements for each of the three years shown in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K, if those financial statements are incorporated by reference in subsequent filings with the SEC made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, even though those financial statements relate to periods prior to the sale date.
 
The aforementioned reclassification has no effect on the Company's previously reported net income, net income available to Common Shares, funds from operations ("FFO") or FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units.
 
This report on Form 8-K updates Items 6, 7, 8 and 15 (Exhibit 12 only) of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 to reclassify those properties sold during the first quarter of 2008 as a component of discontinued operations for each period presented in the annual report.  Exhibit 12 also reflects certain interim information for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  All other items of the Company's Form 10-K remain unchanged.  No attempt has been made to update matters in the Form 10-K except to the extent expressly provided above.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 12
 
 
 
(1) For the quarter ended March 31, 2007, the coverage deficiencies on both ratios approximated $6.4 million.  For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2004 and 2003, the coverage deficiencies on both ratios approximated $16.9 million, $31.5 million and $72.9 million, respectively.  All ratios have been reduced due to the disposition of properties which resulted in the inclusion of those properties in discontinued operations for all periods presented.  For all periods presented, the ratios have been further reduced due to non-cash depreciation expense charges and premiums on the redemption of Preferred Shares and/or Preference Interests.  The Company was in compliance with its unsecured public debt covenants for all periods presented.

Exhibit 23.1
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Forms S-3 No. 333-45533, No. 333-39289, No. 333-142723, No. 333-141261, No. 333-135503, No. 333-100631, No. 333-63176, No. 333-80835, No. 333-72961, No. 333-12983, No. 333-06873, No. 33-97680 and No. 33-84974; Forms S-8 No. 333-107244, No. 333-06869, No. 333-102609, No. 333-83403, No. 333-88237 and No. 333-66257; and Forms S-4 No. 333-44576 and No. 333-35873) of Equity Residential and in the related Prospectuses of our report dated February 22, 2008 (except for Notes 12, 13 and 20, as to which the date is May 28, 2008), with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Equity Residential, included in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
Chicago, Illinois
May 28, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
Item 6.  Selected Financial Data
 
The following table sets forth selected financial and operating information on a historical basis for the Company.  The following information should be read in conjunction with all of the financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 8-K.  The historical operating and balance sheet data have been derived from the historical financial statements of the Company.  Certain amounts have also been restated in accordance with the discontinued operations provisions of SFAS No. 144.  Certain capitalized terms as used herein are defined in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
(1)
      
The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") defines funds from operations ("FFO") (April 2002 White Paper) as net income (computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP")), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.  Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis.  The April 2002 White Paper states that gain or loss on sales of property is excluded from FFO for previously depreciated operating properties only.  Once the Company commences the conversion of units to condominiums, it simultaneously discontinues depreciation of such property.   FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units is calculated on a basis consistent with net income available to Common Shares and reflects adjustments to net income for preferred distributions and premiums on redemption of preferred shares in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  The equity positions of various individuals and entities that contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units are collectively referred to as the "Minority Interests  Operating Partnership".  Subject to certain restrictions, the Minority Interests  Operating Partnership may exchange their OP Units for EQR Common Shares on a one-for-one basis.  See Item 7 for a reconciliation of net income to FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units.
 
(2)
      
The Company believes that FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company, because they are recognized measures of performance by the real estate industry and by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of depreciable property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units can help compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies.  FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units do not represent net income, net income available to Common Shares or net cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP.  Therefore, FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units should not be exclusively considered as alternatives to net income, net income available to Common Shares or net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP or as measures of liquidity.  The Company's calculation of FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units may differ from other real estate companies due to, among other items, variations in cost capitalization policies for capital expenditures and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate companies.
 
Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
Overview
 
The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition of the Company should be read in connection with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto.  Due to the Company's ability to control the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries other than entities owning interests in the Partially Owned Properties - Unconsolidated and certain other entities in which the Company has investments, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary entity has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes.  Capitalized terms used herein and not defined are as defined elsewhere in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
Forward-looking statements in this Item 7 as well as elsewhere in the Annual Report on Form 10-K are intended to be made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions made by management.  While the Company's management believes the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, such information is inherently subject to uncertainties and may involve certain risks, which could cause actual results, performance, or achievements of the Company to differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond management's control.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events.  The Company assumes no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements because of subsequent events.  Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
We intend to actively acquire and develop multifamily properties for rental operations and/or conversion into condominiums, as well as upgrade and sell existing properties as individual condominiums.  We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired or development property up to standards established for its intended market position.  Additionally, we expect that other major real estate investors with significant capital will compete with us for attractive investment opportunities or may also develop properties in markets where we focus our
                 
development efforts.  This competition may increase prices for multifamily properties or decrease the price at which we expect to sell individual properties.  We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms.  We also plan to develop more properties ourselves in addition to co-investing with our development partners for either the rental or condominium market, depending on opportunities in each sub-market.  This may increase the overall level of risk associated with our developments.  The total number of development units, cost of development and estimated completion dates are subject to uncertainties arising from changing economic conditions (such as the cost of labor and construction materials), competition and local government regulation;
 
Sources of capital to the Company or labor and materials required for maintenance, repair, capital expenditure or development are more expensive than anticipated;
                 
 
Occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by national and local economic and market conditions including, without limitation, new construction of multifamily housing, slow employment growth, availability of low interest mortgages for single-family home buyers and the potential for geopolitical instability, all of which are beyond the Company's control; and
                 
 
Additional factors as discussed in Part I of the Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those under Risk Factors.
                 
"
"
 
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.  The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  Forward-looking statements and related uncertainties are also included in Notes 5 and 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
Results of Operations
 
In conjunction with our business objectives and operating strategy, the Company has continued to invest or recycle its capital investment in apartment properties located in strategically targeted markets during the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006.  In summary, we:
 
Year Ended December 31, 2007:
 
                 
Acquired $1.7 billion of apartment properties consisting of 36 properties and 8,167 units, and $212.8 million of land parcels, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets; and
                 
Sold $1.9 billion of apartment properties consisting of 73 properties and 21,563 units, as well as 617 condominium units for $164.2 million and $50.0 million of land parcels.
 
Year Ended December 31, 2006:
 
                 
Acquired $1.8 billion of apartment properties consisting of 35 properties and 8,768 units, and $134.4 million of land parcels, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets; and
                 
Sold $2.3 billion of apartment properties consisting of 335 properties and 39,608 units, as well as 1,069 condominium units for $216.0 million and $1.6 million of land parcels.
 
On June 28, 2006, the Company announced that it agreed to sell its Lexford Housing Division for a cash purchase price of $1.086 billion.  The sale closed on October 5, 2006.  The Lexford Housing Division results are classified as discontinued operations, net of minority interests, in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.  The Company recorded a gain on sale of approximately $418.7 million on the sale of the Lexford Housing Division in the fourth quarter of 2006.  In conjunction with the Lexford disposition, the Company paid off/extinguished $196.3 million of mortgage notes payable secured by the properties and incurred approximately $9.2 million in prepayment penalties upon extinguishment.
 
NOI).  NOI represents rental income less property and maintenance expense, real estate
The Company's primary financial measure for evaluating each of its apartment communities is net operating income (
"
"
tax and insurance expense and property management expense.  The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of the operating performance of a real estate company because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Company's apartment communities.
 
Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2007 and 2006 (the 2007 Same Store Properties), which represented 115,857 units, impacted the Company's results of operations.  Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2006 and 2005 (the "2006 Same Store Properties"), which represented 128,133 units, also impacted the Company's results of operations.  Both the 2007 Same Store Properties and 2006 Same Store Properties are discussed in the following paragraphs.
"
"
 
The Company's acquisition, disposition, completed development and consolidation of previously unconsolidated property activities also impacted overall results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.  The impacts of these activities are also discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs.
 
Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2006
 
For the year ended December 31, 2007, income from continuing operations, net of minority interests, increased by approximately $41.1 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2006.  The increase in continuing operations is discussed below.
 
Revenues from the 2007 Same Store Properties increased $67.2 million primarily as a result of higher rental rates charged to residents.  Expenses from the 2007 Same Store Properties increased $12.6 million primarily due to higher payroll, building, utility costs, insurance and real estate taxes.  The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2007 Same Store Properties:
 
 
 
(1)   Results have not been updated to remove properties sold in the first quarter of 2008.
 
(2)   Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied units for the period.
 
The following table presents a reconciliation of operating income per the consolidated statements of operations included in the original Form 10-K to NOI for the 2007 Same Store Properties (table has not been updated to reflect discontinued operations treatment for properties sold in the first quarter of 2008).
For properties that the Company acquired prior to January 1, 2007 and expects to continue to own through December 31, 2008, the Company anticipates the following same store results for the full year ending December 31, 2008:
 
These 2008 assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.
 
Non-same store operating results increased $106.1 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2007 and 2006 as well as operations from completed development properties and our corporate housing business.
 
See also Note 20 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company's segment disclosures.
 
Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, increased $0.6 million primarily as a result of an increase in property management fees from unconsolidated entities along with a decrease in asset management expenses from managing fewer properties for third parties and unconsolidated entities.  As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company managed 14,472 units and 15,020 units, respectively, primarily for unconsolidated entities and our military housing venture at Fort Lewis.
 
Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company's properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies.  These expenses decreased by approximately $8.8 million or 9.1%.  This decrease is primarily attributable to lower overall payroll costs, various reserve adjustments for workers compensation and medical costs and lower training costs associated with the completion of a majority of the rollout of a new property management system, partially offset by higher legal and professional fees.
 
Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased $79.9 million primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on newly acquired properties and capital expenditures for all properties owned.
 
General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, increased approximately $0.8 million between the periods under comparison.  This increase was primarily due to an increase in restricted share expense and severance costs associated with the resignation of two of the Company's executives as well as less expense recovery related to a certain lawsuit in Florida (see
Note 21), partially offset by a decrease in profit sharing and state and franchise taxes.  The Company anticipates that general and administrative expenses will approximate $48.0 million to $50.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2008.  The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.
 
Impairment from continuing operations decreased $32.6 million primarily due to an impairment charge on goodwill of $30.0 million taken in 2006 related to the corporate housing business.  In addition, in 2006 the Company wrote-off $2.0 million of various deferred sales costs following the decision to halt the condominium conversion and sale process at five assets.
 
million primarily as a result of $14.7 million of forfeited deposits for various terminated transactions along with $3.7 million in proceeds from eBay's acquisition of Rent.com received during the year ended December 31, 2006. This was partially offset by $4.1 million received in 2007 for insurance litigation settlement proceeds, a $2.7 million increase in interest earned on 1031 exchange and earnest money deposits and a $0.7 million increase in interest earned on short-term investments.  The Company anticipates that interest and other income will approximate $5.0 million to $10.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2008.  The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.
Interest and other income from continuing operations decreased approximately $10.8
 
Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $67.1 million primarily as a result of higher overall debt levels outstanding due to the Company's share repurchase activity as well as the timing of acquisitions and dispositions, partially offset by lower overall effective interest rates.  During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $45.1 million as compared to $20.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.  This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development.  The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2007 was 5.96% as compared to 6.21% for the year ended December 31, 2006.  The Company anticipates that interest expense (including discontinued operations) will approximate $470.0 million to $490.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2008.  The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.
 
Income from investments in unconsolidated entities increased approximately $1.0 million between the periods under comparison.  This increase is primarily due to the sale of the Company's 7.075% ownership interest in Wellsford Park Highlands Corporation, an entity which owns a condominium development in Denver, Colorado and profit participation received from the sale of condominium units at a development project that was sold in 2003.
 
Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities increased $2.3 million primarily as a result of a $2.6 million gain on the sale of an unconsolidated institutional joint venture property during the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
Net gain on sales of land parcels increased $3.6 million primarily as a result of higher net gains realized in 2007 on the sales of land parcels compared to the net gains realized in 2006.
 
Discontinued operations, net of minority interests, decreased approximately $124.3 million between the periods under comparison.  This decrease is primarily due to a significant decrease in the number of properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in 2006, as well as the mix of properties sold in each year.  See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
 
Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2006 to the year ended December 31, 2005
 
For the year ended December 31, 2006, income from continuing operations, net of minority interests, decreased by approximately $54.7 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2005.  The decrease in continuing operations is discussed below.
Revenues from the 2006 Same Store Properties increased $88.7 million primarily as a result of higher rental rates charged to residents.  Expenses from the 2006 Same Store Properties increased $23.9 million primarily due to higher maintenance, payroll, utility costs and real estate taxes.  The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2006 Same Store Properties:
 
 
 
(1)   Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied units for the period.
 
Non-same store operating results increased $151.0 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2006 and 2005 as well as our corporate housing business.
 
's segment disclosures.
See also Note 20 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company
 
Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses decreased $1.5 million primarily as a result of lower income earned from managing fewer properties for third parties and unconsolidated entities.  As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company managed 15,020 units and 16,269 units, respectively, primarily for unconsolidated entities and our military housing venture at Fort Lewis.
 
Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company's properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies.  These expenses increased by approximately $9.3 million or 10.7%.  This increase is primarily attributable to higher overall payroll costs and higher overall computer and training costs specific to the Company's rollout of a new property management system.
 
Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased $119.2 million primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on newly acquired properties and capital expenditures for all properties owned.
 
General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, decreased approximately $21.9 million between the periods under comparison.  This decrease was primarily due to lower executive compensation expense due to severance costs for several executive officers incurred during the year ended December 31, 2005 and a $2.8 million reimbursement of legal expenses during the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
Impairment from continuing operations increased $33.4 million primarily due to an impairment charge on goodwill of $30.0 million related to the corporate housing business and $2.0 million related to the write-off of various deferred sales costs following the decision to halt the condominium conversion and sale process at five assets.
 
million, primarily as a result of the $57.1 million in cash received during the year ended December 31, 2005 for the
Interest and other income from continuing operations decreased by approximately $37.4
Company's ownership interest in Rent.com, which was acquired by eBay, Inc.  This was partially offset by the $3.7 million in additional proceeds for Rent.com, an increase in interest earned on tax deferred 1031 exchange proceeds from the Lexford disposition and $14.7 million of forfeited deposits for various terminated transactions received during the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $67.6 million primarily as a result of higher variable interest rates and overall debt levels outstanding.  During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $20.7 million as compared to $13.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.  This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development.  The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2006 was 6.21% as compared to 6.16% for the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
Loss from investments in unconsolidated entities increased approximately $1.1 million between the periods under comparison.  This increase is primarily the result of consolidating previously unconsolidated properties as of January 1, 2006 as the result of EITF Issue No. 04-5.
 
Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities decreased $1.0 million due to increased unconsolidated sales during the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
Net gain on sales of land parcels decreased $27.5 million due to a large gain recorded on the sale of one land parcel during the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
Discontinued operations, net of minority interests, increased approximately $265.7 million between the periods under comparison.  This increase is primarily the result of lower real estate net book values for properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005.  See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 2007
 
January 1, 2007, the Company had approximately $260.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $470.7 million available under its revolving credit facilities (net of $69.3 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and not available for borrowing).  After taking into effect the various transactions discussed in the following paragraphs and the net cash provided by operating activities, the Company's cash and cash equivalents balance at December 31, 2007 was approximately $50.8 million and the amount available on the Company's revolving credit facilities was $1.3 billion (net of $80.8 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and not available for borrowing).
As of
 
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company generated proceeds from various transactions, which included the following:
 
Disposed of 78 properties, various individual condominium units and two land parcels, receiving net proceeds of approximately $2.0 billion;
                 
Obtained $346.1 million in net proceeds from the issuance of $350.0 million of five-year 5.50% fixed rate public notes;
                 
Obtained $640.6 million in net proceeds from the issuance of $650.0 million of ten-year 5.75% fixed rate public notes and terminated five forward starting swaps designated to hedge the note issuance, receiving net proceeds of $2.4 million;
                 
Obtained a three-year (subject to two one-year extension options) $500.0 million floating rate term loan at LIBOR plus a spread (currently 42.5 basis points) dependent upon the current credit rating on the Operating Partnership's long-term unsecured debt;
                 
Obtained $827.8 million in new mortgage financing; and
                 
Issued approximately 1.2 million Common Shares and received net proceeds of $35.9 million.
                 
 
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the above proceeds were primarily utilized to:
 
Invest $480.2 million primarily in development projects;
                 
Acquire 36 properties and eight land parcels, utilizing cash of $1.7 billion;
                 
Repurchase 27.5 million Common Shares utilizing cash of $1.2 billion;
                 
Repay $548.0 million of mortgage loans;
                 
Repay $150.0 million of fixed rate public notes; and
                 
Redeem the Series D Preferred Shares at a liquidation value of $175.0 million.
                 
 
Depending on its analysis of market prices, economic conditions, and other opportunities for the investment of available capital, the Company may repurchase its Common Shares pursuant to its existing share buyback program authorized by the Board of Trustees.  On April 27, May 24 and December 3, 2007, the Board of Trustees approved an increase of $200.1 million, an additional $500.0 million and an additional $500.0 million, respectively, to the Company's authorized share repurchase program.  As of December 31, 2007 and after giving effect to the above increases, the Company had authorization to repurchase an additional $475.6 million of its shares.  The Company repurchased $1.2 billion (27,484,346 shares at an average price per share of $44.62) of its Common Shares during the year ended December 31, 2007.  See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
 
The Company's total debt summary and debt maturity schedules as of December 31, 2007, are as follows:
 
 
Net of the effect of any derivative instruments.  Weighted average rates are for the year ended December 31, 2007.
(1)
         
 
Net of the effect of any derivative instruments.  Weighted average rates are as of December 31, 2007.
(1)
        
Includes the Company's $500.0 million floating rate term loan facility, which matures on October 5, 2010, subject to two one-year extension options exercisable by the Company.
(2)
        
Includes $650.0 million of 3.85% convertible unsecured debt with a final maturity of 2026.  The notes are callable by the Company on or after August 18, 2011.  The notes are putable by the holders on August 18, 2011, August 15, 2016 and August 15, 2021.
(3)
        
Includes $139.0 million outstanding on the Company's $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, which matures on February 28, 2012.
(4)
        
 
The following table provides a summary of the Company's unsecured debt as of December 31, 2007:
 
 
 
Notes are private.  All other unsecured debt is public.
(1)
        
$150.0 million in fair value interest rate swaps converts 50% of the 4.750% Notes due June 15, 2009 to a floating interest rate.
(2)
        
Convertible notes mature on August 15, 2026.  The notes are callable by the Company on or after August 18, 2011.  The notes are putable by the holders on August 18, 2011, August 15, 2016 and August 15, 2021.
(3)
        
Represents the Company's $500.0 million term loan facility, which matures on October 5, 2010, subject to two one-year extension options exercisable by the Company.
(4)
        
Represents amount outstanding on the Company's $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility which matures on February 28, 2012.
(5)
        
 
As of February 27, 2008, an unlimited amount of debt securities remains available for issuance by the Operating Partnership under a registration statement that became automatically effective upon filing with the SEC in June 2006 (under SEC regulations enacted in 2005, the registration statement automatically expires on June 29, 2009 and does not contain a maximum issuance amount).   As of February 27, 2008, $956.5 million in equity securities remains available for issuance by the Company under a registration statement the SEC declared effective in February 1998.
 
The Company's "Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio" as of December 31, 2007 is presented in the following table.  The Company calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Common Shares and assumed conversion of all OP Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company's Common Shares on the New York
Stock Exchange; (ii) the "Common Share Equivalent" of all convertible preferred shares and preference interests/units; and (iii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preferred shares outstanding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements, including capital expenditures related to maintaining its existing properties and certain scheduled unsecured note and mortgage note repayments, generally through its working capital, net cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under its revolving credit facilities.  The Company considers its cash provided by operating activities to be adequate to meet operating requirements and payments of distributions.  The Company also expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled unsecured note and mortgage debt maturities, property acquisitions, financing of construction and development activities and capital improvements through the issuance of unsecured notes and equity securities, including additional OP Units, and proceeds
received from the disposition of certain properties as well as joint ventures.  In addition, the Company has significant unencumbered properties available to secure additional mortgage borrowings in the event that the public capital markets are unavailable or the cost of alternative sources of capital is too high.  The fair value of and cash flow from these unencumbered properties are in excess of the requirements the Company must maintain in order to comply with covenants under its unsecured notes and line of credit.  Of the $18.3 billion in investment in real estate on the Company's balance sheet at December 31, 2007, $12.0 billion or 65.5%, was unencumbered.
 
The Operating Partnership's senior debt credit ratings from Standard & Poors (S&P), Moody's and Fitch are A-, Baal and A-, respectively.  The Company's preferred equity ratings from S&P, Moody's and Fitch are BBB+, Baa2 and BBB+, respectively.
"
"
 
matures in February 2012.  This facility may, among other potential uses, be used to fund property acquisitions, costs for certain properties under development and short term liquidity requirements. As of February 25, 2008, $40.0million was outstanding under this facility.
The Operating Partnership has a long-term revolving credit facility with potential borrowings of up to $1.5 billion which
 
See Note 21 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the events which occurred subsequent to December 31, 2007.
 
Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate
 
Our policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize expenditures that improve the value of the property or extend the useful life of the component asset of the property.  We track improvements to real estate in two major categories and several subcategories:
 
Replacements.  These include:
                 
(inside the unit)
flooring such as carpets, hardwood, vinyl, linoleum or tile;
                 
appliances;
                 
mechanical equipment such as individual furnace/air units, hot water heaters, etc;
                 
furniture and fixtures such as kitchen/bath cabinets, light fixtures, ceiling fans, sinks, tubs, toilets, mirrors, countertops, etc; and
                 
blinds/shades.
                 
 
All replacements are depreciated over a five-year estimated useful life.  We expense as incurred all make-ready maintenance and turnover costs such as cleaning, interior painting of individual units and the repair of any replacement item noted above.
 
Building improvements ().  These include:
                 
outside the unit
roof replacement and major repairs;
                 
paving or major resurfacing of parking lots, curbs and sidewalks;
                 
amenities and common areas such as pools, exterior sports and playground equipment, lobbies, clubhouses, laundry rooms, alarm and security systems and offices;
                 
major building mechanical equipment systems;
                 
interior and exterior structural repair and exterior painting and siding;
                 
major landscaping and grounds improvement; and
                 
vehicles and office and maintenance equipment.
                 
 
All building improvements are depreciated over a five to ten-year estimated useful life.  We capitalize building improvements and upgrades only if the item: (i) exceeds $2,500 (selected projects must exceed $10,000); (ii) extends the useful life of the asset; and (iii) improves the value of the asset.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2007, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $252.7 million.  This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts):
 
 
 
Total units exclude 10,446 unconsolidated units and 3,731 military housing (fee managed) units.
(1)
        
Wholly Owned Properties acquired prior to January 1, 2005.
(2)
        
Wholly Owned Properties acquired during 2005, 2006 and 2007.  Per unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 25,406 units.
(3)
        
Includes properties either partially owned or sold during the period, commercial space, corporate housing, condominium conversions and $22.2 million included in building improvements spent on twenty-six specific assets related to major renovations and repositioning of these assets.
(4)
        
 
For the year ended December 31, 2006, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $255.2 million.  This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts):
 
 
 
Total units exclude 10,846 unconsolidated units and 3,555 military housing (fee managed) units.
(1)
        
Wholly Owned Properties acquired prior to January 1, 2004.
(2)
        
Wholly Owned Properties acquired during 2004, 2005 and 2006.  Per unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 27,346 units.
(3)
        
Includes properties either Partially Owned or sold during the period, commercial space, condominium conversions and $21.4 million included in building improvements spent on seventeen specific assets related to major renovations and repositioning of these assets.
(4)
        
 
million for capital expenditures for replacements and building improvements for all established properties, exclusive of condominium conversion properties, in 2008.  This includes an average of approximately $1,000 per unit for capital improvements for established properties.
The Company expects to fund approximately $104.0
 
million.  The Company expects to fund approximately $3.7 million in total additions to non-real estate property in 2008.
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company's total non-real estate capital additions, such as computer software, computer equipment, and furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements to the Company's property management offices and its corporate offices, were approximately $7.7
 
Improvements to real estate and additions to non-real estate property are generally funded from net
cash provided by operating activities.
 
Derivative Instruments
 
In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the effect of interest rate changes.  The Company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate risk on debt instruments.
 
The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors.  When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the Company has not sustained a material loss from those instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives.
 
See Note 11in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of derivative instruments at December 31, 2007.
 
Other
 
Minority Interests as of December 31, 2007 decreased by $53.4 million when compared to December 31, 2006, primarily as a result of the following:
 
Distributions declared to Minority Interests, which amounted to $35.2 million (excluding Junior Preference Unit and Preference Interest distributions);
                 
The allocation of income from operations to holders of OP Units in the amount of $65.2 million;
                 
The conversion of 230,000 Series J Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $11.5 million into Common Shares; and
                 
The conversion of 1.5 million OP Units into Common Shares valued at $32.4 million.
                 
 
Total distributions paid in January 2008 amounted to $141.6 million (excluding distributions on Partially Owned Properties), which included certain distributions declared during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2007.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations
 
The Company has co-invested in various properties that are unconsolidated and accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  Management does not believe these investments have a materially different impact upon the Company's liquidity, cash flows, capital resources, credit or market risk than its property management and ownership activities.  During 2000 and 2001, the Company entered into institutional ventures with an unaffiliated partner.  At the respective closing dates, the Company sold and/or contributed 45 properties containing 10,846 units to these ventures and retained a 25% ownership interest in the ventures.  The Company's joint venture partner contributed cash equal to 75% of the agreed-upon equity value of the properties comprising the ventures, which was then distributed to the Company.  The Company's strategy with respect to these ventures was to reduce its concentration of properties in a variety of markets.  See also Note 4 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the sale of one of these properties containing 400 units.
 
As of December 31, 2007, the Company has 13 projects totaling 4,185 units in various stages of development with estimated completion dates ranging through June 30, 2010.  The development agreements currently in place are discussed in detail in Note 18 of the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
See also Notes 2 and 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company's investments in partially owned entities.
The following table summarizes the Company's contractual obligations for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2007:
 
 
 
Amounts include aggregate principal payments only.  The Company paid $502,807, $465,388 and $397,886 for interest on debt, inclusive of derivative instruments, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
(a)
        
Minimum basic rent due for various office space the Company leases and fixed base rent due on ground leases for two properties.
(b)
       
Estimated payments to the Company's Chairman, two former CEO's and its former chief operating officer based on planned retirement dates.
(c)
        
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 
's significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  These policies were followed in preparing the consolidated financial statements at and for the year ended December 31, 2007 and are consistent with the year ended December 31, 2006.
The Company
 
The Company has identified six significant accounting policies as critical accounting policies.  These critical accounting policies are those that have the most impact on the reporting of our financial condition and those requiring significant judgments and estimates.  With respect to these critical accounting policies, management believes that the application of judgments and estimates is consistently applied and produces financial information that fairly presents the results of operations for all periods presented.  The six critical accounting policies are:
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill
 
The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets, including its investments in real estate and goodwill, for indicators of permanent impairment.  The judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions, expected holding period of each asset and legal and environmental concerns.  Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.
 
Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate
 
The Company depreciates the building component of its investment in real estate over a 30-year estimated useful life, building improvements over a 5-year to 10-year estimated useful life and both the furniture, fixtures and equipment and replacements components over a 5-year estimated useful life, all of which are judgmental determinations.
 
Cost Capitalization
 
See the section for discussion of the policy with respect to capitalization vs. expensing of fixed asset/repair and maintenance costs.  In addition, the Company capitalizes the payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on the supervision of major capital and/or renovation projects.  These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as an increase to depreciable property.
Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate
The Company follows the guidance in SFAS No. 67, , for all development projects and uses its professional judgment in determining whether such costs meet the criteria for capitalization or must be expensed as incurred.  The Company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and insurance and payroll and associated costs for those individuals directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on development activities, with capitalization ceasing no later than 90 days following issuance of the certificate of occupancy.  These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as construction in progress for each specific property.  The Company expenses as incurred all payroll costs of on-site employees working directly at our properties, except as noted above on our development properties prior to certificate of occupancy issuance and on specific major renovation at selected properties when additional incremental employees are hired.
Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments, Including Derivative Instruments
 
The valuation of financial instruments under SFAS No. 107 and SFAS No. 133 and its amendments (SFAS Nos. 137/138/149) requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments.  The Company, where possible, bases the fair values of its financial instruments, including its derivative instruments, on listed market prices and third party quotes.  Where these are not available, the Company bases its estimates on current instruments with similar terms and maturities or on other factors relevant to the financial instruments.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Rental income attributable to leases is recorded when due from residents and is recognized monthly as it is earned, which is not materially different than on a straight-line basis.  Leases entered into between a resident and a property for the rental of an apartment unit are generally year-to-year, renewable upon consent of both parties on an annual or monthly basis.  Fee and asset management revenue and interest income are recorded on an accrual basis.
 
Share-Based Compensation
 
The Company accounts for its share-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123 (R), , effective January 1, 2006, which results in compensation expense being recorded based on the fair value of the share compensation granted.
Share-Based Payment
 
The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable.  This model is only one method of valuing options and the Company's use of this model should not be interpreted as an endorsement of its accuracy.  Because the Company's share options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its share options and the actual value of the options may be significantly different.
 
Funds From Operations
 
For the year ended December 31, 2007, Funds From Operations ("FFO") available to Common Shares and OP Units increased $7.3 million, or 1.0%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006.  For the year ended December 31, 2006, FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units decreased $68.5 million, or 8.7%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
The following is a reconciliation of net income to FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units for each of the five years ended December 31, 2007:
 
 
(1)
      
The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") defines funds from operations ("FFO") (April 2002 White Paper) as net income (computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP")), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.  Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis.  The April 2002 White Paper states that gain or loss on sales of property is excluded from FFO for previously depreciated operating properties only.  Once the Company commences the conversion of units to condominiums, it simultaneously discontinues depreciation of such property. FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units is calculated on a basis consistent with net income available to Common Shares and reflects adjustments to net income for preferred distributions and premiums on redemption of preferred shares in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The equity positions of various individuals and entities that contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units are collectively referred to as the "Minority Interests - Operating Partnership". Subject to certain restrictions, the Minority Interests - Operating Partnership may exchange their OP Units for EQR Common Shares on a one-for-one basis.
 
(2)
      
The Company believes that FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company, because they are recognized measures of performance by the real estate industry and by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of depreciable property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units can help compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies.  FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units do not represent net income, net income available to Common Shares or net cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP.  Therefore, FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units should not be exclusively considered as alternatives to net income, net income available to Common Shares or net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP or as measures of liquidity.  The Company's calculation of FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units may differ from other real estate companies due to, among other items, variations in cost capitalization policies for capital expenditures and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate companies.
 
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-1.
 
All other schedules have been omitted because they are inapplicable, not required or the information is included elsewhere in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
 
 
To the Board of Trustees and Shareholders
Equity Residential
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Equity Residential (the "Company") as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007.  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index to the financial statements and schedule.  These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Equity Residential at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Equity Residential's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 22, 2008 (not provided herein) expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
 
 
 
 
1.
            
Business
 
Equity Residential ("EQR"), a Maryland real estate investment trust ("REIT") formed in March 1993, is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of high quality apartment properties in top United States growth markets.  EQR has elected to be taxed as a REIT.
 
EQR is the general partner of, and as of December 31, 2007 owned an approximate 93.6% ownership interest in, ERP Operating Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the "Operating Partnership").  The Company is structured as an umbrella partnership REIT ("UPREIT"), under which all property ownership and business operations are conducted through the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries.  References to the "Company" include EQR, the Operating Partnership and those entities owned or controlled by the Operating Partnership and/or EQR.
 
As of December 31, 2007, the Company, directly or indirectly through investments in title holding entities, owned all or a portion of 579properties in 24 states and the District of Columbia consisting of 152,821 units.  The ownership breakdown includes (table does not include various uncompleted development properties):
 
The Wholly Owned Properties are accounted for under the consolidation method of accounting.  The Company beneficially owns 100% fee simple title to 505 of the 507 Wholly Owned Properties.  The Company owns the building and improvements and leases the land underlying the improvements under long-term ground leases that expire in 2026 for one property and 2077 for another property.  These properties are consolidated and reflected as real estate assets while the ground leases are accounted for as operating leases in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 13, .
"
"
"
"
Accounting for Leases
 
The "Partially Owned Properties - Consolidated" are controlled by the Company but have partners with minority interests and are accounted for under the consolidation method of accounting.  The "Partially Owned Properties - Unconsolidated" are partially owned but not controlled by the Company and consist of investments in partnership interests and/or subordinated mortgages that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  The "Military Housing (Fee Managed)" property consists of an investment in a limited liability company that, as a result of the terms of the operating agreement, is accounted for as a management contract right with all fees recognized as fee and asset management revenue.
 
2.
            
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
Basis of Presentation
 
Due to the Company's ability as general partner to control either through ownership or by contract the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, other than entities that own controlling interests in the Partially Owned Properties - Unconsolidated and certain other entities in which the Company has investments, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary has
been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes.  Effective March 31, 2004, the consolidated financial statements also include all variable interest entities for which the Company is the primary beneficiary.
 
The Companys mergers and acquisitions were accounted for as purchases in accordance with either
'
Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 16, , or SFAS No. 141, .  The fair value of the consideration given by the Company in the mergers were used as the valuation basis for each of the combinations.  The accompanying consolidated statements of operations and cash flows include the results of the properties purchased through the mergers and through acquisitions from their respective closing dates.
"
"
Business Combinations
Business Combinations
SFAS No. 141 requires all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 be accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. 
 
Real Estate Assets and Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate
 
The Company allocates the purchase price of properties to net tangible and identified intangible assets acquired based on their fair values in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 141.  In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, the Company utilizes a number of sources, including independent appraisals that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of the respective property, our own analysis of recently acquired and existing comparable properties in our portfolio, and other market data.  The Company also considers information obtained about each property as a result of its pre-acquisition due diligence, marketing and leasing activities in estimating the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired.  The Company allocates the purchase price of acquired real estate to various components as follows:
 
     
Land  Based on actual purchase price if acquired separately or market research/comparables if acquired with an operating property.
     
Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment  Ranges between $8,000 and $13,000 per apartment unit acquired as an estimate of the fair value of the appliances & fixtures inside a unit.  The per-unit amount applied depends on the type of apartment building acquired.  Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method over an estimated useful life of five years.
     
In-Place Leases  The Company considers the value of acquired in-place leases that meet the definition outlined in SFAS No. 141, paragraph 37.  The amortization period is the average remaining term of each respective in-place acquired lease.
     
Other Intangible Assets  The Company considers whether it has acquired other intangible assets that meet the definition outlined in SFAS No. 141, paragraph 39, including any customer relationship intangibles.  The amortization period is the estimated useful life of the acquired intangible asset.
     
Building  Based on the fair value determined on an "as-if vacant" basis.  Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method over an estimated useful life of thirty years.
 
Replacements inside a unit such as appliances and carpeting are depreciated over a five-year estimated useful life.  Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed to operations as incurred and significant renovations and improvements that improve and/or extend the useful life of the asset are capitalized over their estimated useful life, generally five to ten years.  Initial direct leasing costs are expensed as incurred as such expense approximates the deferral and amortization of initial direct leasing costs over the lease terms.  Property sales or dispositions are recorded when title transfers to unrelated third parties, contingencies have been removed and sufficient cash consideration has been received by the Company.  Upon disposition, the related costs and accumulated depreciation are removed from the respective accounts.  Any gain or loss on sale is recognized in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
 
The Company classifies real estate assets as real estate held for disposition when it is certain a property will be disposed of in accordance with SFAS No. 144 (see further discussion below).
 
The Company classifies properties under development and/or expansion and properties in the lease up phase (including land) as construction in progress until construction has been completed and all certificates of
occupancy permits have been obtained.
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill
 
In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 142, .  SFAS No. 142 prohibits the amortization of goodwill and requires that goodwill be reviewed for impairment at least annually.  In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, .  SFAS Nos. 142 and 144 were effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001.  The Company adopted these standards effective January 1, 2002.  See Notes 13 and 19 for further discussion.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
 
The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets, including its investments in real estate and goodwill, for indicators of permanent impairment.  The judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions, expected holding period of each asset and legal and environmental concerns.  Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.
 
F
or long-lived assets to be held and used, the Company compares the expected future undiscounted cash flows for the long-lived asset against the carrying amount of that asset.  If the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset, the Company further analyzes each individual asset for other temporary or permanent indicators of impairment.  An impairment loss would be recorded for the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying amount of the asset if the Company deems this difference to be permanent.
 
For long-lived assets to be disposed of, an impairment loss is recognized when the estimated fair value of the asset, less the estimated cost to sell, is less than the carrying amount of the asset measured at the time that the Company has determined it will sell the asset.  Long-lived assets held for disposition and the related liabilities are separately reported at the lower of their carrying amounts or their estimated fair values, less their costs to sell, and are not depreciated after reclassification to real estate held for disposition.
 
Cost Capitalization
 
See the section for discussion of the policy with respect to capitalization vs. expensing of fixed asset/repair and maintenance costs.  In addition, the Company capitalizes the payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on the supervision of major capital and/or renovation projects.  These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as an increase to depreciable property.
Real Estate Assets and Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate
 
The Company follows the guidance in SFAS No. 67, , for all development projects and uses its professional judgment in determining whether such costs meet the criteria for capitalization or must be expensed as incurred.  The Company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and insurance and payroll and associated costs for those individuals directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on development activities, with capitalization ceasing no later than 90 days following issuance of the certificate of occupancy.  These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as construction in progress for each specific property.  The Company expenses as incurred all payroll costs of on-site employees working directly at our properties, except as noted above on our development properties prior to certificate of occupancy issuance and on specific major renovation at selected properties when additional incremental employees are hired.
Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The Company considers all demand deposits, money market accounts and investments in certificates of deposit and repurchase agreements purchased with a maturity of three months or less, at the date of purchase, to be cash equivalents.  The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents at financial institutions.  The combined account balances at one or more institutions typically exceed the Federal Depository Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insurance coverage, and, as a result, there is a concentration of credit risk related to amounts on deposit in excess of FDIC insurance coverage.  The Company believes that the risk is not significant, as the Company does not anticipate the financial institutions' non-performance.
 
Deferred Financing Costs
 
Deferred financing costs include fees and costs incurred to obtain the Company's lines of credit and long-term financings.  These costs are amortized over the terms of the related debt.  Unamortized financing costs are written-off when debt is retired before the maturity date.  The accumulated amortization of such deferred financing costs was $28.0 million and $24.5 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments, Including Derivative Instruments
 
The valuation of financial instruments under SFAS No. 107, , and SFAS No. 133 and its amendments (SFAS Nos. 137/138/149), , requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments.  The Company, where possible, bases the fair values of its financial instruments, including its derivative instruments, on listed market prices and third party quotes. Where these are not available, the Company bases its estimates on current instruments with similar terms and maturities or on other factors relevant to the financial instruments.
Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
 
In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the effect of interest rate changes.  The Company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate risk on debt instruments.
 
The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors.  When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the Company has not sustained a material loss from those instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives.
 
On January 1, 2001, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133 and its amendments (SFAS Nos. 137/138/149), which requires an entity to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and to measure those instruments at fair value.  Additionally, the fair value adjustments will affect either shareholders
'
equity or net income depending on whether the derivative instruments qualify as a hedge for accounting purposes and, if so, the nature of the hedging activity.  When the terms of an underlying transaction are modified, or when the underlying transaction is terminated or completed, all changes in the fair value of the instrument are marked-to-market with changes in value included in net income each period until the instrument matures.  Any derivative instrument used for risk management that does not meet the hedging criteria of SFAS No. 133 is marked-to-market each period.  The Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.
 
The fair value of the Company
's mortgage notes payable and unsecured notes were approximately $3.7 billion and $5.6 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007.  The fair values of the Company's financial instruments, other than mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes and derivative instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, lines of credit and other financial instruments, approximate their carrying or contract values. 
 
See Note 11 for further discussion of derivative instruments.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Rental income attributable to leases is recorded when due from residents and is recognized monthly as it is earned, which is not materially different than on a straight-line basis.  Leases entered into between a resident and a property, for the rental of an apartment unit, are generally year-to-year, renewable upon consent of both parties on an annual or monthly basis.  Fee and asset management revenue and interest income are recorded on an accrual basis.
 
Share-Based Compensation
 
The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), as required effective January 1, 2006.  SFAS No. 123(R) requires all companies to expense share-based compensation (such as share options), as well as making other revisions to SFAS No. 123.  As the Company began expensing all share-based compensation effective January 1, 2003, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) did not have a material effect on its consolidated statements of operations or financial position.
Share-Based Payment,
 
The cost related to share-based employee compensation included in the determination of net income for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is equal to that which would have been recognized if the fair value based method had been applied to all awards since the original effective date of SFAS No. 123.
 
The fair value of the option grants as computed under SFAS No. 123 would be recognized over the vesting period of the options.  The fair value for the Company's share options was estimated at the time the share options were granted using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:
 
(1)
  
Expected volatility  Estimated based on the historical volatility of EQR's share price, on a monthly basis, for a period matching the expected life of each grant.
(2)
  
Expected life  Approximates the actual weighted average life of all share options granted since the Company went public in 1993.
(3)
  
Expected dividend yield  Calculated by averaging the historical annual yield on EQR shares for a period matching the expected life of each grant, with the annual yield calculated by dividing actual dividends by the average price of EQR's shares in a given year.
(4)
  
Risk-free interest rate  The most current U.S. Treasury rate available prior to the grant date for a period matching the expected life of each grant.
 
The valuation method and assumptions are the same as those the Company used in accounting for option expense in its consolidated financial statements.  The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable.  This model is only one method of valuing options and the Company
'
s use of this model should not be interpreted as an endorsement of its accuracy.  Because the Company
'
s share options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the
fair value estimate, in management
'
s opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its share options and the actual value of the options may be significantly different.
 
Income Taxes
 
Due to the structure of the Company as a REIT and the nature of the operations of its operating properties, no provision for federal income taxes has been made at the EQR level.  Historically, the Company has generally only incurred certain state and local income, excise and franchise taxes.  The Company has elected Taxable REIT Subsidiary ("TRS") status for certain of its corporate subsidiaries, primarily those entities engaged in condominium conversion and corporate housing activities and as a result, these entities will incur both federal and state income taxes on any taxable income of such entities.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributed to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.  These assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates for which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  The effect of deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized in earnings in the period enacted.  The Company
'
s deferred tax assets are generally the result of tax affected amortization of goodwill, differing depreciable lives on capitalized assets and the timing of expense recognition for certain accrued liabilities.  As of December 31, 2007, the Company has recorded a deferred tax asset of approximately $12.5 million, which was fully offset by a valuation allowance due to the uncertainty in forecasting future TRS taxable income.
 
The Company provided for income, franchise and excise taxes allocated as follows in the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (amounts in thousands):
 
(1)
  
Primarily includes state and local income, excise and franchise taxes.  In 2006, also includes $2.9 million of federal income taxes related to a forfeited deposit on a terminated sale transaction and included in income from continuing operations.  In 2005, also includes $2.0 million of federal income taxes related to the sale of land parcels owned by a TRS and included in income from continuing operations.
(2)
  
Primarily represents federal income taxes (recovered) incurred on the gains on sales of condominium units owned by a TRS and included in discontinued operations.  Also represents state and local income, excise and franchise taxes on operating properties sold and included in discontinued operations.
(3)
  
All provision for income tax amounts are current and none are deferred.
 
The Company utilized approximately $13.9 million and $43.9 million of net operating losses (
"
NOL
"
) during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2005, respectively, and none were utilized in 2006.  The Company had no NOL carryforwards available as of January 1, 2008 or 2006.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company
'
s tax treatment of dividends and distributions were as follows:
The aggregate cost of land and depreciable property for federal income tax purposes as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 was approximately $9.7 billion and $10.2 billion, respectively.
 
Minority Interests
 
Operating Partnership:  Net income is allocated to minority interests based on their respective ownership percentage of the Operating Partnership.  The ownership percentage is calculated by dividing the number of units of limited partnership interest ("OP Units") held by the minority interests by the total OP Units held by the minority interests and EQR.  Issuance of additional common shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Common Shares"), and OP Units changes the ownership interests of both the minority interests and EQR.  Such transactions and the related proceeds are treated as capital transactions.
 
Partially Owned Properties:  The Company reflects minority interests in partially owned properties on the balance sheet for the portion of properties consolidated by the Company that are not wholly owned by the Company.  The earnings or losses from those properties attributable to the minority interests are reflected as minority interests in partially owned properties in the consolidated statements of operations.
 
U
se of Estimates
 
In preparation of the Company's financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, management makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
 
Reclassifications
 
Certain reclassifications considered necessary for a fair presentation have been made to the prior period financial statements in order to conform to the current year presentation.  These reclassifications have not changed the results of operations or shareholders
'
equity.
 
Other
 
The Company adopted FASB Interpretation (
"
FIN
"
) No. 46, as required, effective March 31, 2004.  The adoption required the consolidation of all previously unconsolidated development projects.  FIN No. 46 requires the Company to consolidate the assets, liabilities and results of operations of the activities of a variable interest entity, which for the Company includes only its development partnerships, if the Company is entitled to receive a majority of the entity
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,
'
s residual returns and/or is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from such entity
'
s activities.  The adoption of FIN No. 46 did not have any effect on net income as the aggregate results of operations of these development properties were previously included in income (loss) from investments in unconsolidated entities.
The Company adopted the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 150 and FSP No. FAS 150-3, effective December 31, 2003.  SFAS No. 150 and FSP No. FAS 150-3 require the Company to make certain disclosures regarding noncontrolling interests that are classified as equity in the financial statements of a subsidiary but would be classified as a liability in the parent
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity,
'
s financial statements under SFAS No. 150 (e.g., minority interests in consolidated limited-life subsidiaries).  The Company is presently the controlling partner in various consolidated partnerships consisting of 27 properties and 5,455 units and various uncompleted development properties having a minority interest book value of $26.2 million at December 31, 2007.  Some of these partnerships contain provisions that require the partnerships to be liquidated through the sale of its assets upon reaching a date specified in each respective partnership agreement.  The Company, as controlling partner, has an obligation to cause the property owning partnerships to distribute proceeds of liquidation to the Minority Interests in these Partially Owned Properties only to the extent that the net proceeds received by the partnerships from the sale of its assets warrant a distribution based on the partnership agreements.  As of December 31, 2007, the Company estimates the value of Minority Interest distributions would have been approximately $106.9 million (Settlement Value) had the partnerships been liquidated.  This Settlement Value is based on estimated third party consideration realized by the partnerships upon disposition of the Partially Owned Properties and is net of all other assets and liabilities, including yield maintenance on the mortgages encumbering the properties, that would have been due on December 31, 2007 had those mortgages been prepaid.  Due to, among other things, the inherent uncertainty in the sale of real estate assets, the amount of any potential distribution to the Minority Interests in the Company
"
"
'
s Partially Owned Properties is subject to change.  To the extent that the partnerships
'
underlying assets are worth less than the underlying liabilities, the Company has no obligation to remit any consideration to the Minority Interests in Partially Owned Properties.
 
The Company adopted EITF Issue No. 04-5, (Issue 04-5), effective January 1, 2006.  Issue 04-5 provides guidance in determining whether a general partner controls a limited partnership.  The Company consolidated its Lexford syndicated portfolio consisting of 20 separate partnerships (10 properties) containing 1,272 units, all of which were sold October 5, 2006.  The adoption did not have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position.  See Note 4 for further discussion of the adoption of EITF Issue No. 04-5.
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
"
"
 
In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN No. 47, an interpretation of SFAS No. 143, .  A conditional asset retirement obligation refers to a legal obligation to retire assets where the timing and/or method of settlement are conditioned on future events.  FIN No. 47 requires an entity to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred if the liability
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,
Asset Retirement Obligations
'
s fair value can be reasonably estimated.  The Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 47 for the year ended December 31, 2005.  The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company
'
s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In July 2006, the FASB ratified the consensus in FIN No. 48, .  FIN No. 48 creates a single model to address uncertainty in income tax positions and prescribes a minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements.  It also provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition and clearly scopes income taxes out of SFAS No. 5, .  The Company adopted FIN No. 48 as required effective January 1, 2007.  The adoption of FIN No. 48 did not have a material effect on the consolidated results of operations or financial position.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
Accounting for Contingencies
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, .  SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with accounting principles
Fair Value Measurements
generally accepted in the United States and expands disclosure about fair value measurements. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 157 as required effective January 1, 2008.  While still under review, adoption is not expected to have a material effect on the consolidated results of operations or financial position.
 
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, .  SFAS No. 159 provides a Fair Value Option under which a company may irrevocably elect fair value as the initial and subsequent measurement attribute for certain financial instruments.  The Fair Value Option will be available on a contract-by-contract basis with changes in fair value recognized in earnings as those changes occur.  SFAS No. 159 is effective beginning January 1, 2008, but the Company has decided not to adopt this optional standard.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities
"
"
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),  SFAS No. 141(R) will significantly change the accounting for business combinations.  Under SFAS No. 141(R), an acquiring entity will be required to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair value with limited exceptions.  SFAS No. 141(R) will change the accounting treatment for certain specific acquisition related items including: (1) expensing acquisition related costs as incurred; (2) valuing noncontrolling interests at fair value at the acquisition date; and (3) expensing restructuring costs associated with an acquired business.  SFAS No. 141(R) also includes a substantial number of new disclosure requirements.  SFAS No. 141(R) is to be applied prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009.  We expect SFAS No. 141(R) will have an impact on our accounting for future business combinations once adopted, but we are still currently assessing the impact it will have on the consolidated results of operations and financial position.
Business Combinations.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  SFAS No. 160 establishes new accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary.  It clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary (minority interest) is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the Consolidated Financial Statements and separate from the parent company's equity.  Among other requirements, this statement requires consolidated net income to be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest. It also requires disclosure, on the face of the Consolidated Statements of Operations, of the amounts of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest.  This statement is effective for the Company on January 1, 2009.  The Company is currently evaluating the impact SFAS No. 160 will have on its consolidated results of operations and financial position.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
3.
            
Shareholders' Equity and Minority Interests
 
The following tables present the changes in the Company's issued and outstanding Common Shares and OP Units for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:
 
 
In February 1998, the Company filed and the SEC declared effective a Form S-3 Registration Statement to register $1.0 billion of equity securities.  In addition, the Company carried over $272.4 million related to a prior registration statement.  As of February 6, 2008, $956.5 million in equity securities remained available for issuance under this registration statement.
 
On April 27, May 24 and December 3, 2007, the Board of Trustees approved an increase of $200.1 million, an additional $500.0 million and an additional $500.0 million, respectively, to the Company's authorized share repurchase program.  Considering the above additional authorizations and the repurchase activity for the year ended December 31, 2007, EQR has authorization to repurchase an additional $475.6 million of its shares as of December 31, 2007.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company repurchased 27,484,346 of its Common Shares at an average price of $44.62 per share for total consideration of $1.2 billion.  These shares were retired subsequent to the repurchases.  Of the total shares repurchased, 84,046 shares were repurchased from employees at an average price of $53.85 per share (the average of the then current market prices) to cover the minimum statutory tax withholding obligations related to the vesting of employees' restricted shares.  The remaining 27,400,300 shares were repurchased in the open market at an average price of $44.59 per share.  As of December 31, 2007, transactions to repurchase 125,000 of the 27,484,346 Common Shares had not yet settled.  As of December 31, 2007, the Company has reduced the number of Common Shares issued and outstanding by this amount and recorded a liability of $4.6 million included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company repurchased 1,897,912 of its Common Shares in the open market at an average price of $43.85 per share.  The Company paid approximately $83.2
million for these shares, which were retired subsequent to the repurchases.
 
The equity positions of various individuals and entities that contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units are collectively referred to as the "Minority Interests  Operating Partnership".  Subject to certain restrictions, the Minority Interests  Operating Partnership may exchange their OP Units for EQR Common Shares on a one-for-one basis.
 
Net proceeds from the Company's Common Share and Preferred Share (see definition below) offerings are contributed by the Company to the Operating Partnership.  In return for those contributions, EQR receives a number of OP Units in the Operating Partnership equal to the number of Common Shares it has issued in the equity offering (or in the case of a preferred equity offering, a number of preference units in the Operating Partnership equal in number and having the same terms as the Preferred Shares issued in the equity offering).  As a result, the net offering proceeds from Common Shares and Preferred Shares are allocated between shareholders' equity and Minority Interests  Operating Partnership to account for the change in their respective percentage ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating Partnership.
 
The Company's declaration of trust authorizes the Company to issue up to 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Preferred Shares"), with specific rights, preferences and other attributes as the Board of Trustees may determine, which may include preferences, powers and rights that are senior to the rights of holders of the Company's Common Shares.
 
The following table presents the Company's issued and outstanding Preferred Shares as of December 31, 2007 and 2006:
 
On or after the redemption date, redeemable preferred shares (Series K and N) may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation price per share, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any.
(1)
  
 
On or after the redemption date, convertible preferred shares (Series E & H) may be redeemed under certain circumstances at the option of the Company for cash (in the case of Series E) or Common Shares (in the case of Series H), in whole or in part, at various redemption prices per share based upon the contractual conversion rate, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any.
(2)
  
 
Dividends on all series of Preferred Shares are payable quarterly at various pay dates.  The dividend listed for Series N is a Preferred Share rate and the equivalent Depositary Share annual dividend is $1.62 per share.
(3)
  
 
The Series N Preferred Shares have a corresponding depositary share that consists of ten times the number of shares and one-tenth the liquidation value and dividend per share.
(4)
  
 
On May 25, 2007, the Company issued an irrevocable notice to redeem for cash on July 16, 2007 all 700,000 shares of its 8.60% Series D Preferred Shares.  The Company recorded the write-off of approximately $6.1 million in original issuance costs as a premium on redemption of Preferred Shares in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
(5)
  
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company redeemed for cash all 460,000 shares of its 9.125% Series C Preferred Shares with a liquidation value of $115.0 million.  The Company recorded the write-off of approximately $4.0 million in original issuance costs as a premium on redemption of Preferred Shares in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company redeemed for cash all 500,000 shares of its 9.125% Series B Preferred Shares with a liquidation value of $125.0 million.  The Company recorded the write-off of approximately $4.3 million in original issuance costs as a premium on redemption of Preferred Shares in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
The following table presents the issued and outstanding Preference Interests as of December 31, 2007 and 2006:
 
 
On or after the fifth anniversary of the issuance (the "Redemption Date"), the Series J Preference Interests were redeemable for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference of $50.00 per unit plus the cumulative amount of accrued and unpaid distributions, if any.
(1)
  
 
On or after the tenth anniversary of the issuance (the "Conversion Date"), the Series J Preference Interests were exchangeable at the option of the holder (in whole but not in part) on a one-for-one basis for a respective reserved series of EQR Preferred Share. In addition, on or after the Conversion Date, the Series J Preference Interests were convertible under certain circumstances at the option of the holder (in whole but not in part) to Common Shares based upon the contractual conversion rate, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any.  Prior to the Conversion Date, the Series J Preference Interests were convertible under certain circumstances at the option of the holder (in whole but not in part) to Common Shares based upon the contractual conversion rate, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any, if the issuer called the series for redemption (the "Accelerated Conversion Right").
(2)
  
 
Dividends on the Series J Preference Interests were payable quarterly on March 25, June 25, September 25, and December 25 of each year.
(3)
  
th
th
th
th
On May 24, 2007, the Company issued an irrevocable notice to redeem for cash on June 25, 2007 all 230,000 units of its 7.625% Series J Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $11.5 million.  This notice triggered the holder's Accelerated Conversion Right, which they exercised.  As a result, effective June 25, 2007, the 230,000 units were converted into 324,484 Common Shares.
(4)
  
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company redeemed for cash all of its 7.875% Series G Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $25.5 million. The Company recorded approximately $0.7 million as a premium on redemption of Preference Interests (Minority Interests) in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company issued irrevocable notices to redeem for cash all 460,000 units of its 7.625% Series H and I Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $23.0 million.  This notice triggered the respective holders' Accelerated Conversion Rights, which they exercised. As a result, the 460,000 units were converted into 679,686 Common Shares.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company redeemed or repurchased for cash all of its Series B through F Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $146.0 million.  The Company recorded approximately $4.1 million as premiums on redemption of Preference Interests (Minority Interests) in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, which included $3.8 million in original issuance costs and $0.3 million in cash redemption charges.
 
The following table presents the Operating Partnership's issued and outstanding Junior Convertible Preference Units (the Junior Preference Units) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006:
"
"
 
 
(1)
  
Dividends on the Junior Preference Units are payable quarterly at various pay dates.
 
""
(2)
  
On or after the tenth anniversary of the issuance (the
Redemption Date
), the Series B Junior Preference Units may be converted into OP Units at the option of the Operating Partnership based on the contractual conversion rate.  Prior to the Redemption Date, the holders may elect to convert the Series B Junior Preference Units to OP Units under certain circumstances based on the contractual conversion rate.  The contractual rate is based upon a ratio dependent upon the closing price of EQR's Common Shares.
 
4.
            
Real Estate
 
The following table summarizes the carrying amounts for investment in real estate (at cost) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 (amounts in thousands):
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company acquired the entire equity interest in the following from unaffiliated parties (purchase price in thousands):
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company acquired the entire equity interest in 35 properties containing 8,768 units and nine land parcels from unaffiliated parties for a total purchase price of $1.9 billion.  The Company also acquired the majority of its partners' interest in eighteen partially owned properties containing 1,643 units for $56.6 million, partially funded through the issuance of 417,039 OP Units valued at $18.6 million.
 
The Company adopted EITF Issue No. 04-5, as required for existing limited partnership arrangements, effective January 1, 2006.  The adoption required the consolidation of the Lexford syndicated portfolio consisting of 20 separate partnerships (10 properties) containing 1,272 units, all of which were sold October 5, 2006.  The Company recorded $24.6 million in investment in real estate and also:
 
Consolidated $22.5 million in mortgage debt;
     
Reduced investments in unconsolidated entities by $2.6 million;
     
Consolidated $0.9 million of other liabilities net of other assets acquired; and
     
Consolidated $1.4 million of cash.
     
 
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company disposed of the following to unaffiliated parties (sales price in thousands):
 
Company recognized a net gain on sales of discontinued operations of approximately $940.2 million, a net gain on sales of land parcels of approximately $6.4 million and a net gain on sales of
The
unconsolidated entities of $2.6 million on the above sales.  Of the 73 rental properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2007, one property consisting of 400 units was a partially owned unconsolidated property.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company disposed of the following to unaffiliated parties (sales price in thousands):
 
a net gain on sales of land parcels of approximately $2.8 million and a net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities of $0.4 million on the above sales.
The Company recognized a net gain on sales of discontinued operations of approximately $1.0 billion,
 
On June 28, 2006, the Company announced that it agreed to sell its Lexford Housing Division for a cash purchase price of $1.086 billion.  The sale closed on October 5, 2006.  The Lexford Housing Division results are classified as discontinued operations, net of minority interests, in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.  The Company recorded a gain on sale of approximately $418.7 million on the sale of the Lexford Housing Division in the fourth quarter of 2006.  In conjunction with the Lexford disposition, the Company paid off/extinguished $196.3 million of mortgage notes payable secured by the properties and incurred approximately $9.2 million in prepayment penalties upon extinguishment.  The Company also recorded approximately $4.5 million in one-time accrued retention benefits during the third quarter of 2006 related to the Lexford disposition.  These costs are included in discontinued operations, net of minority interests, in the consolidated statements of operations.  See Note 13 for additional information.
 
5.
            
Commitments to Acquire/Dispose of Real Estate
 
As of February 6, 2008, in addition to the property that was subsequently acquired as discussed in Note 21, the Company had entered into separate agreements to acquire the following (purchase price in thousands):
 
As of February 6, 2008, in addition to the properties that were subsequently disposed of as discussed in Note 21, the Company had entered into separate agreements to dispose of the following (sales price in thousands):
 
The closings of these pending transactions are subject to certain conditions and restrictions, therefore, there can be no assurance that these transactions will be consummated or that the final terms will not differ in material respects from those summarized in the preceding paragraphs.
 
6.
            
Investments in Partially Owned Entities
 
The Company has co-invested in various properties with unrelated third parties which are either consolidated or accounted for under the equity method of accounting (unconsolidated).  The following table summarizes the Company's investments in partially owned entities as of December 31, 2007 (amounts in thousands except for project and unit amounts):
 
 
(1)
  
Project and unit counts exclude all uncompleted development projects until those projects are completed.
(2)
  
All debt is non-recourse to the Company with the exception of $28.3 million in mortgage bonds on one development project.
(3)
  
Represents the Company's economic ownership interest.
 
7.
            
Deposits  Restricted
 
The following table presents the restricted deposits as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Primarily represents amounts held in escrow by the lender and released as draw requests are made on fully funded development mortgage loans.
(1)
  
 
8.
            
Mortgage Notes Payable
 
As of December 31, 2007, the Company had outstanding mortgage debt of approximately $3.6 billion.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company:
     
Repaid $548.0 million of mortgage loans;
     
Assumed $226.2 million of mortgage debt on certain properties in connection with their acquisitions;
     
Obtained $827.8 million of new mortgage loans on certain properties; and
     
Was released from $76.7 million of mortgage debt assumed by the purchaser on disposed properties.
 
The Company recorded approximately $3.3 million and $3.6 million of prepayment penalties and write-offs of unamortized deferred financing costs, respectively, as additional interest related to debt extinguishment of mortgages during the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
As of December 31, 2007, scheduled maturities for the Company's outstanding mortgage indebtedness were at various dates through September 1, 2045.  At December 31, 2007, the interest rate range on the Company's mortgage debt was 3.00% to 12.465%.  During the year ended December 31, 2007, the weighted average interest rate on the Company's mortgage debt was 5.74%.
 
The historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation, of encumbered properties was $5.3 billion and $4.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Aggregate payments of principal on mortgage notes payable for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
As of December 31, 2006, the Company had outstanding mortgage debt of approximately $3.2 billion.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company:
 
     
Repaid $493.0 million of mortgage loans;
     
Assumed/consolidated $149.5 million of mortgage debt on certain properties in connection with their acquisition and/or consolidation;
     
Obtained $267.0 million of new mortgage loans on certain properties; and
     
Was released from $117.9 million of mortgage debt assumed by the purchaser on disposed properties.
 
As of December 31, 2006, scheduled maturities for the Company's outstanding mortgage indebtedness were at various dates through September 1, 2045.  At December 31, 2006, the interest rate range on the Company's mortgage debt was 3.32% to 12.465%.  During the year ended December 31, 2006, the weighted average interest rate on the Company's mortgage debt was 5.82%.
 
The Company recorded approximately $12.2 million and $1.6 million of prepayment penalties and write-offs of unamortized deferred financing costs, respectively, as additional interest related to debt extinguishment of mortgages during the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
9.
            
Notes
 
The following tables summarize the Company's unsecured note balances and certain interest rate and maturity date information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively:
 
 
 
$150.0 million in fair value interest rate swaps converts 50% of the $300.0 million 4.750% notes due June 15, 2009 to a floating interest rate.
(1)
  
 
The Company's unsecured public debt contains certain financial and operating covenants including, among other things, maintenance of certain financial ratios.  The Company was in compliance with its unsecured public debt covenants for both the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
securities
As of February 6, 2008, an unlimited amount of debt
remains available for issuance by the Operating Partnership under a registration statement that became automatically effective upon filing with the SEC in June 2006 (under SEC regulations enacted in 2005, the registration statement automatically expires on June 29, 2009 and does not contain a maximum issuance amount).
 
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company:
 
Issued $350.0 million of five-year 5.50% fixed rate public notes, receiving net proceeds of $346.1 million;
     
Issued $650.0 million of ten-year 5.75% fixed rate public notes, receiving net proceeds of $640.6 million;
     
Obtained a three-year $500.0 million floating rate term loan (see below);
     
Repaid $150.0 million of fixed-rate public notes at maturity; and
     
Repaid $4.3 million of other unsecured notes.
     
 
On October 11, 2007, the Operating Partnership
closed on a new $500.0 million senior unsecured term loan.  The new loan matures on October 5, 2010, subject to two one-year extension options exercisable by the Operating Partnership.  The Operating Partnership has the ability to increase available borrowings by an additional $250.0 million under certain circumstances.  Advances under the loan bear interest at variable rates based upon LIBOR plus a spread dependent upon the current credit rating on the Operating Partnership
'
s long-term senior unsecured debt.  EQR has guaranteed the Operating Partnership
'
s term loan up to the maximum amount and for the full term of the loan.
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company:
 
Issued $400.0 million of ten and one-half year 5.375% fixed rate public notes, receiving net proceeds of $395.5 million;
     
Issued $650.0 million of twenty-year 3.85% fixed rate public notes that are exchangeable into EQR Common Shares, receiving net proceeds of $637.0 million (see below);
     
Repaid $60.0 million of fixed-rate public notes at maturity; and
     
Repaid $4.3 million of other unsecured notes.
     
 
The Operating Partnership recorded approximately $0.1 million of write-offs of unamortized deferred financing costs as additional interest related to partial debt extinguishment on unsecured notes during the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
On August 23, 2006, the Operating Partnership issued $650.0 million of exchangeable senior notes that mature on August 15, 2026.  The notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.85%.  The notes are exchangeable into EQR Common Shares, at the option of the holders, under specific circumstances or on or after August 15, 2025, at an initial exchange rate of 16.3934 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to an initial exchange price of $61.00 per share).  The initial exchange rate is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including upon an increase in the Company
's dividend rate.  Upon an exchange of the notes, the Operating Partnership will settle any amounts up to the principal amount of the notes in cash and the remaining exchange value, if any, will be settled, at the Operating Partnership's option, in cash, EQR Common Shares or a combination of both.
 
On or after August 18, 2011, the Operating Partnership may redeem the notes at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon.  Upon notice of redemption by the Operating Partnership, the holders may elect to exercise their exchange rights.  In addition, on August 18, 2011, August 15, 2016 and August 15, 2021 or following the occurrence of certain change in control transactions prior to August 18, 2011, note holders may require the Operating Partnership to repurchase the notes for an amount equal to the principal amount of the notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
 
Note holders may also require an exchange of the notes should the closing sale price of Common Shares exceed 130% of the exchange price for a certain period of time or should the trading price on the notes be less than 98% of the product of the closing sales price of Common Shares multiplied by the applicable exchange rate for a certain period of time.
 
Aggregate payments of principal on unsecured notes payable for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Principal payments on unsecured notes includes amortization of any discounts or premiums related to the notes.  Premiums and discounts are amortized over the life of the unsecured notes.
(1)
  
Includes the $500.0 million term loan, which matures on October 5, 2010, subject to two one-year extension options exercisable by the Operating Partnership.
(2)
  
Includes the $650.0 million of 3.85% convertible unsecured debt with a final maturity of 2026.
(3)
  
10.
         
Lines of Credit
 
The Operating Partnership has an unsecured revolving credit facility with potential borrowings of up to $1.5 billion maturing on February 28, 2012, with the ability to increase available borrowings by an additional $500.0 million by adding additional banks to the facility or obtaining the agreement of existing banks to increase their commitments.  Advances under the credit facility bear interest at variable rates based upon LIBOR at various interest periods plus a spread dependent upon the Operating Partnership's credit rating or based on bids received from the lending group.  EQR has guaranteed the Operating Partnership's credit facility up to the maximum amount and for the full term of the facility.
 
On April 1, 2005, the Operating Partnership obtained a three-year $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on May 29, 2008.  Advances under the credit facility bore interest at variable rates based upon LIBOR at various interest periods plus a spread dependent upon the Operating Partnership's credit rating or based on bids received from the lending group.  EQR guaranteed the Operating Partnership's credit facility up to the maximum amount and for the full term of the facility.  This credit facility was repaid in full and terminated on February 28, 2007.  The Company recorded $0.4 million of write-offs of unamortized deferred financing costs as additional interest in connection with this termination.
 
On May 7, 2007, the Operating Partnership obtained a one-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on May 5, 2008.  Advances under this facility bore interest at variable rates based on LIBOR at various interest periods plus a spread dependent upon the Operating Partnership's credit rating.  EQR guaranteed this credit facility up to the maximum amount and for its full term.  This credit facility was repaid in full and terminated on June 4, 2007.
 
On July 6, 2006, the Operating Partnership obtained a one-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on July 6, 2007.  Advances under this facility bore interest at variable rates based on LIBOR at various interest periods plus a spread dependent upon the Operating Partnership's credit rating.  EQR guaranteed this credit facility up to the maximum amount and for its full term.  This credit facility was repaid in full and terminated on October 13, 2006.
 
As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, $139.0 million and $460.0 million, respectively, was outstanding and $80.8 million and $69.3 million, respectively, was restricted (dedicated to support letters of credit and not available for borrowing) on the credit facilities.  During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the weighted average interest rates were 5.68% and 5.40%, respectively.
 
11.
         
Derivative Instruments
 
The following table summarizes the consolidated derivative instruments at December 31, 2007 (dollar amounts are in thousands):
 
Fair Value Hedges  Converts outstanding fixed rate debt to a floating interest rate.
(1)
  
Forward Starting Swaps  Designed to partially fix the interest rate in advance of a planned future debt issuance.
(2)
  
Development Cash Flow Hedges  Converts outstanding floating rate debt to a fixed interest rate.
(3)
  
On December 31, 2007, the net derivative instruments were reported at their fair value as other liabilities of approximately $10.6 million and other assets of $29,000.  As of December 31, 2007, there were approximately $16.5 million in deferred losses, net, included in accumulated other comprehensive loss.  Based on the estimated fair values of the net derivative instruments at December 31, 2007, the Company may recognize an estimated $3.6 million of accumulated other comprehensive loss as additional interest expense during the year ending December 31, 2008.
 
In June 2007, the Company received approximately $2.4 million to terminate five forward starting swaps in conjunction with the issuance of $650.0 million of ten-year unsecured notes.  The majority of the $2.4 million has been deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and will be recognized as a reduction of interest expense over the life of the unsecured notes.
 
In January 2006, the Company received approximately $10.7 million to terminate six forward starting swaps in conjunction with the issuance of $400.0 million of ten and one-half year unsecured notes.  The $10.7 million has been deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and will be recognized as a reduction of interest expense over the life of the unsecured notes.
 
12.
         
Earnings Per Share
 
The following tables set forth the computation of net income per share  basic and net income per share  diluted (amounts in thousands except per share amounts):
 
Convertible preferred shares/units that could be converted into 652,534, 1,163,908 and 1,772,048 weighted average Common Shares for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were outstanding but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.  In addition, the effect of the Common Shares that could ultimately be issued upon the conversion/exchange of the Operating Partnership $650.0 million exchangeable senior notes were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.
's
 
For additional disclosures regarding the employee share options and restricted shares, see Notes 2 and 14.
13.
D
         
iscontinued Operations
 
The Company has presented separately as discontinued operations in all periods the results of operations for all consolidated assets disposed of on or after January 1, 2002 (the date of adoption of SFAS No. 144), all operations related to condominium conversion properties effective upon their respective transfer into a TRS and all properties held for sale, if any.  Results are reflective of dispositions through March 31, 2008.
 
The components of discontinued operations are outlined below and include the results of operations for the respective periods that the Company owned such assets during each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 (amounts in thousands).
 
 
(1)
 
Includes expenses paid in the current period for properties sold or held for sale in prior periods related to the Company
's
period of ownership.
(2)
 
Includes only interest expense specific to secured mortgage notes payable for properties sold and/or held for sale.
 
For the properties sold during 2007 and the first quarter of 2008 (excluding condominium conversion properties), the investment in real estate, net of accumulated depreciation, and the mortgage notes payable balances at December 31, 2006 were $1.2 billion and $121.4 million, respectively.  For the properties sold during the first quarter of 2008 (excluding condominium conversion properties), the investment in real estate, net of accumulated depreciation balance at December 31, 2007 was $147.9 million.
 
The net real estate basis of the Companys condominium conversion properties owned by the TRS and included in discontinued operations (excludes the Companys six halted conversions as they are now held for use), which were included in investment in real estate, net in the consolidated balance sheets, was $87.2 million and $107.8 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
'
'
 
14.
         
Share Incentive Plans
 
On May 15, 2002, the shareholders of EQR approved the Company
's 2002 Share Incentive Plan.  The maximum aggregate number of awards that may be granted under this plan may not exceed 7.5% of the Company's outstanding Common Shares calculated on a "fully diluted" basis and determined annually on the first day of each calendar year.  As of January 1, 2008, this amount equaled 21,631,555, of which 10,392,101 shares were available for future issuance.  No awards may be granted under the 2002 Share Incentive Plan after February 20, 2012.
 
Pursuant to the 2002 Share Incentive Plan and the Fifth Amended and Restated 1993 Share Option and Share Award Plan (collectively the "Share Incentive Plans"), officers, trustees and key employees of the Company may be granted share options to acquire Common Shares ("Options") including non-qualified share options ("NQSOs"), incentive share options ("ISOs") and share appreciation rights ("SARs"), or may be granted restricted or non-restricted shares, subject to conditions and restrictions as described in the Share Incentive Plans.  Finally, certain executive officers of the Company participate in the Company's performance based restricted share plan.  Options, SARs, restricted shares and performance shares are sometimes collectively referred to herein as "Awards".
 
The Options are generally granted at the fair market value of the Company's Common Shares at the date of grant, vest in three equal installments over a three year period, are exercisable upon vesting and expire ten years from the date of grant.  The exercise price for all Options under the Share Incentive Plans is equal to the fair market value of the underlying Common Shares at the time the Option is granted.  The Fifth Amended and Restated 1993 Share Option and Share Award Plan will terminate at such time as all outstanding Awards have expired or have been exercised/vested.  The Board of Trustees may at any time amend or terminate the Share Incentive Plans, but termination will not affect Awards previously granted.  Any Options which had vested prior to such a termination would remain exercisable by the holder.
 
As to the restricted shares that have been awarded through December 31, 2007, these shares generally vest three years from the award date.  During the three-year period of restriction, the Company
's
unvested restricted shareholders receive quarterly dividend payments on their shares at the same rate and on the same date as any other Common Share holder.  In addition, the Company
'
s unvested restricted shareholders have the same voting rights as any other Common Share holder.  As a result, dividends paid on unvested restricted shares are included as a component of retained earnings (deficit) and have not been considered in reducing net income available to Common Shares in a manner similar to the Company
'
s preferred share dividends for the earnings per share calculation.  If employment is terminated prior to the lapsing of the restriction, the shares are generally canceled.
 
In addition, each year prior to 2007, selected executive officers of the Company received performance-based awards.  Effective January 1, 2007, the Company has elected to discontinue the award of new performance-based award grants.  The executive officers have the opportunity to earn in Common Shares an amount as little as 0% to as much as 225% of the target number of performance-based awards. The owners of performance-based awards have no right to vote, receive dividends or transfer the awards until Common Shares are issued in exchange for the awards.  The number of Common Shares the executive officer actually receives on the third anniversary of the grant date will depend on the excess, if any, by which the Company
'
s Average Annual Return (i.e., the average of the Common Share dividends declared during each year as a
percentage of the Common Share price as of the first business day of the first performance year and the average percentage increase in funds from operations (
"
FFO
"
) for each calendar year on a per share basis over the prior year) for the three performance years exceeds the average of the 10-year Treasury Note interest rate as of the first business day in January of each performance year (the
"
T-Note Rate
"
).
 
 
If the Company
'
s Average Annual Return exceeds the T-Note Rate by an amount which falls between any of the percentages in excess of the 2% threshold, the performance-based award will be determined by extrapolation between the two percentages.  Fifty percent of the Common Shares to which an executive officer may be entitled under the performance share grants will vest, subject to the executive
'
s continued employment with the Company, on the third anniversary of the award (which will be the date the Common Shares are issued); twenty-five percent will vest on the fourth anniversary and the remaining twenty-five percent will vest on the fifth anniversary.  The Common Shares will also fully vest upon the executive
'
s death, retirement at or after age 62, disability or upon a change in control of the Company.
 
The following tables summarize compensation information regarding the performance shares, restricted shares, share options and Employee Share Purchase Plan ("ESPP") for the three years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Compensation expense is generally recognized for Awards as follows:
 
Restricted shares and share options  Straight-line method over the vesting period of the options or shares regardless of cliff or ratable vesting distinctions.
   
Performance shares  Accelerated method with each vesting tranche valued as a separate award, with a separate vesting date, consistent with the estimated value of the award at each period end.
   
ESPP discount  Immediately upon the purchase of common shares each quarter.
   
 
The total compensation expense related to Awards not yet vested at December 31, 2007 is $24.6 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average term of 1.4 years.
 
See Note 2 for additional information regarding the Company's share-based compensation.
 
The table below summarizes the Award activity of the Share Incentive Plans and options assumed in connection with mergers (the "Merger Options") for the three years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:
 
(1)
  
The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $13.7 million and $58.0 million, respectively.  These values were calculated as the difference between the strike price of the underlying awards and the per share price at which each respective award was exercised.
(2)
  
The weighted average grant date fair value for Options granted during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $6.26 per share, $4.22 per share and $2.64 per share, respectively.
 
The following table summarizes information regarding options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2007:
 
(1)
  
The aggregate intrinsic value of both options outstanding and options vested and expected to vest as of December 31, 2007 is $62.2 million.
(2)
  
The aggregate intrinsic value and weighted average remaining contractual life in years of options exercisable as of December 31, 2007 is $59.9 million and 5.0 years, respectively.
 
Note:  The aggregate intrinsic values in Notes (1) and (2) above were both calculated as the excess between the Company's closing share price of $36.47 per share on December 31, 2007 and the strike price of the underlying awards.
 
As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, 6,567,868 Options (with a weighted average exercise price of $26.87) and 6,940,065 Options (with a weighted average exercise price of $25.65) were exercisable, respectively.
 
15.
         
Employee Plans
 
s
The Company established an Employee Share Purchase Plan to provide each employee and trustee the ability to annually acquire up to $100,000 of Common Shares of the Company.  In 2003, the Company
'
shareholders approved an increase in the aggregate number of Common Shares available under the ESPP to 7,000,000 (from 2,000,000).  The Company has 4,081,688 Common Shares available for purchase under the ESPP at December 31, 2007.  The Common Shares may be purchased quarterly at a price equal to 85% of the lesser of: (a) the closing price for a share on the last day of such quarter; and (b) the greater of: (i) the closing price for a share on the first day of such quarter, and (ii) the average closing price for a share for all the business days in the quarter.  The following table summarizes information regarding the Common Shares issued under the ESPP:
s
The Company established a defined contribution plan (the "401(k) Plan") to provide retirement benefits for employees that meet minimum employment criteria.  The Company matches dollar for dollar up to the first 3% of eligible compensation that a participant contributes to the 401(k) Plan.  Participants are vested in the Company'
contributions over five years.  The Company recognized an expense in the amount of $4.2 million, $2.3 million and $3.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
s
The Company may also elect to make an annual discretionary profit-sharing contribution as a percentage of each individual employee
'
eligible compensation under the 401(k) Plan.  The Company recognized an expense of approximately $1.5 million, $3.3 million and $2.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
ss
The Company established a supplemental executive retirement plan (the
"SERP") to provide certain officers and trustees an opportunity to defer a portion of their eligible compensation in order to save for retirement.  The SERP is restricted to investments in Company Common Shares, certain marketable securities that have been specifically approved and cash equivalents.  The deferred compensation liability represented in the SERP and the securities issued to fund such deferred compensation liability are consolidated by the Company and carried on the Company'
balance sheet, and the Company
'
Common Shares held in the SERP are accounted for as a reduction to paid in capital.
 
16.
         
Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan
 
On November 3, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration Statement to register 14,000,000 Common Shares pursuant to a Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan (the "DRIP Plan").  The registration statement was declared effective on November 25, 1997.  The Company has 11,571,277 Common Shares available for issuance under the DRIP Plan at December 31, 2007.
 
s
The DRIP Plan provides holders of record and beneficial owners of Common Shares and Preferred Shares with a simple and convenient method of investing cash distributions in additional Common Shares (which is referred to herein as the "Dividend Reinvestment  DRIP Plan").  Common Shares may also be purchased on a monthly basis with optional cash payments made by participants in the DRIP Plan and interested new investors, not currently shareholders of the Company, at the market price of the Common Shares less a discount ranging between 0% and 5%, as determined in accordance with the DRIP Plan (which is referred to herein as the "Share Purchase  DRIP Plan").  Common Shares purchased under the DRIP Plan may, at the option of the Company, be directly issued by the Company or purchased by the Company'
transfer agent in the open market using participants' funds.
 
17.
         
Transactions with Related Parties
 
The Company provided asset and property management services to certain related entities for properties not owned by the Company.  Fees received for providing such services were approximately $0.3 million, $0.3 million and $0.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
The Company leases its corporate headquarters from an entity controlled by EQR's Chairman of the Board of Trustees.  The lease terminates on July 31, 2011.  Amounts incurred for such office space for the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were approximately $2.9 million, $2.8 million and $2.1 million.  The Company believes these amounts equal market rates for such space.
 
The Company had the following additional non-continuing related party transaction:
 
The Company reimbursed its former Chief Operating Officer for the actual operating costs (excluding acquisition costs) of operating his personal aircraft for himself and other employees on Company business in 2005.  For the year ended December 31, 2005, the amount incurred was approximately $0.4 million.
     
 
18.
         
Commitments and Contingencies
 
The Company, as an owner of real estate, is subject to various Federal, state and local environmental laws.  Compliance by the Company with existing laws has not had a material adverse effect on the Company.  However, the Company cannot predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations on its current properties or on properties that it may acquire in the future.
 
s
The Company is party to a housing discrimination lawsuit brought by a non-profit civil rights organization in April 2006 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland.  The suit alleges that the Company designed and built approximately 300 of its properties in violation of the accessibility requirements of the Fair Housing Act and Americans With Disabilities Act.  The suit seeks actual and punitive damages, injunctive relief (including modification of non-compliant properties), costs and attorneys' fees.  The Company believes it has a number of viable defenses, including that a majority of the named properties were completed before the operative dates of the statutes in question and/or were not designed or built by the Company.  Accordingly, the Company is defending the suit vigorously.  Due to the pendency of the Company'
defenses and the uncertainty of many other critical factual and legal issues, it is not possible to determine or predict the outcome of the suit and as a result, no amounts have been accrued at December 31, 2007.  While no assurances can be given, the Company does not believe that the suit, if adversely determined, would have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
The Company does not believe there is any other litigation pending or threatened against it that, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably may be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company established a reserve and recorded a corresponding expense, net of insurance receivables, for estimated uninsured property damage at certain of its properties caused by various hurricanes in each respective year.  During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company received $11.2 million in insurance proceeds and recorded an additional $7.9 million of receivables in anticipation of proceeds expected.  As of December 31, 2007, a receivable of $1.8 million and a liability of $1.3 million are included in other assets and other liabilities, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets.
 
As of December 31, 2007, the Company has thirteen projects totaling 4,185 units in various stages of development with estimated completion dates ranging through June 30, 2010.  Some of the projects are developed solely by the Company, while others are co-developed with various third party development partners.  The development venture agreements with partners are primarily deal-specific, with differing terms regarding profit-sharing, equity contributions, returns on investment, buy-sell agreements and other customary provisions.  The partner is most often the "general" or "managing" partner of the development venture.  The typical buy-sell arrangements contain appraisal rights and provisions that provide the right, but not the obligation, for the Company to acquire the partner's interest in the project at fair market value upon the expiration of a negotiated time period (typically two to five years after substantial completion of the project).  However, the buy-sell provisions with one partner covering three projects does require the Company to purchase the partner's interest in the projects at fair market value five years following the receipt of the final certificate of occupancy on the last
developed property.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, total operating lease payments incurred for office space, including a portion of real estate taxes, insurance, repairs and utilities, and including rent due under two ground leases, aggregated $7.6 million, $6.9 million and $6.3 million, respectively.
 
The Company has entered into a retirement benefits agreement with its Chairman of the Board of Trustees and deferred compensation agreements with its former chief operating officer and two former chief executive officers.  During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company recognized compensation expense of $0.7 million, $1.1 million and $2.2 million, respectively, related to these agreements.
 
The following table summarizes the Company's contractual obligations for minimum rent payments under operating leases and deferred compensation for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2007:
 
Minimum basic rent due for various office space the Company leases and fixed base rent due on ground leases for two properties.
(a)
  
Estimated payments to the Company's Chairman, two former CEO's and its former chief operating officer based on planned retirement dates.
(b)
  
 
19.
         
Impairment
 
The Company incurred impairment losses of $1.1 million, $2.4 million and $0.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to the write-off of various pursuit and out-of-pocket costs for terminated acquisition, disposition and development transactions.  The Company also took impairment charges of $0.6 and $2.0 million associated with the write-off of various deferred sales costs following the decision to halt the condominium conversion and sale process at assets for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded approximately $30.0 million of asset impairment charges related to its write-down of the entire carrying value of the goodwill on its corporate housing business.  Following the guidance in SFAS No. 142, this charge was the result of the continued poor operating performance of the corporate housing business and managements expectations for future performance.
'
 
20.
         
Reportable Segments
 
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by senior management.  Senior management decides how resources are allocated and assesses performance on a monthly basis.
 
The Companys primary business is owning, managing, and operating multifamily residential properties, which includes the generation of rental and other related income through the leasing of apartment units to residents.  Senior management evaluates the performance of each of our apartment communities individually and geographically, and both on a same store and non-same store basis; however, each of our apartment communities generally has similar economic characteristics, residents, products and services.  The Companys operating segments have been aggregated by geography in a manner identical to that which is
'
'
provided to its chief operating decision maker.
 
The Companys fee and asset management, development (including FIN No. 46 partially owned properties), condominium conversion and corporate housing (Equity Corporate Housing or ECH) activities are immaterial and do not individually meet the threshold requirements of a reportable segment as provided for in SFAS No. 131 and as such, have been aggregated in the tables presented below.
'
"
"
 
All revenues are from external customers and there is no customer who contributed 10% or more of the Companys total revenues during the three years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, or 2005.
'
 
The primary financial measure for the Companys rental real estate properties is net operating income (NOI), which represents rental income less:  1) property and maintenance expense; 2) real estate taxes and insurance expense; and 3) property management expense (all as reflected in the accompanying statements of operations).  The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of the operating performance of a real estate company because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Companys apartment communities.  Current year NOI is compared to prior year NOI and current year budgeted NOI as a measure of financial performance.  The following table presents NOI for each segment from our rental real estate specific to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, as well as total assets for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively (amounts in thousands):
'
"
"
'
 
 
(1)
  
Same store includes properties owned for all of both 2007 and 2006 which represented 115,857 units.
(2)
  
Non-same store includes properties acquired after January 1, 2006.
(3)
  
Other includes ECH, development, condominium conversion overhead of $4.8 million and other corporate operations.  Also reflects a $16.6 million elimination of rental income recorded in Northeast, South and West operating segments related to ECH.
(4)
  
Properties sold  March YTD 2008 reflects discontinued operations for properties sold during the first quarter of 2008.
 
 
(1)
  
Same store includes properties owned for all of both 2007 and 2006 which represented 115,857 units.
(2)
  
Non-same store includes properties acquired after January 1, 2006.
(3)
  
Other includes ECH, development, condominium conversion overhead of $5.9 million and other corporate operations.  Also reflects a $15.8 million elimination of rental income recorded in Northeast, South and West operating segments related to ECH.
(4)
  
Properties sold  March YTD 2008 reflects discontinued operations for properties sold during the first quarter of 2008.
 
 
(1)
  
Same store includes properties owned for all of both 2006 and 2005 which represented 128,133 units.
(2)
  
Non-same store includes properties acquired after January 1, 2005.
(3)
  
Other includes ECH, development, condominium conversion overhead of $3.1 million and other corporate operations.  Also reflects a $13.4 million elimination of rental income recorded in Northeast, South and West operating segments related to ECH and $11.1 million of hurricane insurance losses.
(4)
  
Properties sold in 2007 reflects discontinued operations for properties sold during 2007.
(5)
  
Properties sold  March YTD 2008 reflects discontinued operations for properties sold during the first quarter of 2008.
 
Note:  Markets included in the above geographic segments are as follows:
 
Northeast  New England (excluding Boston), Boston, New York Metro, DC Northern Virginia, Suburban Maryland, Chicago, Milwaukee and Minneapolis/St. Paul.
(a)
          
South  Charlotte, Raleigh/Durham, Atlanta, Jacksonville, Orlando, Tampa/Ft. Myers, South Florida, Nashville, Tulsa, Austin, Houston, Dallas/Ft. Worth, Albuquerque and Phoenix.
(b)
          
West  Seattle/Tacoma, Portland, Central Valley, San Francisco Bay Area, Inland Empire, Los Angeles, Orange County, San Diego and Denver.
(c)
          
 
The following table presents a reconciliation of NOI from our rental real estate specific to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively:
 
21.
         
Subsequent Events/Other
 
Subsequent Events
 
Subsequent to December 31, 2007 and through February 6, 2008, the Company:
 
Acquired the remaining equity interest it did not previously own of a 144 unit partially-owned property for $5.9 million;
     
Sold seven apartment properties consisting of 1,420 units for $107.3 million (excluding condominium units);
     
Terminated three forward-starting swaps paying $13.2 million in conjunction with locking the interest rate on a $500.0 million secured mortgage loan pool scheduled to close in March 2008; and
     
Repaid $17.9 million of mortgage loans.
     
 
Subsequent to December 31, 2007 and through February 22, 2008, the Company repurchased 170,956 Common Shares at an average price of $36.78 per share for total consideration of $6.3 million, leaving $469.3 million remaining available for share repurchases.
 
Other
 
The Company recorded a reduction to general and administrative expense of approximately $1.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2007 due to the successful resolution of a certain lawsuit in Florida, resulting in the reversal of the majority of a previously established litigation reserve.  The Company had previously recorded a reduction to general and administrative expense of approximately $2.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 due to the recovery of insurance proceeds related to the same lawsuit.
The Company received $1.2 million related to its 7.075% ownership interest in Wellsford Park Highlands Corporation ("WPHC"), an entity which owns a condominium development in Denver, Colorado.  The Company recorded a gain of approximately $0.7 million as income from investments in unconsolidated entities and has no further ownership interest in WPHC.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company entered into resignation/release agreements with its former Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") and one other former executive vice president.  The Company recorded approximately $3.4 million of additional general and administrative expense during the year ended December 31, 2007 related to cash severance and accelerated vesting of share options and restricted/performance shares.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company recognized $0.3 million and $14.7 million, respectively, of forfeited deposits for various terminated transactions, included in interest and other income.  In addition, during 2007 the Company received $4.1 million for the settlement of insurance litigation claims from 2000 through 2002.  This amount was recorded as interest and other income.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company received proceeds from technology and other investments of $4.0 million and $82.1 million, respectively, from the following:
 
$25.0 million in full redemption of 1,000,000 shares of Wellsford 8.25% Convertible Trust Preferred Securities during 2005;
     
$3.7 million and $57.1 million for its ownership interest in Rent.com in connection with the acquisition of Rent.com by eBay, Inc. in 2006 and 2005, respectively.  Both amounts were recorded as interest and other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations; and
     
$0.3 million as a partial distribution for its ownership interest in Constellation Real Technologies, LLC in 2006.  The amount was recorded as interest and other income.
     
 
During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company established a reserve and recorded a corresponding expense related to potential liabilities associated with certain asset sales.  During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company paid approximately $0.7 million in settlements and recorded $1.9 million in additional reserves.  The balance of the reserves as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 was approximately $7.4 million and $6.2 million, respectively.  While no assurances can be given, the Company does not believe that the potential issue, if adversely determined or settled, will have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
22.
         
Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
 
The following unaudited quarterly data has been prepared on the basis of a December 31 year-end.  All amounts have also been restated in accordance with the discontinued operations provisions of SFAS No 144 and reflect dispositions and/or properties held for sale through March 31, 2008.  Amounts are in thousands, except for per share amounts.
(1)
  
The amounts presented for 2007 are not equal to the same amounts previously reported in the Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2008 as a result of changes in discontinued operations due to additional property sales which occurred throughout the first quarter of 2008.  Below is a reconciliation to the amounts previously reported in the Form 10-K:
 
(2)
  
The amounts presented for 2006 are not equal to the same amounts previously reported in the Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2008 as a result of changes in discontinued operations due to additional property sales which occurred throughout the first quarter of 2008.  Below is a reconciliation to the amounts previously reported in the Form 10-K:
 
 
* The Company did not have any extraordinary items or cumulative effect of change in accounting principle during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.  Therefore, income before extraordinary items and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle is not shown as it was equal to the net income amounts disclosed above.
 
 
 
 
(1) See attached Encumbrances Reconciliation.
 
 
* Collateral also includes letters of credit supported by the Company's revolving credit facility.
 
The changes in total real estate for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:
 
 
The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) See attached Encumberances Reconciliation
 
 
 
 


