FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20090120164513.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Desiree G. Rogers has informed the Board of Trustees of Equity Residential (the "Company") that she is resigning from the Company's Board effective January 19, 2009, as a result of her appointment as Special Assistant to the President and as White House Social Secretary by President Barack Obama.
 
On January 20, 2009, Equity Residential issued a press release announcing Ms. Rogers' resignation from the Board of Trustees. A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01. The information contained or incorporated in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission nor incorporated by reference in any registration statement filed by Equity Residential under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
(d) Exhibit
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Equity Residential (NYSE: EQR) today announced that Desire G. Rogers has resigned from the company's Board of Trustees effective January 19, 2009. Ms. Rogers, who served as an Equity Residential Trustee since October 2003, has been appointed Special Assistant to the President and White House Social Secretary by President Obama.
Chicago, IL  January 20, 2009
"Desire has been a highly valued board member and we thank her for her many contributions to Equity Residential," said David J. Neithercut, Equity Residential's President and CEO. "We wish her the very best in her new role in public service."
Equity Residential is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of high quality apartment properties in top U.S. growth markets. Equity Residential owns or has investments in 552 properties totaling 148,115 units in 23 states and the District of Columbia. For more information on Equity Residential, please visit our website at www.equityresidential.com.


