FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20091210164813.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity Residential today announced that its operating partnership, ERP Operating Limited Partnership, has completed its cash tender offers (the "Non-Exchangeable Notes Offer") for any and all of its 6.95% Notes due March 2, 2011, 6.625% Notes due March 15, 2012 and 5.50% Notes due October 1, 2012 (the "Non-Exchangeable Notes"). As a result of the cash tender premium paid by the company in excess of par as well as the non-cash write-off of certain unamortized costs and premiums/discounts related to the Non-Exchangeable Notes, the company will record a charge to earnings and funds from operations (FFO) of approximately $23.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2009.
A copy of Equity Residential's press release announcing the completion of the Non-Exchangeable Notes Offer is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation to buy any of the Non-Exchangeable Notes nor is it a solicitation for acceptance of the Non-Exchangeable Notes Offer. ERP Operating Limited Partnership is making the Non-Exchangeable Notes Offer only by, and pursuant to the terms of, the Offer to Purchase and the related Letter of Transmittal.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NEWS RELEASE -
 
DECEMBER 10, 2009
 
- Equity Residential (NYSE: EQR) today announced that its operating partnership, ERP Operating Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership"), accepted for purchase the principal amount of its outstanding notes set forth below, which were validly tendered pursuant to its previously announced cash tender offers for each such series of notes (the "Non-Exchangeable Notes Offer"). The Non-Exchangeable Notes Offer expired at 5:00 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, on December 9, 2009. Payment for notes purchased pursuant to the Non-Exchangeable Notes Offer was made on December 10, 2009. The aggregate principal amount of Non-Exchangeable Notes accepted for purchase was approximately $295.7 million. The aggregate consideration for the Non-Exchangeable Notes accepted for purchase, including accrued and unpaid interest of approximately $5.5 million, was approximately $323.2 million. As a result of the cash tender premium paid by the company in excess of par as well as the non-cash write-off of certain unamortized costs and premiums/discounts related to the Non-Exchangeable Notes, the company will record a charge to earnings and funds from operations (FFO) of approximately $23.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Chicago, IL  December 10, 2009
 
 
The Operating Partnership's concurrent offer to purchase any and all of its 3.85% Exchangeable Senior Notes due August 15, 2026 (the "Exchangeable Notes Offer") is scheduled to expire at 12:00 midnight, Eastern Standard Time, on December 30, 2009. We refer to the Exchangeable Notes Offer and the Non-Exchangeable Notes Offer as the "Offers."
The complete terms and conditions of the Offers are set forth in the Offer to Purchase dated December 2, 2009 and the related Letter of Transmittal. This press release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation to buy any of these notes nor is it a solicitation for acceptance of the Offers.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. is the Dealer Manager for the Offers. Global Bondholder Services Corporation is the Information Agent.
Equity Residential is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of high quality apartment properties in top U.S. growth markets. Equity Residential owns or has investments in 496 properties located in 23 states and the District of Columbia, consisting of 137,489 apartment units. For more information on Equity Residential, please visit our website at .
www.equityresidential.com
Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to historical information, this press release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions made by management. While Equity Residential's management believes the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, such information is inherently subject to uncertainties and may involve certain risks, including, without limitation, changes in general market conditions, including the rate of job growth and cost of labor and construction material, the level of new multifamily construction and development, competition and local government regulation. Other risks and uncertainties are described under the heading "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and available on our website, www.equityresidential.com. Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond management's control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events. Equity Residential assumes no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.


