FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20090318162614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2 below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14-d(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Amendment and Restatement of Agreement of Limited Partnership
On March 12, 2009, Equity Residential (the "Company"), in its capacity as the sole general partner of ERP Operating Limited Partnership (the "Partnership"), after having received the required approval of the limited partners of the Partnership ("Limited Partner Approval") pursuant to its Consent Solicitation dated February 6, 2009 (as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission), entered into the Sixth Amended and Restated ERP Operating Limited Partnership Agreement of Limited Partnership (the "Restated Partnership Agreement"). The Restated Partnership Agreement was amended primarily to add provisions authorizing the Partnership to issue, under the Company's long-term incentive compensation plan, a class of partnership interests, known as long-term incentive plan units or LTIP Units, to officers of the Company as an alternative to the Company's restricted shares. LTIP Units are a class of units that under certain conditions, including vesting, are convertible by the holder into an equal number of operating partnership units ("OP Units") of the Partnership, which are redeemable by the holder for Company common shares on a one-for-one basis or the cash value of such shares, at the Company's option.
In December 2008, the Company's 2002 Share Incentive Plan was amended to specifically allow for the issuance of LTIP Units. The Company was advised by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) that no shareholder approval of the share incentive plan amendment was required under the rules of the NYSE. In connection with the February 2009 grant of long-term incentive compensation for services provided during 2008, the Company offered its officers a choice, on a one-for-one basis, between restricted shares and LTIP Units, conditioned upon the receipt of the Limited Partner Approval.
The principal amendments made pursuant to the Restated Partnership Agreement include:
 
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the Restated Partnership Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, and incorporated herein by reference, and to the February 6, 2009 Consent Solicitation.
 
ITEM 5.02        DEPARTUREOF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
Change in Control Agreement
On March 13, 2009, the Company and Mark J. Parrell, the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer entered into a Change in Control Agreement in substantially the same form as the Change in Control Agreements with the Company's other Executive Vice Presidents, which entitles Mr. Parrell to certain benefits if, within three years after a change in control of the Company, his employment is terminated without cause or he resigns for good reason. Such benefits would include a prorated bonus and long-term compensation award through the date of termination, continued health and life insurance benefits for 27 months, a gross-up for any applicable excise taxes and a lump sum cash severance payment equal to 2.25 times the sum of his annual base salary and the average of his annual cash bonus for the prior three years.
A copy of the Change in Control Agreement between the Company and Mr. Parrell is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
(this "Agreement") has been executed and delivered as of the 12th day of March, 2009, by Equity Residential (the "General Partner" or the "Company"), a Maryland real estate investment trust, pursuant to Section 16 hereof, for itself and on behalf of those partnerships identified on Schedule A to this Agreement (each a "Zell Partner" and collectively, the "Zell Partners"); those entities identified on Schedule B to this Agreement (each a "Starwood Partner" and collectively, the "Starwood Partners"); and to the extent not included in Schedule A or B those additional persons and entities holding Partnership Interests (as hereinafter defined) in the Partnership from time to time as recorded in the books and records maintained by the General Partner (the "Additional Partners") (the General Partner, the Zell Partners, the Starwood Partners and the Additional Partners, being each a "Partner" and collectively, the "Partners").
THIS SIXTH AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
A. The Partners are parties to that certain Fifth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of ERP Operating Limited Partnership dated as of August 1, 1998 (the "Prior Partnership Agreement") and, in accordance therewith, have been doing business as an Illinois limited partnership (the "Partnership") under the name "ERP Operating Limited Partnership."
B. The requisite majorities of the Partners have approved amendments to the Prior Partnership Agreement in accordance with its terms, including, without limitation, provisions for the Partnership's issuance of long-term incentive interests in the Partnership as more fully provided for herein.
B. In order to implement the amendments so approved by the Partners, the Partners have determined it to be in the best interest of the Partnership to amend and restate the Prior Partnership Agreement and are desirous of continuing the Partnership in accordance with the Illinois Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act and this Agreement.
THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained in this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the General Partner, for itself and on behalf of the Partners, agrees as follows:
1. .
Partnership
1.1 . The General Partner and the Limited Partners do hereby continue the Partnership as an Illinois limited partnership according to all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and otherwise in accordance with the Act. The General Partner is the sole general partner and the Limited Partners are the sole limited partners of the Partnership. All Partnership profits, losses, and distributive shares of tax items accruing prior to the date of this Agreement shall be allocated in accordance with, and the respective rights and obligations of the Partners with respect to the period prior to the date of this Agreement shall be governed by, the Prior Partnership Agreement. No Partner has any interest in any Partnership property but the interests of all Partners in the Partnership are, for all purposes, personal property.
Continuation of Partnership; Partnership Interests
1.2 . The Partnership name shall be "ERP Operating Limited Partnership", but the General Partner may from time to time change the name of the Partnership or may adopt such trade or fictitious names as it may determine.
Name
2. .
Definitions
2.1 As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth respectively after each:
"" shall mean the Illinois Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, as amended from time to time, and any successor statute.
Act
"" shall mean, at any time, the then balance in the Capital Account of a Partner, after giving effect to the following adjustments:
Adjusted Capital Account Deficit
(i) credit to such Capital Account any amounts that such Partner is obligated to restore pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise or is deemed to be obligated to restore as described in the penultimate sentences of Regulations Section 1.704-2(g)(1) and Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(5), or any successor provisions; and
(ii) debit to such Capital Account the items described in Regulations Sections 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5) and (6).
"" with respect to any specified Person shall mean any Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with the specified Person.
Affiliate
"" shall mean with respect to the Obligated Partners, as a group, the aggregate balances of the Restoration Amounts, if any, of the Obligated Partners, as determined on the date in question.
Aggregate Restoration Amount
"" shall mean this Sixth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership, as it may be amended from time to time.
Agreement
"" shall mean a Person to whom one or more OP Units have been transferred in a manner permitted under this Agreement, but who has not become a substituted Limited Partner, and who has the rights set forth in Section 12(B)(ii).
Assignee
"" of a Partner shall mean (a) the filing by a Partner of a voluntary petition seeking liquidation, reorganization, arrangement or readjustment, in any form, of its debts under Title 11 of the United States Code (or corresponding provisions of future laws) or any other Federal or state insolvency law, or a Partner's filing an answer consenting to or acquiescing in any such petition, (b) the making by a Partner of any assignment for the benefit of its creditors or the admission by a Partner in writing of its inability to pay its debts as they mature, or (c) the expiration of sixty (60) days after the filing of an involuntary petition under Title 11 of the United States Code (or corresponding provisions of future laws), seeking an application for the appointment of a receiver for the assets of a Partner, or an involuntary petition seeking liquidation, reorganization, arrangement or readjustment of its debts under any other Federal or state insolvency law, provided that the same shall not have been vacated, set aside or stayed within such 60-day period.
Bankruptcy
"" shall mean the capital account maintained by the Partnership for each Partner as described in Section 3.4 below.
Capital Account
 
"" shall have the meaning provided in Section 8.2 below.
Capital Cash Flow
"" shall mean, when used in respect of a Partner, the initial capital contribution of such Partner and any other amounts of money or the fair market value of other property contributed by such Partner to the capital of the Partnership pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, including the Capital Contribution made by any predecessor holder of the Partnership Interest of such Partner.
Capital Contribution
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as the same may be amended from time to time, and any successor statute.
Code
"" shall mean a common share of beneficial interest (or other comparable common equity interest) of the Company.
Common Share
"" means Equity Residential, a Maryland real estate investment trust and the General Partner of the Partnership, and any successor thereto (including Equity Residential as constituted as of the date of this Agreement).
Company
"" shall have the meaning provided in clause (vi) of Section 3.2(B) below.
Contributing Partner
"" shall mean for any fiscal year or portion thereof, an amount equal to the depreciation, amortization or other cost recovery deduction allowable with respect to an asset for such period for Federal income tax purposes, except that if the Gross Asset Value of an asset differs from its adjusted basis for Federal income tax purposes at the beginning of such period, Depreciation shall be an amount that bears the same relationship to such beginning Gross Asset Value as the depreciation, amortization or cost recovery deduction in such period for Federal income tax purposes bears to the beginning adjusted tax basis; provided, however, that if the adjusted basis for Federal income tax purposes of an asset at the beginning of such period is zero, Depreciation shall be determined with reference to such beginning Gross Asset Value using any reasonable method selected by the General Partner.
Depreciation
"" shall have the meaning provided in Section 3.2(C) below.
Determination Date
"" shall have the meaning provided in Section 11.6 below.
FPAA
"" or "" means, upon the actual or deemed sale of all or substantially all Partnership assets, the sum of: (a) changes to the Gross Asset Value of Partnership assets as described under paragraph (ii) of the definition of Gross Asset Value and (b) gain or loss resulting from any disposition of Partnership assets with respect to which gain or loss is recognized for Federal income tax purposes, computed by reference to the Gross Asset Value of the property disposed.
Gains
Losses
"" means Equity Residential, a Maryland real estate investment trust sometimes also referred to in this Agreement as the "Company," and any successor thereto (including Equity Residential as constituted as of the date of this Agreement).
General Partner
"" means, with respect to any Partnership asset, the asset's adjusted basis for Federal income tax purposes, except as follows:
Gross Asset Value
(i) The initial Gross Asset Value of any asset contributed by a Partner to the Partnership shall be the gross fair market value of such asset, as determined by the General Partner;
 
(ii) The Gross Asset Value of all Partnership assets shall be adjusted to equal their respective gross fair market values, as determined by the General Partner, as of the following times: (a) the acquisition of an additional interest in the Partnership by any new or existing Partner in exchange for more than a de minimis Capital Contribution; (b) the distribution by the Partnership to a Partner of more than a de minimis amount of Partnership property as consideration for an interest in the Partnership; (c) the issuance of LTIP Units in exchange for services provided by an employee or non-employee trustee of the Partnership or an Affiliate of the Partnership; and (d) the liquidation of the Partnership within the meaning of Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(g); provided, however, that adjustments pursuant to clauses (a) and (b) above shall be made only if the General Partner reasonably determines that such adjustments are necessary or appropriate to reflect the relative economic interests of the Partners in the Partnership;
(iii) The Gross Asset Value of any Partnership asset distributed to any Partner shall be adjusted to equal the gross fair market value of such asset on the date of distribution as determined by the General Partner; and
(iv) The Gross Asset Value of Partnership assets shall be increased (or decreased) to reflect any adjustments to the adjusted basis of such assets pursuant to Code Section 734(b) or Code Section 743(b), but only to the extent that such adjustments are taken into account in determining Capital Accounts pursuant to Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m) and paragraph (vi) of the definition of Net Profits and Net Losses and Section 7.3(G) below; provided, however, that Gross Asset Value shall not be adjusted pursuant to this paragraph (iv) to the extent the General Partner determines that an adjustment pursuant to paragraph (ii) above is necessary or appropriate in connection with a transaction that would otherwise result in an adjustment pursuant to this paragraph (iv).
If the Gross Asset Value of an asset has been determined or adjusted pursuant to paragraphs (i), (ii) or (iv) above, such Gross Asset Value shall thereafter be adjusted by the Depreciation taken into account with respect to such asset for purposes of computing Net Profits and Net Losses. It is the intent of this Agreement that Capital Accounts are at all times maintained in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-1. To the extent provided for in Regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures and/or other IRS guidance issued after the date hereof, the Partnership is hereby authorized to, and at the direction of the General Partner shall, elect a safe harbor under which the fair market value of any Partnership Interests issued after the effective date of such Regulations (or other guidance) will be treated as equal to the liquidation value of such Partnership Interests (i.e., a value equal to the total amount that would be distributed with respect to such interests if the Partnership sold all of its assets for their fair market value immediately after the issuance of such Partnership Interests, satisfied its liabilities (excluding any non-recourse liabilities to the extent the balance of such liabilities exceeds the fair market value of the assets that secure them) and distributed the net proceeds to the Partners under the terms of this Agreement). In the event that the Partnership makes a safe harbor election as described in the preceding sentence, each Partner hereby agrees to comply with all safe harbor requirements with respect to transfers of such Partnership Interests while the safe harbor election remains effective.
"" shall have the meaning provided in Section 11.6 below.
IRS
 
"" shall mean any Person (i) whose name is set forth as a Limited Partner on Schedule A or B attached hereto or who has become a Limited Partner pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and (ii) who holds a Partnership Interest. "Limited Partners" means all such persons. Nevertheless, solely for purposes of Section 16 of this Agreement, "Limited Partner" means and includes only those Partners, exclusive of the General Partner, who, at the time of reference, hold OP Units.
Limited Partner
"" is the targeted increased value of the Capital Account per LTIP Unit of a holder of LTIP Units of a particular class or series (as issued on a particular date pursuant to a LTIP Unit Designation) necessary for the LTIP Units governed by such LTIP Unit Designation to be automatically converted into OP Units.
LTIP Capital Target
"" shall have the meaning set forth in clause (g) of Section 3.2(B) below.
LTIP Unit Designation
"" shall mean long-term incentive plan interests in the Partnership issued from time to time following the date of this Agreement issued pursuant to Section 3.2(A)(iii) below. Holders of LTIP Units will agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of this Agreement and will be admitted as Limited Partners.
LTIP Units
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(C) below.
Market Price
"" and "" shall mean for each fiscal year or portion thereof, an amount equal to the Partnership's items of taxable income or loss for such year or period, determined in accordance with Section 703(a) of the Code with the following adjustments:
Net Profits
Net Losses
(i) any income which is exempt from Federal income tax and not otherwise taken into account in computing Net Profits or Net Losses shall be added to taxable income or loss;
(ii) any expenditures of the Partnership described in Code Section 705(a)(2)(B) or treated as Section 705(a)(2)(B) expenditures under Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(i) and not otherwise taken into account in computing Net Profits or Net Losses, will be subtracted from taxable income or loss;
(iii) in the event that the Gross Asset Value of any Partnership asset is adjusted pursuant to the definition of Gross Asset Value contained in this Section 2, the amount of such adjustment shall be taken into account as gain or loss from the disposition of such asset for purposes of computing Net Profits and Net Losses;
(iv) gain or loss resulting from any disposition of Partnership assets with respect to which gain or loss is recognized for Federal income tax purposes shall be computed by reference to the Gross Asset Value of the property disposed of, notwithstanding that the adjusted tax basis of such property differs from its Gross Asset Value;
(v) in lieu of the depreciation, amortization and other cost recovery deductions taken into account in computing such taxable income or loss, there shall be taken into account Depreciation for such fiscal year or other period;
 
(vi) to the extent an adjustment to the adjusted tax basis of any Partnership asset pursuant to Code Section 734(b) or Code Section 743(b) is required pursuant to Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m)(4) to be taken into account in determining Capital Accounts as a result of a distribution other than in complete liquidation of a Partner's Partnership Interest, the amount of such adjustment shall be treated as an item of gain (if the adjustment increases the basis of the asset) or loss (if the adjustment decreases the basis of the asset) from the disposition of the asset and shall be taken into account for purposes of computing Net Profits or Net Losses; and
(vii) any items specially allocated pursuant to Section 7.3 or Section 7.4 below shall not be considered in determining Net Profits or Net Losses.
"" shall mean a liability as defined in Regulations Section 1.704-2(b)(3).
Nonrecourse Debt
"" has the meaning set forth in Regulations Section 1.704-2(c).
Nonrecourse Deductions
"" shall mean that or those Limited Partner(s) listed as Obligated Partner(s) from time to time as recorded in the books and records maintained by the General Partner, whether by express amendment to this Partnership Agreement or by execution of a written instrument by and between any additional Obligated Partner(s) being directly affected thereby and the General Partner, acting on behalf of the Partnership and without the prior consent of the Limited Partners (whether or not Obligated Partners other than the Obligated Partner(s) being directly affected thereby). Any successor, Assignee, or transferee of the entire Partnership Interest of an Obligated Partner shall be considered an Obligated Partner; provided, however, that if an Obligated Partner makes a distribution of all or any portion of its OP Units in accordance with Section 12(B)(i)(z) hereof, the General Partner shall, upon receipt of written notice from such Obligated Partner and such distributee(s) of OP Units, add any such distributee(s) as an additional Obligated Partner in the manner set forth in such notice.
Obligated Partners
"" shall have the meaning provided in Section 8.1 below.
Operating Cash Flow
"" are units of Partnership Interest more particularly described in Section 3.2 below.
OP Units
"" shall mean, as of any given time, the positive balance, if any, of the Gross Asset Value of Partnership assets, less Partnership liabilities, less the Capital Accounts pertaining to Units excluding OP Units, divided by the number of OP Units outstanding.
OP Unit Net Asset Value
"" shall mean, as of any given time, the number of OP Units into which a Preference Unit or LTIP Unit is convertible (whether or not the conversion can then be effected), or the value of the Preference Unit expressed in OP Units if the Preference Unit is not convertible into OP Units, as provided for in the applicable Preference Unit Term Sheet or Other Securities Term Sheet. Nevertheless, the LTIP Unit Designation establishing any particular class or series of LTIP Units may prescribe an OP Unit Value that differs from the number of OP Units into which the subject LTIP Units may be converted for one or more specific purposes of this Agreement, including, without limitation, the OP Unit Value to be used in determining the amount of distributions of Operating Cash Flow and/or Capital Cash Flow payable in respect of such LTIP Units pursuant to Sections 8.1 and 8.2 of this Agreement.
OP Unit Value
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in clause (iv) of Section 3.2(B) below.
Other Securities
"" shall have the meaning provided in clause (f) of Section 3.2(B) below.
Other Securities Term Sheet
"" has the meaning set forth in Regulations Section 1.704-2(b)(4).
Partner Nonrecourse Debt
"" has the meaning set forth in Regulations Section 1.704-2(i).
Partner Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain
"" has the meaning set forth in Regulations Section 1.704-2(i).
Partner Nonrecourse Deductions
"" shall mean, collectively, the General Partner and the Limited Partners, and any additional or successor Partners of the Partnership admitted to the Partnership in accordance with the terms of this agreement. Reference to a Partner shall be to any one of the Partners.
Partners
"" shall mean the ownership interest of a Partner in the Partnership at any particular time, including the right of such Partner to any and all benefits to which such Partner may be entitled as provided in this Agreement, and to the extent not inconsistent with this Agreement, under the Act, together with the obligations of such Partner to comply with all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and of the Act. "Partnership Interests" means and includes OP Units, Preference Units and LTIP Units.
Partnership Interest
"" has the meaning set forth in Regulations Sections 1.704-2(b)(2) and 1.704-2(d).
Partnership Minimum Gain
"" shall mean, as to each Partner, the quotient (expressed as a percentage) arrived at by dividing (i) the sum of the OP Unit Value of any Preference Units held by that Partner, the OP Unit Value of LTIP Units held by that holder of LTIP Units and the number of OP Units held by that Partner, by (ii) the sum of the OP Unit Value of all Preference Units and LTIP Units issued and outstanding at the time and the total number of OP Units issued and outstanding at the time. The respective Percentage Interests of the Partners shall be maintained and revised as necessary in books and records kept by the General Partner to add Partners from time to time as provided in Section 3.1.
Percentage Interest
"" means any individual, partnership, corporation, trust or other entity.
Person
"" shall have the meaning provided in Section 12(B)(i) below.
Pledge
"" are units of Partnership Interest more particularly described in Section 3.2 below.
Preference Units
"" shall have the meaning provided in clause (e) Section 3.2(B) below.
Preference Unit Term Sheet
"" has the meaning set forth in Recital A above.
Prior Partnership Agreement
"" shall have the meaning provided in Section 3.2(C) below.
Recapitalization
 
"" shall have the meaning provided in Section 9.1(x) below.
Record Date
"" shall mean the amount of indebtedness owed by the Partnership other than Nonrecourse Debt and Partner Nonrecourse Debt.
Recourse Debt
"" shall mean the Income Tax Regulations, including Temporary and Proposed Regulations, promulgated under the Code, as such regulations may be amended from time to time (including corresponding provisions of succeeding regulations).
Regulations
"" shall mean with respect to any Obligated Partner, the amount set forth opposite the name of such Obligated Partner on from time to time as recorded in the books and records maintained by the General Partner by an amendment to the Partnership Agreement or by execution of a written instrument by and between such Obligated Partner, and/or any additional Obligated Partner(s) being directly affected thereby and the General Partner, acting on behalf of the Partnership and without the prior written consent of the Limited Partners (whether or not Obligated Partners other than the Obligated Partner(s) being directly affected thereby). If an Obligated Partner makes a distribution of all or any portion of its OP Units in accordance with Section 12(B)(i)(z) hereof, and the General Partner receives a written notice from such Obligated Partner and any distributee of OP Units to add such distributee as an additional Obligated Partner, the Restoration Amount of such additional Obligated Partner shall be increased by an amount equal to that amount set forth in such notice, and the Restoration Amount of the Obligated Partner making such distribution shall be reduced by such amount.
Restoration Amount
"" shall have the meaning provided in Section 11.5 below.
TMP
"" shall have the meaning provided in Section 9.7(E) below.
Third Party Loan
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(A) below.
Units
3. .
Capital
3.1 . At the time of the execution of this Agreement, the Partners have made or are credited with the Capital Contributions as set forth in the Partnership's books and records maintained by the General Partner. The Partners shall own OP Units in the amounts, and shall have a Percentage Interest in the Partnership as set forth in such books and records maintained by the General Partner, which Percentage Interest shall be adjusted from time to time by the General Partner to the extent necessary to reflect accurately redemptions, Capital Contributions, the issuance of additional OP Units, Preference Units, LTIP Units or similar events having an effect on a Partner's Percentage Interest. To the extent the Partnership is acquiring any property by the merger of any other Person into the Partnership, Persons who receive Partnership Interests in exchange for their interests in the Person merging into the Partnership shall become Partners and shall be deemed to have made Capital Contributions as provided in the applicable merger agreement and as set forth in the Partnership's books and records that will be appropriately revised and maintained by the General Partner.
Capital Contributions of the Partners
3.2 .
Issuance and Conversion of Units
A. The interest of a Partner in the Partnership is referred to as being evidenced by one or more "Units". In addition, the General Partner may cause the Partnership to issue LTIP Units to employees or non-employee trustees of the Partnership or Affiliates of the Partnership from time to time. Units may be "OP Units", "LTIP Units" or "Preference Units":
 
 
 
 
B. From time to time hereafter, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3.2(B), the General Partner shall cause the Partnership to issue additional Units as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issuance of OP Units as aforesaid shall be in accordance with the following:
 
 
 
 
Issuance of Preference Units as aforesaid shall be in accordance with the following:
 
 
Issuance of LTIP Units as aforesaid shall be in accordance with the following:
 
Units may also be issued to some or all of the Partners holding Preference Units if and to the extent of such Partner's participation in any reinvestment program contemplated by Section 3.3(C) below. Upon the issuance of additional OP Units and/or Preference Units in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3.2(B), each recipient of such Units shall either execute this Agreement or a joinder
 
to this Agreement (which joinder, as to Preference Units, may be a part of the applicable Preference Unit Term Sheet or Other Securities Term Sheet) and the Percentage Interests of all of the Partners shall thereupon be appropriately adjusted by the General Partner. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in no event shall any additional Preference Units or OP Units be issued (pursuant to this Section 3.2(B) or otherwise) to the extent that the effect of such issuance would be to reduce the General Partner's Percentage Interest to fifty percent (50%) or less.
C. Subject to the further provisions of this Section 3.2(C), the Company hereby grants to each Limited Partner holding OP Units the right to request an exchange of any or all of its OP Units for Common Shares, with one OP Unit being exchangeable for one Common Share. Such right may be exercised by a Limited Partner at any time and from time to time upon not less than ten (10) days prior written notice to the Partnership. Upon receipt of such a request, the Partnership may, in its discretion, in lieu of the Company's issuing Common Shares, pay to such Limited Partner cash in an amount equal to the product arrived at by multiplying (i) the number of OP Units requested to be exchanged by such Limited Partner multiplied by (ii) the Market Price, with such payment to be made within ten (10) days after the Partnership's receipt of the Limited Partner's exercise notice as aforesaid; provided, however, that in calculating Market Price for this Section 3.2(C) only, the "Determination Date" shall mean the trading date immediately preceding the date on which the Partnership receives notice from the holder of OP Units stating such holder's intention to exercise its right to request an exchange of its OP Units for Common Shares. As used in this Section 3.2(C), "Market Price" means either (a) the last reported sale price per share of the Common Shares at the close of trading on the Determination Date as reported in the Wall Street Journal (Midwest Edition) or such other reportable stock price reporting service as may be selected by the General Partner, or (b) in the event that the Common Shares were not traded on such Determination Date, then the last reported sale price as aforesaid on the most recent day that the Common Shares were traded. If the Partnership does not elect to make a cash payment, it shall be obligated to issue Common Shares as provided above. The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized but unissued Common Shares, solely for the purpose of effecting the exchange of OP Units for Common Shares, such number of Common Shares as shall from time to time be sufficient to effect the conversion of all outstanding OP Units not owned by the Company, OP Units that may become issuable upon the automatic conversion of LTIP Units and any Preference Units not owned by the Company that are convertible into OP Units (whether or not the conversion can then be effected). No Limited Partner shall, by virtue of being the holder of one or more LTIP Units, OP Units and/or Preference Units, be deemed to be a shareholder of or have any other interest in the Company. In the event of any change in the outstanding Common Shares by reason of any share dividend, split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination, exchange of shares or other similar corporate change (a "Recapitalization"), the number of OP Units held by each Partner (or into which Preference Units are or may be convertible, if applicable, or LTIP Units may be automatically converted into OP Units upon achievement of the LTIP Capital Target applicable to such LTIP Units) shall be proportionately adjusted so that one OP Unit remains exchangeable for one Common Share without dilution. The Assignee of any Limited Partner may exercise the rights of such Limited Partner pursuant to this Section 3.2(C), and such Limited Partner shall be deemed to have assigned such rights to such Assignee and shall be bound by the exercise of such rights by such Limited Partner's Assignee. In connection with any exercise of such rights by such Assignee on behalf of such Limited Partner, if the Partnership elects to make a cash payment as provided herein, the cash payment shall be paid by the Partnership directly to such Assignee and not to such Limited Partner. If the Company adopts a shareholder rights plan or such other plan or arrangement pursuant to which the holders of Common Shares are entitled to receive rights or other securities upon the occurrence of specified events, then the General Partner shall in good faith make an equitable adjustment to the exchange ratio of Common Shares for OP Units, as the General
 
Partner shall determine in its sole discretion, to protect the value of the OP Units if any rights or other securities issued under such plan or arrangement become exercisable and expire prior to a Determination Date. In the event the Company issues any Common Shares in exchange for OP Units pursuant to this Section 3.2(C), the General Partner shall record the transfer on the books of the Partnership so that the Company is thereupon the owner and holder of such OP Units. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 3.2(C), a Limited Partner shall not have the right to exchange OP Units for Common Shares if (i) in the opinion of counsel for the Company, the Company would, as a result thereof, no longer qualify (or it would be likely that the Company no longer would qualify) as a real estate investment trust under the Code; or (ii) such exchange would, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, constitute or be likely to constitute a violation of applicable securities laws. In either such event, to the extent the consequences described in (i) or (ii) could be eliminated by reasonable action of the Company without any material detriment to the Company and at the expense of such Limited Partner(s) requesting such exchange, the Company shall take all such reasonable action to effect the exchange of OP Units for Common Shares by such Limited Partner(s) as herein provided.
3.3 .
Additional Funds
A. No Partner shall be assessed or, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, required to contribute additional funds or other property to the Partnership. Any additional funds or other property required by the Partnership, as determined by the General Partner in its sole discretion, may, at the option of the General Partner and without an obligation to do so (except as provided for in Section 3.3(B) below), be contributed by the General Partner or any other Partner (provided such other Partner is willing to do so and the General consents thereto, each in its sole and absolute discretion) as additional Capital Contributions. The General Partner may also, in its sole discretion, cause the Partnership to accept Capital Contributions in connection with the issuance of LTIP Units. If and as the General Partner or any other Partner makes additional Capital Contributions to the Partnership, each such Partner shall receive additional OP Units and/or Preference Units as provided for in Section 3.2(B) above. The General Partner shall also have the right (but not the obligation) to raise any additional funds required for the Partnership in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.7(E) below and/or by causing the Partnership to borrow the necessary funds from third parties on such terms and conditions as the General Partner shall deem appropriate in its sole discretion. If the General Partner elects to cause the Partnership to borrow the additional funds, or if the Partnership issues a guaranty, indemnity or similar undertaking in connection with indebtedness of the Company as aforesaid, in any such case one or more of the Partnership's assets may be encumbered to secure the loan or undertaking. Except as provided for in Section 3.3(C) below, no Partner shall have the right to make additional Capital Contributions to the Partnership without the prior written consent of the General Partner.
B. Except for (i) the capitalization of any wholly owned entity of the General Partner which is the general partner of a partnership having the Partnership as a limited partner, (ii) the net proceeds generated by the issuance of Other Securities that evidence debt (and are not equity securities) that are loaned by the Company to the Partnership, and (iii) where, in the good faith opinion of the Company, the net proceeds generated by the issuance of Other Securities (whether for debt or equity) are retained by the Company for a valid business reason consistent with the purposes of the Partnership and such retention does not materially adversely affect the Limited Partners, the net proceeds of any and all funds raised by or through the Company through the issuance of Common Shares or Other Securities shall be contributed to the Partnership as additional Capital Contributions, and in such event the Company shall be issued additional Units pursuant to Section 3.2(B) above.
 
C. If the General Partner creates and administers a reinvestment program in substantial conformance with a dividend reinvestment program which may be available from time to time to holders of the Common Shares, each Limited Partner holding OP Units shall have the right to reinvest any or all cash distributions payable to it from time to time pursuant to this Agreement by having some or all (as the Limited Partner elects) of such distributions contributed to the Partnership as additional Capital Contributions, and in such event the Partnership shall issue to each such Limited Partner additional OP Units pursuant to clause (iv) of Section 3.2(B) above, or the General Partner may elect to cause distributions with respect to which a Limited Partner has elected reinvestment to be contributed to the Company in exchange for the issuance of Common Shares. At the option of the General Partner, such a program may also be made available with respect to Preference Units.
3.4 . A separate capital account ("Capital Account") shall be maintained for each Partner, inclusive of each holder of LTIP Units.
Capital Accounts
A. To each Partner's Capital Account there shall be credited such Partner's Capital Contributions, such Partner's distributive share of Net Profits and any items in the nature of income or gain which are specially allocated pursuant to Section 7.3, Section 7.4 or Section 14.2(C) hereof, and the amount of any Partnership liabilities assumed by such Partner or which are secured by any Partnership property distributed to such Partner.
B. To each Partner's Capital Account there shall be debited the amount of cash and the Gross Asset Value of any Partnership property distributed to such Partner pursuant to any provision of this Agreement, such Partner's distributive share of Net Losses and any items in the nature of expenses or losses which are specially allocated pursuant to Section 7.3 or Section 7.4 hereof, and the amount of any liabilities of such Partner assumed by the Partnership or which are secured by any property contributed by such Partner to the Partnership.
C. In the event all or a portion of a Partnership Interest, including LTIP Units is or are transferred in accordance with the terms of this Agreement (including a transfer of OP Units in exchange for Common Shares, pursuant to Section 3.2(C)), the transferee shall succeed to the Capital Account of the transferor to the extent it relates to the transferred Partnership Interest, including transferred LTIP Units.
D. In determining the amount of any liability for purposes of Sections 3.4(A) and 3.4(B) above, there shall be taken into account Code Section 752(c) and any other applicable provisions of the Code and Regulations.
E. This Section 3.4 and the other provisions of this Agreement relating to the maintenance of Capital Accounts are intended to comply with Regulations Section 1.704-1(b), and shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with such Regulations. In the event the General Partner shall determine that it is prudent to modify the manner in which the Capital Accounts, or any debits or credits thereto (including, without limitation, debits or credits relating to liabilities which are secured by contributed or distributed property or which are assumed by the Partnership, or the Partners) are computed in order to comply with such Regulations, the General Partner may make such modification, provided that it is not likely to have a material effect on the amounts distributed to any Partner pursuant to Section 14 below upon the dissolution of the Partnership. The General Partner also shall (i) make any adjustments that are necessary or appropriate to maintain equality between the Capital Accounts of the Partners and the amount of Partnership capital reflected on the Partnership's balance sheet, as computed for book purposes, in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(g), and (ii) make any appropriate modifications in the event unanticipated events (for example, the acquisition by the Partnership of oil or gas properties) might otherwise cause this Agreement not to comply with Regulations Section 1.704-1(b).
 
3.5 .
Interest on and Return of Capital
A. No Partner shall be entitled to any interest on its Capital Account or on its contributions to the capital of the Partnership.
B. Except as expressly provided for in this Agreement, no Partner shall have the right to demand or to receive the return of all or any part of his capital contributions to the Partnership and there shall be no priority of one Partner over the other as to the return of capital contributions or withdrawals or distributions of profits and losses. No Partner shall have the right to demand or receive property other than cash in return for the contributions of such Partner to the Partnership.
3.6 .
Negative Capital Accounts
A. Except as provided in the next sentence and Section 3.6(B), no Partner shall be liable to the Partnership or to any other Partner for any deficit or negative balance which may exist in such Partner's Capital Account. If any Obligated Partner has a deficit balance in its Capital Account (after giving effect to all contributions, distributions, allocations and adjustments to Capital Accounts for all periods), each such Obligated Partner shall contribute to the capital of the Partnership an amount equal to its respective deficit balance; such obligation to be satisfied by the end of the fiscal year of liquidation (or, if later, within ninety (90) days following the liquidation and dissolution of the Partnership.) Such contributions shall be used to make payments to creditors of the Partnership and such Obligated Partners (i) shall not be subrogated to the rights of any such creditor against the General Partner, the Partnership, another Partner or any person related thereto, and (ii) hereby waive any right to reimbursement, contribution or similar right to which such Obligated Partners might otherwise be entitled as a result of the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.
B. Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the General Partner and an Obligated Partner, prior to the time of admission of such Obligated Partner to the Partnership, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, an Obligated Partner shall cease to be an Obligated Partner for purposes of this Section 3.6 upon an exchange by such Obligated Partner of all remaining OP Units for Common Shares (pursuant to Section 3.2(C) or otherwise) 12 months after the date of such exchange by such Obligated Partner unless at the time of, or during the 12 month period following, such exchange, there has been:
 
 
 
 
This Section 3.6(B) shall not be amended without the consent of two-thirds in number of the Obligated Partners, provided, however, that no such amendment shall adversely affect an Obligated Partner without the written consent of such Obligated Partner.
3.7 . Neither the Limited Partners nor the General Partner shall be required to make any additional advances or contributions to or on behalf of the Partnership or to endorse any obligations of the Partnership.
Limit on Contributions and Obligations of Partners
3.8 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement which may be contrary to this Section 3.8, in the event of the proposed repurchase or redemption for cash by the Company of (i) Common Shares or, (ii) Other Securities with respect to which the Company had previously been issued Preference Units pursuant to Section 3.2(B)(vi) of this Agreement, then, in such event, the Partnership shall provide cash to the Company concurrently with such repurchase or redemption for such purpose equal to the proposed repurchase or redemption price, and one OP Unit owned by the General Partner (or, in the case of redemption or repurchase by the Company of Other Securities contemplated by clause (ii) above, one Preference Unit owned by the General Partner which had been issued with respect to such Other Securities) shall be cancelled with respect to each Common Share (or share of Other Securities) so repurchased or redeemed.
Redemption and Repurchase of Units
4. . The principal office of the Partnership shall be located at Two North Riverside Plaza, Suite 400, Chicago, Illinois 60606, or at such other place as the General Partner may designate after giving written notice of such designation to the other Partners.
Principal Office
5. .
Purposes and Powers of Partnership
A. The purposes of the Partnership shall be to acquire, purchase, own, operate, manage, develop, redevelop, invest in, finance, refinance, sell, lease and otherwise deal with multifamily residential properties and assets related thereto, and interests therein, whether directly or indirectly, alone or in association with others, and to conduct any other business that may be lawfully conducted by a limited partnership pursuant to the Act. The purposes of the Partnership include, but are not limited to:
(i) acquiring, developing, operating, leasing and managing multifamily residential properties and conducting any other lawful business relating thereto;
(ii) financing, mortgaging, exchanging, selling, encumbering or otherwise disposing of all or any part of a multifamily residential property or any interest therein;
 
(iii) constructing, reconstructing, altering, modifying and subtracting from or adding to a multifamily residential property or any part thereof;
(iv) organizing and holding partnership interests in partnerships owning or otherwise having an interest in, whether directly or indirectly, one or more multifamily residential properties; and
(v) in general, the making of any investments or expenditures, the borrowing and lending of money and the taking of any and all actions which are incidental or related to any of the purposes recited above.
It is agreed that each of the foregoing is an ordinary part of the Partnership's business and affairs. Property may be acquired subject to, or by assuming, the liens, encumbrances, and other title exceptions which affect such property. The Partnership may also be a partner, general or limited, in partnerships, general or limited, and joint ventures created to accomplish all or any of the foregoing.
B. The Partnership purposes may be accomplished by taking any action which is not prohibited under the Act and which is related to the acquisition, ownership, development, improvement, operation, management, financing, leasing, exchanging, selling or otherwise encumbering or disposing of all or any portion of the assets of the Partnership, or any interest therein.
6. . The term of the Partnership shall continue until the Partnership is terminated upon the occurrence of an event described in Section 14.1 below.
Term
7. .
Allocations
7.1 . After giving effect to the allocations set forth in Sections 7.3 and 7.4, Net Profits for any fiscal year shall be allocated to the Partners in the following order of priority:
Allocation of Net Profits
A. First, to the General Partner to the extent that the cumulative Net Losses allocated to the General Partner pursuant to Section 7.2(E) exceed the cumulative Net Profits allocated to the General Partner pursuant to this Section 7.1(A);
B. Second, to each Partner to the extent of and in proportion to the amount by which the cumulative Net Losses allocated to such Partner pursuant to Section 7.2(D) exceed the cumulative Net Profits allocated to such Partner pursuant to this Section 7.1(B);
C. Third, to the General Partner to the extent that the cumulative Net Losses allocated to the General Partner pursuant to Section 7.2(C) exceed the cumulative Net Profits allocated to the General Partner pursuant to this Section 7.1(C);
D. Fourth, to the Partners who hold Preference Units to the extent that the cumulative Net Losses allocated to such Partners in respect of their Preference Units pursuant to Section 7.2(B) exceed the cumulative Net Profits allocated to such Partners in respect of their Preference Units pursuant to this Section 7.1(D);
E. Fifth, to each Partner to the extent of and in proportion to the amount by which the cumulative Net Losses allocated to such Partner pursuant to Section 7.2(A) exceed the cumulative Net Profits allocated to such Partner pursuant to this Section 7.1(E); and
 
F. Thereafter, to the Partners in accordance with their respective Percentage Interests. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, allocations of Net Profits among holders of OP Units under Section 7.1(E) and this Section 7.1(F) shall be made in such a way, to the extent possible, as to minimize any differences between the Capital Account pertaining to each OP Unit and the OP Unit Net Asset Value. For this purpose, the OP Unit Net Asset Value shall be increased, on a Partner by Partner basis, to the extent a Partner is credited with the right to receive distributions of Operating Cash Flow and/or Capital Cash Flow from the Partnership pursuant to Section 8.1 and/or 8.2 hereof, respectively, in respect of any fiscal period, or portion thereof, that were not received in the fiscal year of declaration.
7.2 . After giving effect to the allocations set forth in Sections 7.3 and 7.4, Net Losses for each fiscal year shall be allocated to the Partners in the following order of priority:
Net Losses
A. First, to the Partners, in proportion to their respective Percentage Interests; provided that Net Losses allocated pursuant to this Section 7.2(A) shall not exceed the maximum amount of Net Losses that can be allocated without causing any Partner to have an Adjusted Capital Account Deficit (excluding for this purpose any increase to such Adjusted Capital Account Deficit for a Partner's actual obligation to fund a deficit Capital Account balance, including the obligation of an Obligated Partner to fund a deficit Capital Account balance pursuant to Section 3.6 hereof). Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, allocations of Net Losses among holders of OP Units shall be made in such a way, to the extent possible, as to minimize any differences between the Capital Account pertaining to each OP Unit and the OP Unit Net Asset Value. For this purpose, the OP Unit Net Asset Value shall be increased, on a Partner by Partner basis, to the extent a Partner is credited with the right to receive distributions of Operating Cash Flow and/or Capital Cash Flow from the Partnership pursuant to Section 8.1 and/or 8.2 hereof, respectively, in respect of any fiscal period, or portion thereof, that were not received in the fiscal year of declaration;
B. Second, to the Partners who hold Preference Units in proportion to the Capital Accounts pertaining to those Preference Units, until such Capital Account balance equals zero.
C. Third, to the General Partner, until the General Partner's Adjusted Capital Account Deficit (excluding for this purpose any increase to such Adjusted Capital Account Deficit for the obligation of any General Partner to actually fund a deficit Capital Account balance) equals the excess of (i) the amount of Recourse Liabilities over (ii) the Aggregate Restoration Amount;
D. Fourth, to the Obligated Partners, in proportion to their respective Restoration Amounts, until such time as the Obligated Partners have been allocated in aggregate amount of Net Losses pursuant to this Section 7.2(D) equal to the Aggregate Restoration Amount; and;
E. Thereafter, to the General Partner.
This Section 7.2 together with Section 7.1 shall control notwithstanding any reallocation or adjustment of taxable income, loss or other items by the IRS or any other taxing authority; provided, however, that neither the Partnership nor the General Partner (nor any of their respective affiliates) is required to indemnify any Obligated Partner (or its affiliates) for the loss of any tax benefit resulting from any reallocation or adjustment of taxable income, loss or other items by the IRS or other taxing authority. The provisions of Section 7.1 and this Section 7.2 shall not be amended in a manner which adversely affects an Obligated Partner (without consent of such Obligated Partner), provided that the General Partner may add additional Obligated Partners.
 
7.3 . The following special allocations shall be made in the following order:
Special Allocations
A. . Except as otherwise provided in Regulations Section 1.704-2(f), notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 7, if there is a net decrease in Partnership Minimum Gain during any fiscal year, each Partner shall be specially allocated items of Partnership income and gain for such fiscal year (and, if necessary, subsequent fiscal years) in an amount equal to such Partner's share of the net decrease in Partnership Minimum Gain, determined in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-2(g). The items to be so allocated shall be determined in accordance with Regulations Sections 1.704-2(f)(6) and 1.704-2(j)(2). This Section 7.3(A) is intended to comply with the minimum gain chargeback requirement in Section 1.704-2(f) of the Regulations and shall be interpreted consistently therewith.
Minimum Gain Chargeback
B. . Except as otherwise provided in Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(4), notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 7, if there is a net decrease in Partner Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain attributable to a Partner Nonrecourse Debt during any Partnership fiscal year, each Partner who has a share of the Partner Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain attributable to such Partner Nonrecourse Debt, determined in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(5), shall be specially allocated items of Partnership income and gain for such fiscal year (and, if necessary, subsequent fiscal years) in an amount equal to such Partner's share of the net decrease in Partner Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain attributable to such Partner Nonrecourse Debt, determined in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(4). The items to be so allocated shall be determined in accordance with Regulations Sections 1.704-2(i)(4) and 1.704-2(i)(2). This Section 7.3(B) is intended to comply with the minimum gain chargeback requirement in Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(4) and shall be interpreted consistently therewith.
Partner Minimum Gain Chargeback
C. . In the event any Partner unexpectedly receives any adjustments, allocations, or distributions described in Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(5), or Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(6), items of Partnership income and gain shall be specially allocated to each such Partner in an amount and manner sufficient to eliminate, to the extent required by the Regulations, the Adjusted Capital Account Deficit of such Partner as quickly as possible, provided that an allocation pursuant to this Section 7.3(C) shall be made only if and to the extent that such Partner would have an Adjusted Capital Account Deficit after all other allocations provided for this Section 7 have been tentatively made, as if this Section 7.3(C) were not in the Agreement.
Qualified Income Offset
D. . In the event any Partner has a deficit Capital Account at the end of any Partnership fiscal year which is in excess of the sum of (i) the amount such Partner is obligated to restore pursuant to any provision of this Agreement, and (ii) the amount such Partner is deemed to be obligated to restore pursuant to the penultimate sentences of Regulations Sections 1.704-2(g)(1) and 1.704-2(i)(5), each such Partner shall be specifically allocated items of Partnership income and gain in the amount of such excess as quickly as possible, provided that an allocation pursuant to this Section 7.3(D) shall be made only if and to the extent that such Partner would have a deficit Capital Account in excess of such sum after all other allocations provided for in this Section 7 have been made as if Section 7.3(C) hereof and this Section 7.3(D) were not in the Agreement.
Gross Income Allocation
E. . If and to the extent Partners are credited with the right to receive distributions from the Partnership in respect of any fiscal period, or portion thereof, during which such Partners are the holders of
Preferential Gross Income Allocations
 
Partnership Interests (other than (i) distributions pursuant to Section 14.2 in final liquidation of the Partnership), each such Partner shall be allocated an equal amount of Partnership gross income, excluding Gains and Losses, prior to any allocations of Net Profit and Net Loss pursuant to Sections 7.1 and 7.2 above. For purposes of this Section 7.3(E), any payment with respect to a Preference Unit that, under the applicable Preference Unit Term Sheet or Other Securities Term Sheet, as the case may be, constitutes a payment in redemption of such Preference Unit shall not be considered a distribution except to the extent such payment is specifically attributable to accrued and unpaid preferred distributions with respect to such Preference Unit provided for in such Term Sheet.
F. . Nonrecourse Deductions for any fiscal year shall be allocated among the Partners in accordance with their respective Percentage Interests.
Nonrecourse Deductions
G. . Any Partner Nonrecourse Deductions for any fiscal year shall be specially allocated to the Partner who bears the economic risk of loss with respect to the Partner Nonrecourse Debt to which such Partner Nonrecourse Deductions are attributable, in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(1).
Partner Nonrecourse Deductions
H. . To the extent an adjustment to the adjusted tax basis of any Partnership asset pursuant to Code Section 734(b) or Code Section 743(b) is required, pursuant to Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m)(2) or Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m)(4), to be taken into account in determining Capital Accounts as the result of a distribution to a Partner in complete liquidation of his interest in the Partnership, the amount of such adjustment to Capital Accounts shall be treated as an item of gain (if the adjustment increases the basis of the asset) or loss (if the adjustment decreases such basis) and such gain or loss shall be specifically allocated to the Partners in accordance with their respective Percentage Interests in the event that Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m)(2) applies, or the Partner to whom such distribution was made in the event that Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m)(4) applies.
Section 754 Adjustments
I. . Net Gains shall be specially allocated to the holders of LTIP Units, in an amount as specified in the LTIP Unit Designation relating to each class or series of LTIP Units. In no event shall an allocation under this Section 7.3(I) cause the Capital Accounts related to LTIP Units to exceed the LTIP Capital Target. Net Losses shall be specially allocated to the holders of LTIP Units to the extent of and in proportion to their respective Capital Accounts. In no event shall an allocation of Net Losses under this Section 7.3(I) create a deficit Capital Accounts balance in respect of any LTIP Units. LTIP Units not issued prior to the recognition of Partnership Net Gains or Net Losses shall not be considered in determining the amount of the special allocation under this Section 7.3(I). Net Gains and Net Losses not allocated under this Section 7.3(I) shall be allocated as Net Profits and Net Losses under Sections 7.1 and 7.2 of this Agreement.
Allocation of Net Gains and Net Losses to LTIP Units
J. . Upon the conversion of Preferred Units to OP Units, Net Gains or Net Losses shall be specially allocated to the holders of Preferred Units so that, to the extent possible, the Capital Account attributable to each OP Unit issued upon conversion of the Preferred Units is equal to the OP Unit Net Asset Value. An allocation pursuant to this Section 7.3(J) shall be made only if and to the extent that such Preferred Units would have a Capital Account greater to or less than the OP Unit Net Asset Value after all other allocations provided for in this Section 7 have been made as if this Section 7.3(J) were not in the Agreement.
Conversion of Preferred Units
 
K. . The Partnership shall apply the Special Allocations under this Section 7.3 in the following priority: Section 7.3(A), 7.3(B), 7.3(E), 7.3(J), 7.3(I), 7.3(D), 7.3(C), 7.3(F), 7.3(G).
Sequence of Special Allocations
7.4 . The allocations set forth in Sections 7.3(A), 7.3(B), 7.3(C), 7.3(D), 7.3(F), 7.3(G) and 7.3(H) above (the "Regulatory Allocations") are intended to comply with certain requirements of the Regulations under Sections 704(b) and 514(c)(9)(E) of the Code. It is the intent of the Partners that, to the extent possible, all Regulatory Allocations shall be offset either with other Regulatory Allocations or with special allocations of other items of Partnership income, gain, loss, or deduction pursuant to this Section 7.4. Therefore, notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 7 (other than the Regulatory Allocations), the General Partner shall make such offsetting special allocations of Partnership income, gain, loss, or deduction in whatever manner it determines appropriate so that, after such offsetting allocations are made, each Partner's Capital Account balance is, to the extent possible, equal to the Capital Account balance such Partner would have had if the Regulatory Allocations were not part of the Agreement and all Partnership items were allocated pursuant to Sections 7.1 and 7.2(A) (subject, however, to Section 7.3(E) above), and so that, to the greatest extent possible, such allocations comply with the Regulations under Code Section 514(c)(9)(E). In exercising its discretion under this Section 7.4, the General Partner shall take into account future Regulatory Allocations under Sections 7.3(A) and 7.3(B) that, although not yet made, are likely to offset other Regulatory Allocations previously made under Sections 7.3(F) and 7.3(G).
Curative Allocations
7.5 .
Tax Allocations: Code Section 704(c)
A. Income, gain, loss, and deduction with respect to any property contributed to the capital of the Partnership shall, solely for tax purposes, be allocated among the Partners so as to take account of any variation between the adjusted basis of such property to the Partnership for Federal income tax purposes and its initial Gross Asset Value in accordance with any permissible manner or manners under Code Section 704(c) and the Regulations thereunder.
B. In the event the Gross Asset Value of any Partnership asset is adjusted pursuant to the definition of "Gross Asset Value" contained in Section 2 above, subsequent allocations of income, gain, loss, and deduction with respect to such asset shall take account of any variation between the adjusted basis of such asset for Federal income tax purposes and its Gross Asset Value in accordance with any permissible manner or manners under Code Section 704(c) and the Regulations thereunder.
C. Any elections or other decisions relating to such allocations shall be made by the General Partner in any permissible manner under the Code or the Regulations that the General Partner may elect in its sole discretion. Allocations pursuant to this Section 7.5 are solely for purposes of Federal, state, and local taxes and shall not affect, or in any way be taken into account in computing, any Partner's Capital Account or share of Net Profits, Net Losses, other items, or distributions pursuant to any provision in this Agreement.
8. .
Cash Available For Distribution
8.1 . As used in this Agreement, "Operating Cash Flow" shall mean and be defined as all cash receipts of the Partnership from whatever source (but excluding Capital Cash Flow and excluding the proceeds of any additional Capital Contributions to the Partnership pursuant to Section 3.3 above) during the period in question in excess of all items of Partnership expense (other than non-cash expenses such as depreciation) and other cash needs of the Partnership, including, without limitation, amounts paid by the Partnership as principal on debts and advances, during such period, capital expenditures and any reserves (as determined by the General Partner) established or increased during such period. In the discretion of the General Partner,
Operating Cash Flow
 
reserves may include cash held for future acquisitions. Operating Cash Flow shall be distributed to or for the benefit of the Partners including, to the extent provided in the applicable LTIP Unit Declaration, holders of LTIP Units, of record as of the applicable Record Date not less frequently than annually, and shall be distributed: first to those Partners holding Preference Units to the extent of the respective priorities (if any) established by the applicable Preference Unit Term Sheets and Other Securities Term Sheets; and then the balance prorata among the Partners holding OP Units and LTIP Units (on the basis of the OP Unit Value of each outstanding class or series of LTIP Units as set forth in the applicable LTIP Unit Designation, which will in no event exceed one OP Unit per LTIP Unit) and the Partners holding Preference Units which, based on the provisions of the applicable Preference Unit Term Sheets and Other Securities Term Sheets, entitle such Partners to participate in such distributions on a pari passu basis with the holders of OP Units and LTIP Units (the "Residual Operating Cash Flow Units"), to each Partner based on the quotient (expressed as a percentage) arrived at by dividing (i) the sum of the OP Unit Value of any Residual Operating Cash Flow Units held by that Partner and the number of OP Units and OP Unit Value of LTIP Units held by that Partner by (ii) the sum of the OP Unit Value of all Residual Operating Cash Flow Units and LTIP Units issued and outstanding at the time and the total number of OP Units issued and outstanding at the time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any incoming Limited Partners who were admitted during the applicable quarter (but excluding any incoming Partners who received Units from an existing Limited Partner) and who held Units as of an applicable Record Date, but held such Units for less than the entire period with respect to which an Operating Cash Flow distribution is to be paid, shall be entitled to receive a pro-rated portion of such Operating Cash Flow distribution otherwise payable to such Partner based on the number of days such Units were outstanding during the applicable period, or any other method of pro-ration deemed equitable by the General Partner, and in such event, if the General Partner, in its sole discretion, deems it necessary, the amount of the distribution payable to all other Partners shall be adjusted accordingly.
8.2 . As used in this Agreement, "Capital Cash Flow" shall mean and be defined as collectively (a) gross proceeds realized in connection with the sale of any assets of the Partnership, (b) gross financing or refinancing proceeds, (c) gross condemnation proceeds (excluding condemnation proceeds applied to restoration of remaining property) and (d) gross insurance proceeds (excluding rental insurance proceeds or insurance proceeds applied to restoration of property), less (a) closing costs, (b) the cost to discharge any Partnership financing encumbering or otherwise associated with the asset(s) in question, (c) the establishment of reserves (as determined by the General Partner, and which may include cash held for future acquisitions), and (d) other expenses of the Partnership then due and owing. Subject to Section 14.2 below, if applicable, Capital Cash Flow shall be distributed to or for the benefit of the Partners, including, to the extent provided in the applicable LTIP Unit Declaration, holders of LTIP Units, of record as of the applicable Record Date not less frequently than annually and shall be distributed: first to the Partners holding Preference Units to the extent of the respective priorities (if any) established by the applicable Preference Unit Term Sheets and Other Securities Term Sheets; and then the balance prorata among those Partners holding OP Units and LTIP Units (on the basis of the OP Unit Value of each outstanding class or series of LTIP Units as set forth in the applicable LTIP Unit Designation which will in no event exceed one OP Unit per LTIP Unit) and those Partners holding Preference Units which, based on the provisions of the applicable Preference Unit Term Sheets and Other Securities Term Sheets, entitle such Partners to participate in such distributions on a pari passu basis with the holders of OP Units (the "Capital Cash Flow Preference Units"), to each Partner based on the quotient (expressed as a percentage) arrived at by dividing (i) the sum of the OP Unit Value of any Capital Cash Flow Preference Units and LTIP Units held by that Partner and the number of OP Units held by that Partner by (ii) the sum of the OP Unit Value of all Capital Cash Flow Preference Units and LTIP Units issued and outstanding at the time and the total number of OP Units issued and outstanding at the time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the General Partner reserves the right to pro-rate distributions of Capital Cash Flow to incoming
Capital Cash Flow
 
Limited Partners who were admitted during the applicable quarter (but excluding any incoming Partners who received Units from an existing Limited Partner) and who held Units as of the applicable Record Date but held such Units for less than the entire period with respect to which the Capital Cash Flow distribution is to be paid, based on the number of days such Units were outstanding during the applicable period, or any other method of pro-ration deemed equitable by the General Partner and, in such event, the amount of the distribution payable to all other Partners shall be adjusted accordingly.
8.3 . Each of the Partners hereby consents to the distributions provided for in this Agreement.
Consent to Distributions
8.4 . The right of any Partner to receive distributions of any nature pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall be subject to the terms of any agreement between such Partner and the Partnership limiting, restricting or providing rights of set-off with respect to such distributions.
Right to Limit Distributions
8.5 . Each Partner hereby authorizes the Partnership to withhold or pay on behalf of or with respect to such Partner any amount of federal, state, local or foreign taxes that the General Partner determines the Partnership is required to withhold or pay with respect to any amount distributable or allocable to such Partner pursuant to this Agreement. To the extent the payment or accrual of withholding tax results in a federal, state or local tax credit to the Partnership, such credit shall be allocated to the Partner from whom amounts were withheld from distributions. The General Partner shall report on no less than an annual basis to each Partner the amount(s) of any withholding and the jurisdiction(s) of the withholding. The General Partner has no obligation to return amounts withheld to any Partner or to file a claim for refund with any jurisdiction on behalf of a Partner.
Withholding
9. .
Management of Partnership
9.1 . The General Partner shall be the sole manager of the Partnership business, and shall have the right and power to make all decisions and take any and every action with respect to the property, the business and affairs of the Partnership and shall have all the rights, power and authority generally conferred by law, or necessary, advisable or consistent with accomplishing the purposes of the Partnership. All such decisions or actions made or taken by the General Partner hereunder shall be binding upon all of the Partners and the Partnership. The powers of the General Partner to manage the Partnership business shall include, without limitation, the power and authority to, directly or indirectly:
General Partner
(i) operate any business normal or customary for the owner of or investor in multifamily residential property;
(ii) perform any and all acts necessary or appropriate to the operation of the Partnership assets, including, but not limited to, applications for rezoning, objections to rezoning of other property and the establishment of bank accounts in the name of the Partnership;
(iii) procure and maintain with responsible companies such insurance as may be available in such amounts and covering such risks as are deemed appropriate by the General Partner;
(iv) take and hold all real, personal and mixed property of the Partnership in the name of the Partnership or in the name of a nominee;
 
(v) execute and deliver leases on behalf of and in the name of the Partnership;
(vi) borrow money (whether on a secured or unsecured basis), finance and refinance the assets of the Partnership or any part thereof or interest therein, and in connection therewith, issue notes, bonds, securities and other undertakings and evidences of indebtedness and documents related thereto (including, without limitation, guaranty, indemnities and similar undertakings to support loans obtained or debt securities issued by the Company where the net proceeds thereof are either loaned to the Partnership or contributed to the Partnership as a Capital Contribution);
(vii) coordinate all accounting and clerical functions of the Partnership and employ such accountants, lawyers, property managers, leasing agents and other management or service personnel as may from time to time be required to carry on the business of the Partnership;
(viii) acquire any assets, and encumber, sell, ground lease or otherwise dispose of any or all of the assets of the Partnership (including by way of merger, consolidation or other combination with any other Person), or any part thereof or interest therein; and
(ix) organize one or more partnerships or limited liability companies which are controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Partnership (including, without limitation, Equity Residential Management, L.L.C.) and make any capital contributions required pursuant to the partnership or limited liability company agreements of any such partnerships or limited liability companies.
(x) establish the date (the "Record Date") for the purpose of making any proper determination with respect to which Partners are entitled to receive distributions, consent to any matter for which the consent of Partners is permitted or required under any provision hereof, or otherwise be allocated rights hereunder.
9.2 . Notwithstanding the powers of the General Partner set forth in Section 9.1 above, no Partner shall have the right or power to do any of the following:
Limitations on Powers and Authorities of Partners
(a) do any act in contravention of this Agreement, or any amendment hereto;
(b) do any act which would make it impossible to carry on the ordinary business of the Partnership, except to the extent that such act is specifically permitted by the terms hereof (it being understood and agreed that, except as hereafter provided in this Section 9.2, a sale of any or all of the assets of the Partnership, for example, would be an ordinary part of the Partnership's business and affairs and is specifically permitted hereby); or
(c) confess a judgment against the Partnership.
 
9.3 . The Limited Partners shall have no right or authority to act for or to bind the Partnership and no Limited Partner shall participate in the conduct or control of the Partnership's affairs or business.
Limited Partners
9.4 . The General Partner shall not be liable or accountable, in damages or otherwise, to the Partnership or to any other Partner for any error of judgment or for any mistakes of fact or law or for anything which it may do or refrain from doing hereafter in connection with the business and affairs of the Partnership except (i) in the case of fraud, willful misconduct (such as an intentional breach of fiduciary duty or an intentional breach of this Agreement) or gross negligence, and (ii) for other breaches of this Agreement, but the liability of the General Partner under this clause (ii) shall be limited to its interest in the Partnership as more particularly provided for in Section 9.8 below. The General Partner shall not have any personal liability for the return of any Limited Partner's capital.
Liability of General Partner
9.5 . The Partnership shall indemnify and shall hold the General Partner (and the officers and trustees thereof) harmless from any loss or damage, including without limitation reasonable legal fees and court costs, incurred by it by reason of anything it may do or refrain from doing hereafter for and on behalf of the Partnership or in connection with its business or affairs; provided, however, that (i) the Partnership shall not be required to indemnify the General Partner (or any officer or trustee thereof) for any loss or damage which it might incur as a result of its fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence in the performance of its duties hereunder and (ii) this indemnification shall not relieve the General Partner of its proportionate part of the obligations of the Partnership as a Partner. In addition, the General Partner shall be entitled to reimbursement from the Partnership for any amounts paid by it in satisfaction of indemnification obligations owed by the General Partner to present or former trustees or officers of the General Partner or its predecessors, or other Persons indemnified by the General Partner, as provided for in or pursuant to the Declaration of Trust and By-Laws of the General Partner or otherwise. The right of indemnification set forth in this Section 9.5 shall be in addition to any rights to which the person or entity seeking indemnification may otherwise be entitled and shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of any such person or entity. No Partner shall be personally liable with respect to any claim for indemnification pursuant to this Section 9.5, but such claim shall be satisfied solely out of assets of the Partnership.
Indemnity
9.6 . The General Partner shall devote its full-time efforts in furtherance of the Partnership business, it being expressly understood that, except for (i) the Company's ownership interest in a partnership or a limited liability company of which the Partnership is a partner or a member, respectively; (ii) the Company's ownership of any qualified REIT subsidiary (within the meaning of the Code) or any other entity which is a partner of a partnership or a member of a limited liability company having the Partnership as a partner or member, respectively; (iii) the Company's ownership of any entity that owns no more than a one percent (1%) interest in any partnership, limited liability company or other entity; (iv) borrowing (including the issuance of debt securities) where the net proceeds thereof are loaned or contributed to the Partnership; (v) any activity which the Board of Trustees of the General Partner, in its sole discretion, has determined will have a material benefit to the General Partner and will not have a material adverse effect on the Partnership; and (vi) activities incidental to the Company's status and existence as a real estate investment trust, the General Partner shall conduct all of its activities with respect to the multifamily residential property business exclusively through the Partnership and shall not conduct or engage in any way in any other business.
Other Activities of Partners and Agreements with Related Parties
9.7 .
Other Matters Concerning the General Partner
A. The General Partner shall be protected in relying, acting or refraining from acting on any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, bond, debenture, or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties.
 
B. The General Partner may exercise any of the powers granted or perform any of the duties imposed by this Agreement either directly or through agents. The General Partner may consult with counsel, accountants, appraisers, management consultants, investment bankers and other consultants selected by it, each of whom may serve as consultants for the Partnership. An opinion by any consultant on a matter which the General Partner believes to be within its professional or expert competence shall be full and complete protection as to any action taken or omitted by the General Partner based on the opinion and taken or omitted in good faith. The General Partner shall not be responsible for the misconduct, negligence, acts or omissions of any consultant or contractor of the Partnership or of the General Partner, and shall assume no obligations other than to use due care in the selection of all consultants and contractors.
C. No mortgagee, grantee, creditor or any other person dealing with the Partnership shall be required to investigate the authority of the General Partner or secure the approval of or confirmation by any Limited Partner of any act of the General Partner in connection with the conduct of the Partnership business.
D. The General Partner may retain such persons or entities as it shall determine (including the General Partner or any entity in which the General Partner shall have an interest or with which it is affiliated) to provide services to or on behalf of the Partnership. The General Partner shall be entitled to reimbursement from the Partnership for its out-of-pocket expenses (including, without limitation, amounts paid or payable to the General Partner or any entity in which the General Partner shall have an interest or with which it is affiliated) incurred in connection with Partnership business. Such expenses shall be deemed to include those expenses required in connection with the administration of the Partnership such as the maintenance of Partnership books and records, management of the Partnership property and assets and preparation of information respecting the Partnership needed by the Partners in the preparation of their individual tax returns.
E. The General Partner may loan to the Partnership the net proceeds of loans obtained or debt securities issued by the Company so long as the terms of such loan to the Partnership are substantially equivalent to the corresponding loan obtained or debt securities issued by the Company.
9.8 . Except for fraud, willful misconduct and gross negligence, no Partner shall have any personal liability whatever, whether to the Partnership or to the other Partner, for the debts or liabilities of the Partnership or its obligations hereunder, and the full recourse of the other Partner shall be limited to the interest of that Partner in the Partnership. To the fullest extent permitted by law, no officer, trustee or shareholder of the General Partner shall be liable to the Partnership for money damages except for (i) active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment or (ii) actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services. Without limitation of the foregoing, and except for fraud, willful misconduct and gross negligence, no property or assets of any Partner, other than its interest in the Partnership, shall be subject to levy, execution or other enforcement procedures for the satisfaction of any judgment (or other judicial process) in favor of any other Partner(s) and arising out of, or in connection with, this Agreement. This Agreement is executed by the officers or general partners of each Partner solely as officers or partners of the same and not in their own individual capacities. No advisor, trustee, officer, partner, employee, beneficiary, shareholder, participant or agent of any Partner (or of any partner of a Partner) shall be personally liable in any matter or to any extent under or in connection with this Agreement, and the Partnership, each Partner and their respective successors and assigns shall look solely to the interest of the other Partner in the Partnership for the payment of any claim or for any performance hereunder.
Partner Exculpation
 
9.9 . All costs and expenses incurred by the Company in connection with its activities as the General Partner hereunder, all costs and expenses incurred by the Company in connection with its continued corporate existence, qualification as a real estate investment trust under the Code and otherwise, and all other liabilities incurred or suffered by the General Partner in connection with the pursuit of its business and affairs as contemplated hereunder and in connection herewith, shall be paid (or reimbursed to the Company, if paid by the Company) by the Partnership unless and to the extent that any such costs were paid by the Company in connection with the issuance of additional shares of beneficial interest of the Company as contemplated by Section 3.3(B) above. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this Section 9.9 shall apply only to the extent that such costs, expenses or liabilities exceed any cash distributed to the General Partner by any wholly-owned subsidiary of the General Partner.
General Partner Expenses and Liabilities
10. . The funds of the Partnership shall be kept in accounts designated by the General Partner and all withdrawals therefrom shall be made on such signature or signatures as shall be designated by the General Partner.
Banking
11. .
Accounting
11.1 . The fiscal year and taxable year of the Partnership (the "fiscal year") shall end on the last day of December of each year, unless another fiscal year end is selected by the General Partner.
Fiscal Year
11.2 . The Partnership books of account shall be maintained at the principal office designated in Section 4 above or at such other locations and by such person or persons as may be designated by the General Partner. The Partnership shall pay the expense of maintaining its books of account. Each Partner shall have, during reasonable business hours and upon reasonable prior notice, access to the books of the Partnership and in addition, at its expense, shall have the right to copy such books. The General Partner, at the expense of the Partnership, shall cause to be prepared and distributed to the Partners annual financial data sufficient to reflect the status and operations of the Partnership and its assets and to enable each Partner to file its federal income tax return.
Books of Account
11.3 . The Partnership books of account shall be maintained and kept, and its income, gains, losses and deductions shall be accounted for, in accordance with sound principles of accounting consistently applied, or such other method of accounting as may be adopted hereafter by the General Partner. All elections and options available to the Partnership for Federal or state income tax purposes shall be taken or rejected by the Partnership in the sole discretion of the General Partner.
Method of Accounting
11.4 . In case of a distribution of property made in the manner provided in Section 734 of the Code (or any similar provision enacted in lieu thereof), or in the case of a transfer of any interest in the Partnership permitted by this Agreement made in the manner provided in Section 743 of the Code (or any similar provision enacted in lieu thereof), the General Partner, on behalf of the Partnership, will file an election under Section 754 of the Code (or any similar provision enacted in lieu thereof) in accordance with the procedures set forth in the applicable Regulations.
Section 754 Election
 
11.5 . The General Partner is hereby designated the Tax Matters Partner (hereinafter referred to as the "TMP") of the Partnership and shall have all the rights and obligations of the TMP under the Code.
Tax Matters Partner
11.6 . If the TMP receives notice of a Final Partnership Administrative Adjustment (the "FPAA") or if a request for an administrative adjustment made by the TMP is not allowed by the United States Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") and the IRS does not notify the TMP of the beginning of an administrative proceeding with respect to the Partnership's taxable year to which such request relates (or if the IRS so notifies the TMP but fails to mail a timely notice of an FPAA), the TMP may, but shall not be obligated to, petition a Court for readjustment of partnership items. In the case of notice of an FPAA, if the TMP determines that the United States District Court or Claims Court is the most appropriate forum for such a petition, the TMP shall notify each person who was a Partner at any time during the Partnership's taxable year to which the IRS notice relates of the approximate amount by which its tax liability would be increased (based on such assumptions as the TMP may in good faith make) if the treatment of partnership items on his return was made consistent with the treatment of partnership items on the Partnership's return, as adjusted by the FPAA. Unless each such person deposits with the TMP, for deposit with IRS, the approximate amount of his increased tax liability, together with a written agreement to make additional deposits if required to satisfy the jurisdictional requirements of the Court, within thirty days after the TMP's notice to such person, the TMP shall not file a petition in such Court. Instead, the TMP may, but shall not be obligated to, file a petition in the United States Tax Court.
Administrative Adjustments
12. .
Transfers of Partnership Interests
A. . In no event may the General Partner at any time assign, sell, transfer, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of all or any portion of its Partnership Interest, except by operation of law.
General Partner
B. .
Limited Partner
(i) No Limited Partner or substituted Limited Partner shall, without the prior written consent of the General Partner (which consent may be given or withheld in the sole discretion of the General Partner), sell, assign, distribute or otherwise transfer (a "Transfer") all or any part of his interest in the Partnership, except (w) by operation of law, testamentary disposition, gift (outright or in trust) or by sale, in each case to or for the benefit of his parent(s), spouse or descendants, (x) pledges or other collateral transfers effected by a Limited Partner to secure the repayment of a bona fide loan or other obligation (a "Pledge") and the subsequent foreclosure or satisfaction thereof by transfer of such OP Units, (y) the exchange of OP Units for shares of beneficial interest of the Company, pursuant to Section 3.2(C) above, and (z) the distribution of OP Units or Preference Units by a Limited Partner to any of its direct or indirect constituent partners or owners. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each such transfer shall be subject to compliance with restrictions on transferability contained in any other applicable agreement executed by the transferor and compliance with applicable securities laws; the General Partner reserves the right to require an opinion of counsel regarding such matters in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the General Partner as a condition to any such Transfer. Neither the conversion of a Preference Unit into one or more OP Units nor the conversion of OP Unit into a Common Share constitutes a Transfer. A Limited Partner shall notify the General Partner of any Transfer of beneficial interest or other interest which occurs without a transfer of record ownership, as well as any pledge or other collateral transfer. No part of the interest of a Limited Partner shall be subject to the claims of any creditor, any spouse for alimony or support, or to legal process, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily alienated or encumbered except as may be specifically provided for in this Agreement. A Limited Partner shall not be permitted to retire or withdraw from the Partnership except as expressly permitted by this Agreement.
 
(ii) An Assignee, legatee, distributee or other transferee (whether by conveyance, operation of law or otherwise) (including any pledgee upon realization of its rights as a secured creditor) (a "Transferee") of all or any portion of a Limited Partner's interest in the Partnership shall be entitled to receive Net Profits, Net Losses and distributions hereunder attributable to such interest acquired by reason of such Transfer, from and after the effective date of the Transfer of such interest, and Assignees shall have the ability to exercise the rights granted to Limited Partners under Section 3.2(C), but shall not have any consent rights with respect to any matter presented to Limited Partners for approval; provided, however, anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, (a) no Transfer by a Limited Partner shall be effective until such Transfer has been consented to by the General Partner except as provided in Section 12(B)(i); (b) without the prior written consent of the General Partner, no Transferee shall be considered a substituted Limited Partner except as provided in Section 12(B)(i)(w) and (z) and, in any event, until such Transferee shall have agreed to be bound by the terms of this Agreement and shall have executed a counterpart hereof; (c) the Partnership and the General Partner shall be entitled to treat the transferor of such interest as the absolute owner thereof in all respects, and shall incur no liability for the allocation of Net Profits and Net Losses or distributions which are made to such transferor until such time as the written instrument of Transfer has been received by the General Partner and the "effective date" of the Transfer has passed, (d) the General Partner shall have the right to require any such transferor to exchange the OP Units to which such interest relates for Common Shares, pursuant to Section 3.2(C) above, excluding Pledges of OP Units but including any transfer of the pledged OP Units, whether to the secured party or otherwise, pursuant to such party's exercise of its remedies under the Pledge or the related loan or obligation, and (e) an Assignee shall not be bound by any amendments, modifications or changes to this Agreement that would adversely affect its rights under Section 3.2(C) or this Section 12(B)(ii) without its consent. The "effective date" of any Transfer shall be the last day of the month set forth on the written instrument of Transfer or such other date consented to in writing by the General Partner as the "effective date".
(iii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 12(B), (a) in the event a Limited Partner distributes in dissolution and liquidation all or any portion of its interest in the Partnership, the partners, shareholders or members (as the case may be) in such Limited Partner receiving such interest shall become substituted Limited Partners, and shall (upon agreeing to be bound by the terms of this Agreement and executing a counterpart hereof and/or any Preference Unit Terms Sheet or Other Securities Term Sheet) succeed to the rights, interests and obligations of such Limited Partner in the Partnership, in proportion to their respective interests in such Limited Partner, and (b) no Transfer shall be effective to the extent that such Transfer would, in the opinion of the General Partner (y) by treating the interest in the Partnership so transferred as if it had been exchanged for Common Shares in accordance with Section 3.2(C) above, violate the limitations on ownership of Common Shares contained in Article VII of the Declaration of Trust of the Company, or (z) violate any State or Federal securities laws.
C. . No holder of LTIP Units may sell, assign, distribute or otherwise transfer (an "LTIP Transfer") any LTIP Units, except by operation of law, testamentary disposition, gift (outright or in trust), in each case to or for the benefit of his parent(s), spouse or descendants and any attempted Transfer not expressly permitted by this Section 12(C) shall be void ab initio. Any permitted transferee of LTIP Units shall assume the status of an "Assignee" of such LTIP Units, shall be entitled to receive Net Profits, Net Losses and distributions hereunder attributable to such interest acquired by reason of such Transfer, from and after the effective date of the Transfer of such LTIP Units. The Partnership and the General Partner shall be entitled to treat the transferor of such LTIP Units as the absolute owner thereof in all respects, and shall incur no liability for the allocation of Net Profits and Net
LTIP Units
 
Losses or distributions which are made to such transferor until such time as the written instrument of LTIP Transfer has been received by the General Partner and the "effective date" of the LTIP Transfer has passed. The "effective date" of any LTIP Transfer shall be the last day of the month set forth on the written instrument of LTIP Transfer or such other date consented to in writing by the General Partner as the "effective date". The General Partner may, in its sole discretion, require any permitted transferee of LTIP Units to agree in writing to be bound by the terms and provisions of this Agreement prior to such transferees admission as a Limited Partner if and when any LTIP Units which have been the subject of an LTIP Transfer automatically convert to OP Units.
D. . The General Partner shall, when necessary, cause this Agreement to be amended from time to time to reflect the addition or withdrawal of Partners, and the issuance, conversion, cancellation and redemption of any LTIP Units, Preference Units and/or OP Units (including the corresponding adjustments to Percentage Interests).
Admission Adjustments
E. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, no sale, exchange, assignment, or other transfer or issuance of a Partnership Interest by or to any Partner shall be effective, if the effect of such transaction would be to cause the General Partner's Percentage Interest to decrease to a level of fifty percent (50%) or less.
Limitation
13. . The General Partner shall admit to the Partnership as Limited Partners those persons and entities who are not already Partners and who receive OP Units and/or Preference Units in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Admission of New Partners
14. .
Termination, Liquidation and Dissolution of Partnership
14.1 . Partnership shall be dissolved and its affairs wound up in the manner hereinafter provided upon the earliest to occur of the following events:
Termination Events
 
 
14.2 . Upon the happening of any of the events specified in Section 14.1 above, the General Partner (or if there be no General Partner, a liquidating trustee selected by those Limited Partners holding in the aggregate more than fifty percent 50% of the Percentage Interests held by all Limited Partners) shall immediately commence to wind up the Partnership's affairs and shall liquidate the assets of the Partnership as promptly as possible, unless the General Partner, or the liquidating trustee, shall determine that an immediate sale of Partnership assets would cause undue loss to the Partnership, in which event the liquidation may be deferred for a reasonable time. The Partners shall continue to share Operating Cash Flow, Capital Cash Flow, Net Profits and Net Losses during the period of liquidation in the same proportions as before dissolution (subject to Section 14.2(C) below). The proceeds from liquidation of the Partnership, including repayment of any debts of Partners to the Partnership, shall be applied in the order of priority as follows:
Method of Liquidation
A. Debts of the Partnership, including repayment of principal and interest on loans and advances made by the General Partner pursuant to Sections 3.3 and/or 9.7 above; then
 
B. To the establishment of any reserves deemed necessary or appropriate by the General Partner, or by the person(s) winding up the affairs of the Partnership in the event there is no remaining General Partner of the Partnership, for any contingent or unforeseen liabilities or obligations of the Partnership. Such reserves established hereunder shall be held for the purpose of paying any such contingent or unforeseen liabilities or obligations and, at the expiration of such period as the General Partner, or such person(s) deems advisable, the balance of such reserves shall be distributed in the manner provided hereinafter in this Section 14.2 as though such reserves had been distributed contemporaneously with the other funds distributed hereunder; then
C. To the Partners, including the holders of LTIP Units, in accordance with their respective Capital Account balances, after giving effect to all contributions, distributions and allocations for all periods. In connection therewith, the Company, as the holder of Preference Units, shall be allocated gross income to the extent necessary to cause its Capital Account balance to equal the amount established in the applicable Other Securities Term Sheet upon any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Partnership; provided, that no such gross income allocation shall be made to the Company to the extent that such allocation would result in any additional Net Loss (or item thereof) being allocated to any Obligated Partner.
14.3 . The Partnership shall be terminated when all notes received in connection with such disposition have been paid and all of the cash or property available for application and distribution under Section 14.2 above (including reserves) shall have been applied and distributed in accordance therewith.
Date of Termination
14.4 .
Reconstitution Upon Bankruptcy
A. Notwithstanding any dissolution of the Partnership under clause (c) of Section 14.1 above, if the Partnership is reconstituted as set forth in this Section 14.4, then the business of the Partnership shall be continued with the Partnership's property and the Partnership's assets shall not be liquidated.
B. If the Partnership is dissolved by reason of the bankruptcy of the General Partner, a successor general partner may be admitted within 90 days after the dissolution, effective as of the date of dissolution, as the General Partner hereunder, with the written consent of those Limited Partners holding more than 50% of the aggregate Percentage Interests of all Limited Partners. Upon the admission of such successor general partner, without any further consent or approval of any other Partner, the Partnership shall be reconstituted as a successor limited partnership.
C. If the Partnership is dissolved by reason of the bankruptcy of the Partnership in a proceeding for the reorganization (and not the liquidation) of the Partnership, then, with the consent of the Company and those Limited Partners holding at least fifty percent (50%) of the Percentage Interests held by all Limited Partners, the Partnership may be reconstituted within 90 days after dissolution, effective as of the date of dissolution, whereupon the Partnership shall be reconstituted as a successor limited partnership.
 
D. The successor limited partnership reconstituted in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 14.4 shall continue the business of the Partnership with the Partnership's property. The Percentage Interests of the Partners in the successor limited partnership shall be in proportion to their respective Percentage Interests in the dissolved Partnership. Such successor limited partnership shall be governed by the terms and provisions of this Agreement and references in this Agreement to the Partnership or to the Partners or their rights and obligations shall be understood to comprehend such successor limited partnership and the Partners thereof and their rights and obligations.
14.5 . The death, legal incompetency, insolvency, dissolution or bankruptcy of a Limited Partner shall not dissolve or terminate the Partnership. Upon the death or incapacity of an individual Limited Partner, such individual Limited Partner's interest in the Partnership shall be transferred either by will, the laws of intestacy or otherwise to the legal representative or successor of such individual Limited Partner.
Death, Legal Incompetency, Etc. of a Limited Partner
15. . Each Limited Partner hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints the Chief Executive Officer of the General Partner with full power of substitution, its true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead and for his use and benefit, to sign, swear to, acknowledge, file and record:
Power of Attorney
(i) this Agreement, and subject to Section 16 below, amendments to this Agreement;
(ii) any certificates, instruments and documents (including assumed and fictitious name certificates) as may be required by, or may be appropriate under, the laws of the State of Illinois or any other State or jurisdiction in which the Partnership is doing or intends to do business, in order to discharge the purposes of the Partnership or otherwise in connection with the use of the name or names used by the Partnership;
(iii) any other instrument which may be required to be filed or recorded by the Partnership on behalf of the Partners under the laws of any State or by any governmental agency in order for the Partnership to conduct its business;
(iv) any documents which may be required to effect the continuation of the Partnership, the admission of a substitute or additional Partner, or the dissolution and termination of the Partnership, provided such continuation, admission or dissolution and termination is not in violation of any provision of this Agreement; and
(v) any documents which may be required or desirable to have the General Partner appointed, and act as, the "Tax Matters Partner" as described in the Code.
The foregoing grant of authority is a special power of attorney coupled with an interest, is irrevocable and shall survive the death or incapacity of any individual Limited Partner, and shall survive the delivery of any assignment by a Limited Partner of the whole or any portion of his interest in the Partnership.
16. .
Amendment of Agreement
A. Each Partner, by his execution of or joinder in this Agreement, hereby irrevocably appoints the Chairman of the Board of the General Partner (or the Co-Chairmen acting together if there be more than one) with power of substitution, as his true and lawful attorney coupled with an interest, in his name, place and stead to amend this Agreement in any respect other than:
(i) to enlarge the obligation of any Partner to make contributions to the capital of the Partnership, as provided for in Section 3 above; or
 
(ii) except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement or as required by law, to modify the allocation of Net Profits or Net Losses or distributions among the Partners as provided for in Section 7 and 8 above, respectively; or
(iii) to amend Sections 1, 3.2, 9.2, or 12; or
(iv) to amend this Section 16.
B. With respect to amendments regarding Sections 16(A)(ii) or 16(A)(iii), this Agreement may be amended with the written consent of the Company, the Zell Partners, and the Starwood Partners or their respective successors in interest, as applicable, so long as they shall remain Partners and those Limited Partners holding not less than 67% of the aggregate of Percentage Interests held by all Limited Partners.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms and conditions of a particular series of Preference Units may not be changed without the written consent of the holders of at least 67% of the Preference Units within the class or series (or such greater percentage as may be provided for in the applicable Preference Unit Term Sheet or Other Securities Term Sheet, as the case may be).
C. With respect to amendments regarding Sections 16(A)(i) or (iv), this Agreement may be amended only with the written consent of all Partners.
In the event this Agreement shall be amended pursuant to this Section 16, the General Partner shall cause this Agreement to be amended to reflect the amendment.
17. .
Miscellaneous
17.1 . Any notice, election or other communication provided for or required by this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when delivered by hand or by telecopy or other facsimile transmission, the first business day after sent by overnight courier (such as Federal Express), or on the second business day after deposit in the United States Mail, certified or registered, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, properly addressed to the Partner to whom such notice is intended to be given at the address for the Partner set forth on the signature pages of this Agreement, or at such other address as such person may have previously furnished in writing to the Partnership and each Partner.
Notices
17.2 . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no change or modification of this Agreement, nor any waiver of any term or condition in the future, shall be valid or binding upon the Partners unless such change or modification shall be in writing and signed or consented to by all of the Partners necessary to effect such change, modification or waiver.
Modifications
17.3 . Any person acquiring or claiming an interest in the Partnership, in any manner whatsoever, shall be subject to and bound by all of the terms, conditions and obligations of this Agreement to which his predecessor-in-interest was subject or bound, without regard to whether such a person has executed a counterpart hereof or any other document contemplated
Successors and Assigns
 
hereby. No person, including the legal representative, heir or legatee of a deceased Partner, shall have any rights or obligations greater than those set forth in this Agreement, and no person shall acquire an interest in the Partnership or become a Partner thereof except as expressly permitted by and pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. Subject to the foregoing, and the provisions of Section 12 above, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Partners and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, legal representatives, executors and administrators. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the special voting and consent privileges granted to the Zell Partners and the Starwood Partners contained in Article 16 shall be limited to the Zell Partners and the Starwood Partners for such time as they remain Partners and any Person acquiring Units as a result of the exercise of remedies by a pledgee of Units held by such Partner and shall not be transferred to each Partners' respective successor-in-interest.
17.4 . For the convenience of the Partners, any number of counterparts hereof may be executed, and each such counterpart shall be deemed to be an original instrument, and all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement.
Duplicate Originals
17.5 . The titles of the Sections and subsections herein have been inserted as a matter of convenience of reference only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the terms or provisions herein.
Construction
17.6 . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Illinois. Except to the extent the Act is inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of such Act shall apply to the Partnership.
Governing Law
17.7 . The parties hereto covenant and agree that they will execute such other and further instruments and documents as, in the opinion of the General Partner, are or may become necessary or desirable to effectuate and carry out the Partnership as provided for by this Agreement.
Other Instruments
17.8 . If the General Partner ever has an interest as a Limited Partner in the Partnership, the General Partner shall, with respect to such interest, enjoy all of the rights and be subject to all of the obligations and duties of a Limited Partner.
General Partner with Interest as Limited Partner
17.9 . In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision hereof and this Agreement shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.
Legal Construction
17.10 . Whenever the context shall so require, all words herein in any gender shall be deemed to include the masculine, feminine or neuter gender, all singular words shall include the plural, and all plural words shall include the singular.
Gender
17.11 . Except for joinders, term sheets and/or addendums that have been made or will be made and are deemed to be incorporated by reference herein and made a part hereof, this Agreement supersedes any prior understandings or written or oral agreements amongst the parties, or any of them, respecting the within subject matter and contains the entire understanding amongst the parties with respect thereto.
Prior Agreements Superseded
17.12 . The terms and provisions of this Agreement are for the exclusive use and benefit of General Partner and the Limited Partners and shall not inure to the benefit of any other person or entity.
No Third Party Beneficiary
 
17.13 . Each Partner represents, warrants and agrees that it has acquired and continues to hold its interest in the Partnership for its own account for investment only and not for the purpose of, or with a view toward, the resale or distribution of all or any part thereof, nor with a view toward selling or otherwise distributing such interest or any part thereof at any particular time or under any predetermined circumstances. Each Partner further represents and warrants that it is a sophisticated investor, able and accustomed to handling sophisticated financial matters for itself, particularly real estate investments, and that it has a sufficiently high net worth that it does not anticipate a need for the funds it has invested in the Partnership in what it understands to be a highly speculative and illiquid investment.
Purchase for Investment
17.14 . No consent or waiver, express or implied, by any Partner to or of any breach or default by any other Partner in the performance by such other Partner of its obligations hereunder shall be deemed or construed to be a consent to or waiver of any other breach or default in the performance by such other Partner of the same or any other obligations of such Partner hereunder. Failure on the part of any Partner to complain of any act or failure to act on the part of any other Partner or to declare any other Partner in default, irrespective of how long such failure continues, shall not constitute a waiver by such Partner of its rights hereunder.
Waiver
17.15 . Time is hereby expressly made of the essence with respect to the performance by the parties of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
Time of Essence
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the General Partner (on behalf of itself and as attorney-in-fact for the Limited Partners pursuant to Section 16 hereof) has executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
LIMITED PARTNER
515 Lake-Two Lakes General Partnership
E-BS Associates
E-FH-One, Inc.
E-FH-Two , Inc.
E-FH-Three, Inc.
E-G-Three Associates
E-QR Associates
E-SD Associates
E-V-One Associates
E-V-Two Associates
E-V-Three Associates
FC Partnership, Ltd.
FU Associates
Hidden Valley Joint Venture
Mallgate Investors
Maxwell Apartments Limited Partnership
SE Continental Villas Limited Partnership
SE Governor's Place Associates Limited Partnership
SE Plantation Limited Partnership
Southeastern Properties Associates
Arlington-Temple Terrace General Partnership
The Lakes, Ltd.
Valley Park South Apartments Investors
E-Chaparral, Inc.
E-Stonebrook, Inc.
E-G-One, Inc.
E-G-Two, Inc.
E-Lodge, Inc.
First Capital Grave Dancer I
Equity Financial Investment Company
Equity Properties Management Corp.
LIMITED PARTNER
 

Exhibit 10.2
THIS CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into as of March 13, 2009 by and between Equity Residential, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the "Company"), and Mark J. Parrell (the "Executive").
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of the Company (the "Board") recognizes that the possibility of a Change in Control (as hereinafter defined) exists or may exist in the future and that the threat or the occurrence of a Change in Control can result in significant distractions of its key management personnel because of the uncertainties inherent in such a situation;
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is essential and in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to retain the services of the Executive in the event of a threat or occurrence of a Change in Control and to ensure his continued dedication and efforts in such event without undue concern for his personal financial and employment security; and
WHEREAS, in order to induce the Executive to remain in the employ of the Company and/or an affiliate of the Company, particularly in the event of a threat or the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Company desires to enter into this Agreement with the Executive to provide the Executive with certain benefits in the event his employment is terminated as a result of, or in connection with, a Change in Control and to provide the Executive with certain other benefits whether or not the Executive's employment is terminated.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the respective agreements of the parties contained herein and other good and valuation consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, it is agreed as follows:
1. . This Agreement shall commence as of the date hereof and shall continue in effect until the date the Executive's employment is terminated; provided, however, that if the Executive's employment is terminated following, or in anticipation of, a Change in Control, the term shall continue in effect until all payments and benefits have been made or provided to the Executive hereunder.
Term of Agreement
2.
Definitions
2.1 . For purposes of this Agreement, "Accrued Compensation" shall mean an amount which shall include all amounts earned or accrued through the "Termination Date" (as hereinafter defined) but not paid as of the Termination Date including: (i) base salary, (ii) reimbursement for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by the Executive on behalf of the Company during the period ending on the Termination Date, (iii) vacation and sick leave pay (to the extent provided by Company policy or applicable law), (iv) 100% of any target cash bonus and target long-term compensation award with respect to the Company's fiscal year ended prior to the Termination Date; and (v) any other amounts or benefits required to be paid by law.
Accrued Compensation
2.2 . For purposes of this Agreement, "Base Amount" shall mean the greater of (a) the Executive's annual base salary, at the rate in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control and (b) the Executive's annual base salary, at the rate in effect on the Termination Date.
Base Amount
2.3 . For purposes of this Agreement, "Bonus Amount" shall mean the average of the annual cash bonuses paid to the Executive (including amounts that would have been paid if they had not been deferred) under the Company's annual incentive cash bonus plan for the three years immediately preceding the year in which the Executive's employment terminates, or for such shorter period that the Executive has been employed by the Company. If the Executive's employment is terminated in the Executive's first year of employment, "Bonus Amount" shall mean 100% of the target bonus that the Executive would have been eligible to receive for such year.
Bonus Amount
2.4 . For purposes of this Agreement, a termination of employment is for "Cause" if the Executive has been convicted of a felony involving fraud or dishonesty or the termination is evidenced by a resolution adopted in good faith by at least two-thirds of the Board that the Executive: (i) intentionally and continually failed substantially to perform his reasonably assigned duties with the Company (other than a failure resulting from the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness or from the Executive's assignment of duties that would constitute "Good Reason" as hereinafter defined) which failure continued for a period of at least thirty (30) days after a written notice of demand for substantial performance has been delivered to the Executive specifying the manner in which the Executive has failed substantially to perform or (ii) intentionally engaged in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company; , , that no termination of the Executive's employment shall be for Cause as set forth in clause (ii) above until (x) there shall have been delivered to the Executive a copy of a written notice setting forth that the Executive was guilty of the conduct set forth in clause (ii) and specifying the particulars thereof in detail and (y) the Executive shall have been provided an opportunity to be heard in person by the Board (with the assistance of the Executive's counsel if the Executive so desires). Neither an act nor a failure to act, on the Executive's part shall be considered "intentional" unless the Executive has acted or failed to act with a lack of good faith and with a lack of reasonable belief that the Executive's action or failure to act was in the best interest of the Company. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, no failure to perform by the Executive after a Notice of Termination (as defined in Section 2.9) is given by the Executive shall constitute Cause for purposes of this Agreement.
Cause
provided
however
2.5 . For purposes of this Agreement, a "Change in Control" shall mean any of the following events:
Change in Control
(a) An acquisition (other than directly from the Company) of any voting securities of the Company (the "Voting Securities") by any "Person" (as the term person is used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act")), immediately after which such Person has "Beneficial Ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) of 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities; , , that in determining whether a Change in Control has occurred, Voting Securities which are acquired in a "Non-Control Acquisition" (as hereinafter defined) shall not constitute an acquisition which would cause a Change in Control. A "Non-Control Acquisition" shall mean an acquisition by (i) an employee benefit plan (or a trust forming a part thereof) maintained by (x) the Company or (y) any corporation or other Person of which a majority of its voting power or its equity securities
provided
however
 
or equity interest is owned directly or indirectly by the Company (a "Subsidiary"), (ii) the Company or any Subsidiary or (iii) any Person in connection with a "Non-Control Transaction" (as hereinafter defined).
(b) Approval by stockholders of the Company of:
(i) A merger, consolidation or reorganization involving the Company, unless:
(A) the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such merger, consolidation or reorganization, own, directly or indirectly, immediately following such merger, consolidation or reorganization, at least seventy percent (70%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities of the corporation or other entity resulting from such merger or consolidation or reorganization (the "Surviving Corporation") in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Voting Securities immediately before such merger, consolidation or reorganization; and
(B) the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such merger, consolidation or reorganization constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors or similar governing body of the Surviving Corporation or a corporation or other entity beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, a majority of the Voting Securities of the Surviving Corporation.
(A transaction described in clauses (A) and (B) shall herein be referred to as a "Non-Control Transaction.");
(ii) A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or
(iii) An agreement for the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to any Person (other than to an entity of which the Company directly or indirectly owns at least 70% of the voting shares).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the outstanding Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Voting Securities outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then outstanding Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall occur.
(c) The rejection by the voting Beneficial Owners of the outstanding Shares of the entire slate of trustees that the Board proposes at a single election of trustees; or
 
(d) The rejection by the voting Beneficial Owners of the outstanding Shares of one-half or more of the trustees that the Board proposes over any two or more consecutive elections of trustees.
(e) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Executive's employment is terminated prior to a Change in Control and the Executive reasonably demonstrates that such termination: (i) was at the request of a third party who has indicated an intention or taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control and who effectuates a Change in Control (a "Third Party") or (ii) otherwise occurred in connection with, or in anticipation of, a Change in Control which actually occurs, then for all purposes of this Agreement, the date of a Change in Control with respect to the Executive shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such termination of the Executive's employment.
2.6 . For purposes of this Agreement, the "Company" shall include the Company's "Successors and Assigns" (as hereinafter defined).
Company
2.7 . For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" shall mean a physical or mental infirmity that entitles the Executive to benefits under the Company sponsored long-term disability plan in which he or she participates.
Disability
2.8 .
Good Reason
(a) For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" shall mean the occurrence after a Change in Control of any of the events or conditions described in subsections (i) through (viii) hereof:
(i) a change in the Executive's status, position or responsibilities (including reporting responsibilities) which, in the Executive's reasonable judgment, represents a substantial adverse change from his status, position or responsibilities as in effect at any time within 180 days preceding the date of a Change in Control or at any time thereafter; the assignment to the Executive of any duties or responsibilities which, in the Executive's reasonable judgment, are inconsistent with his status, title, position or responsibilities as in effect at any time within 180 days preceding the date of a Change of Control or at any time thereafter; or any removal of the Executive from or failure to reappoint or reelect him to any of such offices or positions held prior to the Change of Control, except in connection with the termination of his employment for Disability, Cause, as a result of his death or by the Executive other than for Good Reason;
(ii) a reduction in the Executive's base salary or any failure to pay the Executive any compensation or benefits to which he is entitled within five days of written notice thereof;
(iii) the Company's requiring the Executive to be based at any place outside a 30-mile radius from the Executive's principal location of business prior to the Change in Control, except for reasonably required travel on the Company's business which is not materially greater than such travel requirements prior to the Change in Control;
(iv) the failure by the Company to provide the Executive with compensation and benefits, in the aggregate, at least equal (in terms of benefit
 
levels and/or reward opportunities which opportunities will be evaluated in light of the performance requirements therefor) to those provided for under each other employee compensation and benefit plan, program and practice in which the Executive was participating at any time within 180 days preceding the date of a Change in Control or at any time thereafter;
(v) the insolvency or the filing (by any party, including the Company) of a petition for bankruptcy of the Company, which petition is not dismissed within sixty (60) days;
(vi) any material breach by the Company of any provision of this Agreement;
(vii) any purported termination of the Executive's employment for Cause by the Company which does not comply with the terms of Section 2.4; or
(viii) the failure of the Company to obtain an agreement, satisfactory to the Executive, from any Successors and Assigns to assume and agree to perform this Agreement, as contemplated in Section 6 hereof.
(b) Any event or condition described in Section 2.8(a)(i) through (viii) which occurs prior to a Change in Control but which the Executive reasonably demonstrates (i) was at the request of a Third Party or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with, or in anticipation of, a Change in Control which actually occurs, shall constitute Good Reason for purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding that it occurred prior to the Change in Control.
(c) The Executive's right to terminate his employment pursuant to this Section 2.8 shall not be affected by his incapacity due to a Disability.
2.9. . For purposes of this Agreement, following a Change in Control, "Notice of Termination" shall mean a written notice of termination from the Company of the Executive's employment which indicates a specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and which sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated.
Notice of Termination
2.10. . For purposes of this Agreement, "Pro Rata Bonus/LTC Award" shall mean an amount equal to 100% of the Executive's target bonus and target long-term compensation that the Executive would have been eligible to receive for the Company's fiscal year in which the Executive's employment terminates, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in such fiscal year through the Termination Date and the denominator of which is 365.
Pro Rata Bonus/LTC Award
2.11. . For purposes of this Agreement, "Successors and Assigns" shall mean a corporation or other entity acquiring all or substantially all the Voting Securities, assets or business of the Company whether by operation of law or otherwise, and any affiliate of such Successors and Assigns.
Successors and Assigns
2.12. . For purposes of this Agreement, "Termination Date" shall mean: (a) in the case of the Executive's death, his date of death, (b) in the case of Good Reason, the last day of his employment and (c) in all other cases, the date specified in the Notice of Termination or if no Notice of Termination is sent, the last day of his employment;
Termination Date
 
, , that if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company due to Disability, the date specified in the Notice of Termination shall be the 30
provided
however
th
day after receipt of the Notice of Termination by the Executive, provided that the Executive shall not have returned to the full-time performance of his duties within 30 days after such receipt.
3. . If the Executive's employment with the Company shall be terminated within thirty-six (36) months following a Change in Control, the Executive shall be entitled to the following compensation and benefits:
Termination of Employment
(a) If the Executive's employment with the Company shall be terminated (i) by the Company for Cause or Disability, (ii) by reason of the Executive's death or (iii) by the Executive other than for Good Reason, the Company shall pay to the Executive the Accrued Compensation, and, unless such termination was by the Company for Cause or such termination was by the employee voluntarily without Good Reason, the Pro-Rata Bonus/LTC Award; , , if an employment agreement is in existence between the Company and/or any of its affiliates and the Executive on the Termination Date, the Company and/or its affiliates, as the case may be, shall also pay to the Executive any amounts owed to the Executive pursuant to such employment agreement.
provided
however
(b) If the Executive's employment with the Company shall be terminated for any reason other than as specified in Section 3(a), the Executive shall be entitled to the following:
(i) the Company shall pay the Executive the Accrued Compensation and a Pro-Rata Bonus/LTC Award;
(ii) the Company shall pay the Executive as severance pay and in lieu of any further compensation for periods subsequent to the Termination Date, in a single payment an amount in cash equal to 2.25 times the sum of (A) the Base Amount and (B) the Bonus Amount; , , if an employment agreement is in existence between the Company and/or any of its affiliates and the Executive on the Termination Date, any amount due the Executive under this Section 3(b)(ii) shall be reduced by the amount of Base Amount and Bonus Amount paid as severance pay to Executive pursuant to such employment agreement in lieu of compensation for periods subsequent to the Termination Date.
provided
however
(iii) for 27 months following the Termination Date, (the "Continuation Period"), the Company shall at its expense continue on behalf of the Executive and his dependents and beneficiaries the same medical, dental, life, disability and hospitalization benefits provided (A) to the Executive at any time during the 90-day period prior to the Change in Control or at any time thereafter (and if different benefits were paid during such period, such of those benefits as are elected by the Executive) or (B) to other similarly situated executives who continue in the employ of the Company during the Continuation Period. The coverage and benefits (including deductibles and costs) provided in this Section 3(b)(iii) during the Continuation Period shall be no less favorable to the Executive and his dependents and beneficiaries than the most favorable of such coverages and benefits during any of the periods referred to in clauses (A) and (B) above. The Company's obligation hereunder with respect to the foregoing benefits shall be limited to the extent that the Executive obtains any such benefits pursuant to a
 
subsequent employer's benefit plans, in which case the Company may reduce the coverage of any benefits it is required to provide the Executive hereunder as long as the aggregate coverages and benefits of the combined benefits plans is no less favorable to the Executive than the coverages and benefits required to be provided hereunder. This subsection (iii) shall not be interpreted so as to limit any benefits to which the Executive, his dependents or beneficiaries may be otherwise entitled under any of the Company's employee benefit plans, programs or practices following the Executive's termination of employment, including without limitation, retiree medical and life insurance benefits;
(iv) all theretofore unvested stock options, restricted options, restricted stock and performances shares, phantom share awards, share appreciation rights, dividend equivalents and any other awards issued to the Executive pursuant to the Company's Share Option and Share Award Plan, as amended or replaced time to time, and all unvested benefits under any split dollar life insurance policies insuring the Executive's life shall immediately vest at the maximum possible amount; and
(v) a payment from the Company equal to the unvested amount contained in the Executive's accounts in the Company's 401(k) plan (or any other qualified plan of the Company or an affiliate) which he will forfeit as a result of such termination.
(c) The amounts provided for in Sections 3(a) and 3(b)(i) and (ii) shall be paid in a single lump sum cash payment in immediately available funds within five (5) days following the expiration of any required waiting period under the release agreement referenced in Section 12 hereof (or earlier, if required by applicable law).
(d) The Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise and no such payment shall be offset or reduced by the amount of any compensation or benefits provided to the Executive in any subsequent employment except as provided in Section 3(b)(iii).
(e) The Executive's entitlement to any other compensation or benefits or any indemnification shall be determined in accordance with the Company's employee benefit plans and other applicable programs, policies and practices or any indemnification agreement in effect.
4. . Following a Change in Control, any purported termination of the Executive's employment by the Company shall be communicated by Notice of Termination to the Executive. For purposes of this Agreement, no such purported termination shall be effective without such Notice of Termination.
Notice of Termination
5. .
Excise Tax Gross-Up
(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event it is determined (pursuant to (b) below) or finally determined (as defined in (c)(iii) below) that any payment, distribution, transfer, benefit or other event with respect to the Company or its predecessors, successors, direct or indirect subsidiaries or affiliates (or any predecessor, successor or affiliate of any of them, and including any benefit plan of any of them), to or for the benefit of Executive or Executive's dependents, heirs or beneficiaries (whether such payment,
 
distribution, transfer, benefit or other event occurs pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 5) (each a "Payment" and collectively the "Payments") is or was subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any successor provision or any comparable provision of state or local income tax law (collectively, "Section 4999"), or any interest, penalty or addition to tax is or was incurred by Executive with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest, penalty or addition to tax, hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then, within 10 days after such determination or final determination, as the case may be, the Company shall pay to Executive an additional cash payment (hereinafter referred to as the "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that after payment by Executive of all taxes, interest, penalties and additions to tax imposed with respect to the Gross-Up Payment (including, without limitation, any income and excise taxes imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment), Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon such Payment or Payments. This provision is intended to put Executive in the same position as Executive would have been had no Excise Tax been imposed upon or incurred as a result of any Payment.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) below, the determination that a Payment is subject to an Excise Tax shall be made in writing by a certified public accounting firm selected by Executive ("Executive's Accountant"). Such determination shall include the amount of the Gross-Up Payment and detailed computations thereof, including any assumptions used in such computations (the written determination of the Executive's Accountant, hereinafter, the "Executive's Determination"). The Executive's Determination shall be reviewed on behalf of the Company by a certified public accounting firm selected by the Company (the "Company's Accountant"). The Company shall notify Executive within 10 business days after receipt of the Executive's Determination of any disagreement or dispute therewith, and failure to so notify within that period shall be considered an agreement by the Company with the Executive's Determination, obligating the Company to make payment as provided in subsection (a) above within 10 days from the expiration of such 10 business-day period. In the event of an objection by the Company to the Executive's Determination, any amount not in dispute shall be paid within 10 days following the 10 business-day period referred to herein, and with respect to the amount in dispute the Executive's Accountant and the Company's Accountant shall jointly select a third nationally recognized certified public accounting firm to resolve the dispute and the decision of such third firm shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Executive and the Company. In such a case, the third accounting firm's findings shall be deemed the binding determination with respect to the amount in dispute, obligating the Company to make any payment as a result thereof within 10 days following the receipt of such third accounting firm's determination. All fees and expenses of each of the accounting firms referred to in this Section 5 shall be borne solely by the Company.
 
 
(A) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim;
(B) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney selected by the Company that is reasonably acceptable to Executive;
(C) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim; and
(D) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all attorneys fees, costs and expenses (including additional interest, penalties and additions to tax) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for all taxes (including, without limitation, income and excise taxes), interest, penalties and additions to tax imposed in relation to such claim and in relation to the payment of such costs and expenses or indemnification. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Section 5, and to the extent its actions do not unreasonably interfere with or prejudice Executive's disputes with the Taxing Authority as to other issues, the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct Executive to pay the tax, interest or penalties claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that if the Company directs Executive to pay such claim and sue for a refund, the Company shall advance an amount equal to such payment to Executive, on an interest-free basis, and shall indemnify and hold Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from all taxes (including, without limitation, income and excise taxes), interest, penalties and additions to tax imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance; and, further, provided, that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes, interest, penalties or additions to tax for the taxable year of Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount; and, provided, further, that any settlement of any claim shall be reasonably acceptable to Executive and the Company's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder, and Executive shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue.
 
(ii) If, after receipt by Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 5(c)(i), Executive receives any refund with respect to such claim, Executive shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of Section 5) promptly pay to the Company an amount equal to such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto), net of any taxes (including without limitation any income or excise taxes), interest, penalties or additions to tax and any other costs incurred by Executive in connection with such advance, after giving effect to such repayment. If, after the receipt by Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 5(c)(i), it is finally determined that Executive is not entitled to any refund with respect to such claim, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall be treated as a Gross-Up Payment and shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of any Gross-Up Payment otherwise required to be paid.
(iii) For purposes of this Section 5, whether the Excise Tax is applicable to a Payment shall be deemed to be "finally determined" upon the earliest of: (A) the expiration of the 15-day period referred to in paragraph (c)(i) above if the Company has not notified Executive that it intends to contest the underlying claim, (B) the expiration of any period following which no right of appeal exists, (C) the date upon which a closing agreement or similar agreement with respect to the claim is executed by Executive and the Taxing Authority (which agreement may be executed only in compliance with this Section 5), (D) the receipt by Executive of notice from the Company that it no longer seeks to pursue a contest (which notice shall be deemed received if the Company does not, within 15 days following receipt of a written inquiry from Executive, affirmatively indicate in writing to Executive that the Company intends to continue to pursue such contest).
 
 
6. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Company, its Successors and Assigns, and the Company shall require any Successors and Assigns to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession or assignment had taken place. Neither this Agreement nor any right or interest hereunder shall be assignable or transferable by the Executive, his beneficiaries or legal representatives, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal personal representative.
Successors; Binding Agreement
7. . The Company shall pay all legal fees and related expenses (including the costs of experts, evidence and counsel) incurred by the Executive as a result of the Executive obtaining or enforcing any right or benefit provided by this Agreement. Furthermore, any amounts due Executive by the Company that are not paid when due under this Agreement shall bear interest at the Prime Rate (as declared by Bank of America, N.A. from time to time) plus 5% from the time when the payment is due until the date the payment is made.
Fees and Expenses
8. . For the purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in the Agreement (including the Notice of Termination) shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, by overnight courier or by facsimile, addressed to the respective addresses and facsimile numbers last given by each party to the other, provided that all notices to the Company shall be directed to the attention of the Chairman of the Board with a copy to the Secretary of the Company. All notices and communications shall be deemed to have been received on the date of delivery thereof or on the third business day after the mailing thereof, except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
Notice
9. . Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plan or program provided by the Company (except for any severance or termination policies, plans, programs or practices) and for which the Executive may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or reduce such rights as the Executive may have under any other agreements with the Company (except for any severance or termination agreement). Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan or program of the Company shall be payable in accordance with such plan or program, except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
10. . The Executive and the Company acknowledge that, except as may otherwise be provided under any other written agreement between the Executive and the Company, the employment of the Executive by the Company is "at will" and may be terminated by either the Executive or the Company at any time, subject, however to the rights of the Executive provided herein in the event of any such termination.
No Guaranteed Employment
11. . The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Company may have against the Executive or others.
Settlement of Claims
 
12. . As a condition to receiving the payments and benefits hereunder, the Executive shall execute a document in customary form, releasing and waiving any and all claims, causes of actions and the like against the Company and its successors, shareholders, officers, trustees, agents and employees, regarding all matters relating to the Executive's service as an employee of the Company or any affiliates and the termination of such relationship. Such claims , any claims arising under Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended; Title VIII of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended; the Corporate and Criminal Fraud Accountability Act of 2002, as amended; Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended; the Civil Rights Act of 1991, as amended; the Equal Pay Act of 1962; the American Disabilities Act of 1990; the Family Medical Leave Act, as amended; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended; or any other federal, state or local statute or ordinance, any claims that arise out of an asserted breach of the terms of this Agreement and any benefits payable to the Executive under the Company's benefit plans, practices and programs in which he participates.
Full Satisfaction; Waiver and Release
include, without limitation
but exclude
13. . No provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by the Executive and the Company. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provisions of this Agreement to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. No agreement or representations, oral or otherwise, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement.
Miscellaneous
14. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof. Any action brought by any party to this Agreement shall be brought and maintained in a court of competent jurisdiction in Cook County in the State of Illinois.
Governing Law
15. . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions hereof.
Severability
16. . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto and supersedes all prior agreements, if any, understandings and arrangements, oral or written, between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer and the Executive has executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 


