FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20110427185627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): April 27, 2011
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(312) 474-1300
Not applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 27, 2011, Equity Residential issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition as of March 31, 2011 and for the quarter then ended.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  The information contained in this report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission nor incorporated by reference in any registration statement filed by Equity Residential under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Equity Residential Reports First Quarter 2011 Results
Same Store Revenues Increase 4.0%
CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 27, 2011--Equity Residential (NYSE: EQR) today reported results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. All per share results are reported on a fully-diluted basis.
"As expected, fundamentals continued to improve across all of our markets during the first quarter. With high occupancy and low net exposure heading into our primary leasing season, 2011 should produce solid growth in operations, said David J. Neithercut, Equity Residentials President and CEO. We currently expect to achieve same store growth in net operating income in the upper half of our guidance range. However, we have accelerated the disposition pace of non-core assets as a result of the strong demand for apartment properties and sold more than $500 million of assets in April. The incremental dilution from this accelerated activity will likely keep Normalized FFO for the year near the mid-point of our guidance.
First Quarter 2011
FFO (Funds from Operations), as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT), for the first quarter of 2011 was $0.56 per share compared to $0.49 per share in the first quarter of 2010.
For the first quarter of 2011, the company reported Normalized FFO of $0.56 per share compared to $0.51 per share for the same period of 2010. The difference is due primarily to:
A positive impact of approximately $0.06 per share from higher property net operating income (NOI) from the companys same store portfolio;
A positive impact of approximately $0.04 per share of NOI from lease-up activity and other non-same store property operations;
A negative impact of approximately $0.02 per share from higher debt costs, excluding debt extinguishment costs; and
A negative impact of approximately $0.03 per share due to dilution from share issuance to fund investment activity and various other items.
The company reports Normalized FFO in order to more accurately reflect the companys operating performance. Normalized FFO begins with FFO and eliminates certain items that by their nature are not comparable from period to period or that tend to obscure the companys actual operating performance. A reconciliation and definition of Normalized FFO are provided on pages 5 and 24 of this release and the company has included guidance for Normalized FFO on page 23 of this release.
For the first quarter of 2011, the company reported earnings of $0.42 per share compared to $0.18 per share in the first quarter of 2010. The difference is due primarily to higher gains from property sales in 2011.
Same Store Results
On a same store first quarter to first quarter comparison, which includes 112,363 apartment units, revenues increased 4.0%, expenses decreased 1.0% and NOI increased 7.3%.
Acquisitions/Dispositions
During the first quarter of 2011, the company acquired two apartment properties with a total of 521 apartment units for an aggregate purchase price of $139.0 million at a weighted average capitalization (cap) rate of 5.7%. The company also acquired a 97,000 square foot commercial building adjacent to its Harbor Steps apartment property in downtown Seattle, at a purchase price of $11.8 million, for potential redevelopment.
During the quarter, the company sold 12 consolidated properties, consisting of 2,731 apartment units, for an aggregate sale price of $261.8 million at a weighted average cap rate of 6.7% generating an unlevered internal rate of return (IRR), inclusive of management costs, of 10.8%.
At-The-Market (ATM) Share Offering Program
During the first quarter of 2011, the company issued approximately 3.0 million common shares at an average price of $50.84 per share for total consideration of approximately $154.5 million. The company has not issued any shares under this program since January 13, 2011 and currently has 10 million shares available for future issuance under this program. The company will use the proceeds from share sales primarily to fund its investment activity, including development, and to fund debt repayment.
Second Quarter 2011 Guidance
The company has established a Normalized FFO guidance range of $0.57 to $0.61 per share for the second quarter of 2011. The difference between the companys first quarter 2011 Normalized FFO of $0.56 per share and the midpoint of the second quarter guidance range of $0.59 per share is primarily due to:
A positive impact of approximately $0.04 per share from higher same store and lease-up property NOI in the second quarter of 2011;
A positive impact of approximately $0.02 per share from lower debt costs and various other items; and
A negative impact of approximately $0.03 per share from dilution from 2011 transaction activity.
Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call
Equity Residential expects to announce second quarter 2011 results on Wednesday, July 27, 2011 and host a conference call to discuss those results at 10:00 a.m. CT on Thursday, July 28, 2011.
Equity Residential is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of high quality apartment properties in top U.S. growth markets. Equity Residential owns or has investments in 442 properties located in 17 states and the District of Columbia, consisting of 127,711 apartment units. For more information on Equity Residential, please visit our website at .
www.equityapartments.com
Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to historical information, this press release contains forward-looking statements and information within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions made by management. While Equity Residentials management believes the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, such information is inherently subject to uncertainties and may involve certain risks, including, without limitation, changes in general market conditions, including the rate of job growth and cost of labor and construction material, the level of new multifamily construction and development, competition and local government regulation. Other risks and uncertainties are described under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and available on our website, . Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond managements control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events. Equity Residential assumes no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
www.equityapartments.com
A live web cast of the companys conference call discussing these results will take place tomorrow, Thursday, April 28, at 10:00 a.m. Central.
Please visit the Investor Information section of the companys web site at for the link.
www.equityapartments.com
A replay of the web cast will be available for two weeks at this site.
(1) Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the month of March 2011.
(2) All Other Markets - Each individual market is less than 2.0% of stabilized NOI.
Note: Projects under development are not included in the Portfolio Summary until construction has been completed, at which time they are included at their projected stabilized NOI.
(1) Represents the acquisition of a 97,000 square foot commercial building adjacent to our Harbor Steps apartment property in downtown Seattle for potential redevelopment.
(1) The Company's primary financial measure for evaluating each of its apartment communities is net operating income ("NOI"). NOI represents rental income less property and maintenance expense, real estate tax and insurance expense and property management expense. The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of its operating performance because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Company's apartment communities. See page 24 for reconciliations from operating income.
(2) Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the period.
(1) Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the period.
(1) Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the period.
(1) On-site payroll - Includes payroll and related expenses for on-site personnel including property managers, leasing consultants and maintenance staff.
(2) Utilities - Represents gross expenses prior to any recoveries under the Resident Utility Billing System ("RUBS"). Recoveries are reflected in rental income.
(3) Repairs and maintenance - Includes general maintenance costs, apartment unit turnover costs including interior painting, routine landscaping, security, exterminating, fire protection, snow removal, elevator, roof and parking lot repairs and other miscellaneous building repair costs.
(4) Property management costs - Includes payroll and related expenses for departments, or portions of departments, that directly support on-site management. These include such departments as regional and corporate property management, property accounting, human resources, training, marketing and revenue management, procurement, real estate tax, property legal services and information technology.
(5) Other on-site operating expenses - Includes administrative costs such as office supplies, telephone and data charges and association and business licensing fees.
(1) Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.
Note: The Company capitalized interest of approximately $1.7 million and $4.4 million during the quarters ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
(1) Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are as of March 31, 2011.
(2) Includes $482.5 million face value of 3.85% convertible unsecured debt with a final maturity of 2026. The notes are callable by the Company on or after August 18, 2011. The notes are putable by the holders on August 18, 2011, August 15, 2016 and August 15, 2021.
(3) Effective April 5, 2011, the Company exercised the second of its two one-year extension options for its $500.0 million term loan facility and as a result, the maturity date is now October 5, 2012.
(1) Fair value interest rate swaps convert $300.0 million of the 5.200% notes due April 1, 2013 to a floating interest rate.
(2) Convertible notes mature on August 15, 2026. The notes are callable by the Company on or after August 18, 2011. The notes are putable by the holders on August 18, 2011, August 15, 2016 and August 15, 2021.
(3) Facilities are private. All other unsecured debt is public.
(4) Effective April 5, 2011, the Company exercised the second of its two one-year extension options for its $500.0 million term loan facility and as a result, the maturity date is now October 5, 2012.
(5) As of March 31, 2011, there was approximately $1.34 billion available on the Company's unsecured revolving credit facility.
These selected covenants relate to ERP Operating Limited Partnership's ("ERPOP") outstanding unsecured public debt. Equity Residential is the general partner of ERPOP.
(1) Potential common shares issuable from the assumed conversion of OP Units and the exercise/vesting of long-term compensation award shares/units are automatically anti-dilutive and therefore excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation as the Company had a loss from continuing operations for the first quarter ended March 31, 2010.
(1) Project and apartment unit counts exclude all uncompleted development projects until those projects are substantially completed.
(2) All debt is non-recourse to the Company with the exception of $14.0 million in mortgage debt on one development project.
(3) Represents the Company's current economic ownership interest.
(4) Projects included here are substantially complete. However, they may still require additional exterior and interior work for all apartment units to be available for leasing.
Note: In 2010, the Company admitted an 80% institutional partner to an entity owning a developable land parcel in Florida in exchange for $11.7 million in cash and retained a 20% equity interest. This land parcel is now unconsolidated. Total project cost is approximately $76.1 million and construction is expected to start in the second quarter of 2011. The Company is responsible for constructing the project and has given certain construction cost overrun guarantees. The Company's remaining funding obligation is currently estimated at approximately $2.3 million.
(1) Total capital cost represents estimated cost for projects under development and/or developed and all capitalized costs incurred to date plus any estimates of costs remaining to be funded for all projects, all in accordance with GAAP.
(2) 500 West 23rd Street - The land under this development is subject to a long term ground lease.
(3) Properties included here are substantially complete. However, they may still require additional exterior and interior work for all apartment units to be available for leasing.
(4) Debt is tax-exempt bonds with $12.7 million held in escrow by the lender and released as draw requests are made. This escrowed amount is classified as "Deposits  restricted" in the consolidated balance sheets at 3/31/11.
(5) The Company acquired these completed development projects prior to stabilization and has begun/continued lease-up activities.
(6) Total book value not placed in service excludes $9.5 million of construction-in-progress related to the reconstruction of the Prospect Towers garage.
(1) Total Apartment Units - Excludes 4,805 military housing apartment units for which repairs and maintenance expenses and capital expenditures to real estate are self-funded and do not consolidate into the Company's results.
(2) Repairs and Maintenance Expenses - Includes general maintenance costs, apartment unit turnover costs including interior painting, routine landscaping, security, exterminating, fire protection, snow removal, elevator, roof and parking lot repairs and other miscellaneous building repair costs.
(3) Maintenance Payroll - Includes payroll and related expenses for maintenance staff.
(4) Replacements - Includes new expenditures inside the apartment units such as appliances, mechanical equipment, fixtures and flooring, including carpeting. Replacements for same store properties also include $8.9 million spent in Q1 2011 on apartment unit renovations/rehabs (primarily kitchens and baths) on 1,132 apartment units (equating to about $7,900 per apartment unit rehabbed) designed to reposition these assets for higher rental levels in their respective markets. In 2011, the Company expects to spend approximately $41.0 million rehabbing 5,500 apartment units (equating to about $7,500 per apartment unit rehabbed).
(5) Building Improvements - Includes roof replacement, paving, amenities and common areas, building mechanical equipment systems, exterior painting and siding, major landscaping, vehicles and office and maintenance equipment.
(6) Same Store Properties - Primarily includes all properties acquired or completed and stabilized prior to January 1, 2010, less properties subsequently sold.
(7) Non-Same Store Properties - Primarily includes all properties acquired during 2010 and 2011, plus any properties in lease-up and not stabilized as of January 1, 2010. Per apartment unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 10,137 apartment units.
(8) Other - Primarily includes expenditures for properties sold during the period.
(9) For 2011, the Company estimates that it will spend approximately $1,200 per apartment unit of capital expenditures for its same store properties inclusive of apartment unit renovation/rehab costs, or $850 per apartment unit excluding apartment unit renovation/rehab costs.
(1) Includes expenses paid in the current period for properties sold or held for sale in prior periods related to the Companys period of ownership.
(2) Includes only interest expense specific to secured mortgage notes payable for properties sold and/or held for sale.
Note: See page 24 for the definitions, the footnotes referenced above and the reconciliations of EPS to FFO and Normalized FFO.
Note: All guidance is given on a Normalized FFO basis. Therefore, certain items excluded from Normalized FFO, such as debt extinguishment costs/prepayment penalties and the write-off of pursuit and property acquisition costs, are not included in the estimates provided on this page. See page 24 for the definitions, the footnotes referenced above and the reconciliations of EPS to FFO and Normalized FFO.
Definitions and Footnotes for Pages 5, 22 and 23
(1) The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") defines funds from operations ("FFO") (April 2002 White Paper) as net income (computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP")), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis. The April 2002 White Paper states that gain or loss on sales of property is excluded from FFO for previously depreciated operating properties only. Once the Company commences the conversion of units to condominiums, it simultaneously discontinues depreciation of such property.
(2) Normalized funds from operations ("Normalized FFO") begins with FFO and excludes:
the impact of any expenses relating to asset impairment and valuation allowances;
property acquisition and other transaction costs related to mergers and acquisitions and pursuit cost write-offs (other expenses);
gains and losses from early debt extinguishment, including prepayment penalties, preferred share redemptions and the cost related to the implied option value of non-cash convertible debt discounts;
gains and losses on the sales of non-operating assets, including gains and losses from land parcel and condominium sales, net of the effect of income tax benefits or expenses; and
other miscellaneous non-comparable items.
(3) The Company believes that FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company, because they are recognized measures of performance by the real estate industry and by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of depreciable property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and Units can help compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. The company also believes that Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company because they allow investors to compare the company's operating performance to its performance in prior reporting periods and to the operating performance of other real estate companies without the effect of items that by their nature are not comparable from period to period and tend to obscure the Company's actual operating results. FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units do not represent net income, net income available to Common Shares or net cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units should not be exclusively considered as alternatives to net income, net income available to Common Shares or net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP or as a measure of liquidity. The Company's calculation of FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units may differ from other real estate companies due to, among other items, variations in cost capitalization policies for capital expenditures and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate companies.
(4) FFO available to Common Shares and Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units are calculated on a basis consistent with net income available to Common Shares and reflects adjustments to net income for preferred distributions and premiums on redemption of preferred shares in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The equity positions of various individuals and entities that contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units are collectively referred to as the "Noncontrolling Interests - Operating Partnership". Subject to certain restrictions, the Noncontrolling Interests - Operating Partnership may exchange their OP Units for EQR Common Shares on a one-for-one basis.
(5) Earnings represents net income per share calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Expected earnings is calculated on a basis consistent with actual earnings. Due to the uncertain timing and extent of property dispositions and the resulting gains/losses on sales, actual earnings could differ materially from expected earnings.
CONTACT: Equity Residential Marty McKenna, (312) 928-1901


