FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20111229171933.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
On December 29, 2011, in connection with the previously announced Interest Purchase Agreement among ERP Operating Limited Partnership (""), a subsidiary and the operating partnership of Equity Residential, and certain affiliates of Bank of America Corp. and Barclays PLC (collectively, the ""), ERP and Equity Residential issued a press release relating to Equity Residential and ERP's petition to intervene in the proceedings between Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the Sellers in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
ERP
Sellers
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NEWS RELEASE -
 
DECEMBER 29, 2011
Equity Residential (NYSE: EQR) today announced that in order to defend its interests before the court, the company has today filed a motion to intervene as a party in interest in the legal proceedings between Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bank of America and Barclays Bank PLC regarding the sale to Equity Residential of an interest in the entities that control Archstone, a privately-held owner, operator and developer of multifamily apartment properties.
C
hicago
, IL 
December 29
, 20
11
-
On December 2, 2011, Equity Residential announced that it had entered into a contract to acquire, for $1.325 billion, an approximate 26.5% ownership interest in Archstone currently owned by affiliates of Bank of America and Barclays Bank PLC. Closing of the acquisition is contingent on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. not exercising its right of first offer to acquire this interest from Bank of America and Barclays Bank PLC at the same price as agreed to by Equity Residential, as well as certain other closing conditions.
On December 15, 2011, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sued Bank of America and Barclays Bank PLC asking for, among other things, a preliminary injunction preventing the sale of the Archstone interest to Equity Residential. As Equity Residential was not named as a defendant in this suit, the company must file this motion to intervene in order to have status in this case and defend its interests. Equity Residential is asserting no claims against or seeking any relief from Bank of America and Barclays Bank PLC.
Equity Residential does not believe that the company's intervention in the case will create any delays in the ongoing proceedings. The preliminary injunction hearing requested by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is scheduled for January 5, 2012. Equity Residential has filed this motion in anticipation of that event.
Equity Residential is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of high quality apartment properties in top U.S. growth markets. Equity Residential owns or has investments in 421 properties located in 15 states and the District of Columbia, consisting of 119,743 apartment units. For more information on Equity Residential, please visit our website at .
www.equityapartments.com


