FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20110718173041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On July 18, 2011, Equity Residential (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that its operating partnership, ERP Operating Limited Partnership ("ERP"), was calling its 3.85% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2026 (the "Notes") for redemption on August 18, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     The information contained in this item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On July 18, 2011, the Company filed a prospectus supplement with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the potential issuance of common shares of beneficial interest of the Company ("Common Shares") in connection with the potential exchange of the Notes pursuant to their terms. The issuance of any Common Shares in connection with the exchange of Notes is in the sole discretion of the Company and ERP, as further described in the prospectus supplement.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 5.1
The Marbury Building 6225 Smith Avenue Baltimore, Maryland 21209-3600 410.580.3000 410.580.3001
DLA Piper LLP (US)
T
F
www.dlapiper.com
W
Two North Riverside Plaza, Suite 400 Chicago, Illinois 60606
Equity Residential
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We serve as special Maryland counsel to Equity Residential, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), in connection with the registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), of 2,750,000 (the "") common shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share, of the Company (""), which may be issued upon exchange of the 3.85% Exchangeable Senior Notes Due 2026 (collectively, the "") of the Company's operating partnership, ERP Operating Limited Partnership, covered by the prospectus supplement dated July 18, 2011 (the ""), supplementing the prospectus dated October 10, 2010 that forms part of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-169956) (the "") filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ""). This opinion is being provided at your request in connection with the filing of the Prospectus Supplement.
Company
Act
Shares
Common Shares
Notes
Prospectus Supplement
Registration Statement
Commission
     In connection with our representation of the Company, and as a basis for the opinion hereinafter set forth, we have examined originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of the following documents (collectively, the ""):
Documents
     1. The Registration Statement, in the form in which it was transmitted to the Commission under the Act;
     2. The Prospectus Supplement, in the form in which it was transmitted to the Commission under the Act;
     3. The declaration of trust of the Company, as amended, supplemented and restated (the ""), certified as of the date hereof by an officer of the Company;
Declaration
 
July 18, 2011 Page 2
Equity Residential
     4. The Seventh Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (the ""), certified as of the date hereof by an officer of the Company;
Bylaws
     5. Resolutions adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Company and the Pricing Committee of the Board of Trustees of the Company (collectively, the "") relating to the issuance of the Shares, certified as of the date hereof by an officer of the Company;
Resolutions
     6 A certificate of the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland as to the good standing of the Company, dated as of the date hereof; and
     7. A certificate executed by an officer of the Company, dated as of the date hereof.
     In expressing the opinion set forth below, we have assumed the following:
     1. Each individual executing any of the Documents, whether on behalf of such individual or another person, is legally competent to do so.
     2. Each individual executing any of the Documents on behalf of a party (other than the Company) is duly authorized to do so.
     3. Each of the parties (other than the Company) executing any of the Documents has duly and validly executed and delivered each of the Documents to which such party is a signatory, and such party's (including the Company's) obligations set forth therein are legal, valid and binding.
     4. All Documents submitted to us as originals are authentic. All Documents submitted to us as certified or photostatic copies conform to the original documents. All signatures on all such Documents are genuine. All public records reviewed or relied upon by us or on our behalf are true and complete. All statements and information contained in the Documents are true and complete. There has been no oral or written modification or amendment to the Documents, or waiver of any provision of the Documents, by action or omission of the parties or otherwise.
     5. The Company will issue the Shares in accordance with the Resolutions and, prior to the issuance of any of the Shares, the Company will have available for issuance, under the Declaration, the requisite number of authorized but unissued Common Shares.
     6. The Shares will not be issued or transferred in violation of any restriction or limitation on transfer or ownership of Shares (as defined in the Declaration) contained in Article VII of the Declaration.
 
July 18, 2011 Page 3
Equity Residential
     7. Appropriate certificates representing the Shares will be executed and delivered upon issuance of any of the Shares, and will comply with the Declaration, the Bylaws and applicable law.
     Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the assumptions, limitations and qualifications stated herein, it is our opinion that the Shares have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered in accordance with the Declaration, the Resolutions and the applicable Note, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
     The foregoing opinion is limited to the substantive laws of the State of Maryland and we do not express any opinion herein concerning any other law. We express no opinion as to compliance with the securities (or "blue sky") laws of the State of Maryland. The opinion expressed herein is subject to the effect of judicial decisions which may permit the introduction of parol evidence to modify the terms or the interpretation of agreements.
     We assume no obligation to supplement this opinion if any applicable law changes after the date hereof or if we become aware of any fact that might change the opinion expressed herein after the date hereof.
     This opinion is being furnished to you for submission to the Commission as an exhibit to the Registration Statement.
     We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required by Section 7 of the Act.

EXHIBIT 8.1
Board of Trustees Equity Residential Two North Riverside Plaza, Suite 400 Chicago, Illinois 60606
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We are acting as special tax counsel to Equity Residential, a Maryland real estate investment trust ("EQR"), in connection with the offering of 2,750,000 common shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share ("Shares") as described in (i) the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-169956) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and which became effective on October 15, 2010 (the "Registration Statement") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Securities Act"), (ii) the Base Prospectus filed with the Registration Statement on the same date (the "Base Prospectus"), and (iii) the Prospectus Supplement dated July 18, 2011 and filed with the SEC (the "Prospectus Supplement"). This opinion letter is furnished to you at your request to enable EQR to fulfill the requirements of Item 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K, 17 C.F.R.  229.601(b)(8), in connection with the Registration Statement and the Prospectus Supplement.
     For purposes of this opinion letter, we have examined copies of the following documents: (i) an executed copy of the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus, and the Prospectus Supplement; (ii) the Articles of Restatement of EQR ("Declaration of Trust"), as certified by an officer of the Company on the date hereof as then being complete, accurate, and in effect; (iii) the Seventh Amended and Restated Bylaws of EQR ("Bylaws"), as certified by an officer of the Company on the date hereof as then being complete, accurate, and in effect(iv) the Sixth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Operating Partnership ("ERP LP Agreement"); (v) resolutions of the Board of Trustees of EQR or a duly authorized committee thereof that authorizes and otherwise relates to the issuance of the Shares ("Resolutions"); and (vi) such other materials and matters as we have deemed necessary for the issuance of this opinion.
;
 
     In addition, we have relied upon the factual representations and covenants of EQR and, to the extent set forth in the Officer's Certificate (as hereinafter defined), of Multifamily Portfolio Partners, Inc., a Delaware corporation, EQR-District Holding, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and BEL Residential Properties Trust, a Maryland real estate investment trust (each such entity, along with BEL Multifamily Property Trust, a Maryland real estate investment trust, BEL Communities Property Trust, a Maryland real estate investment trust, and BEL Apartment Properties Trust, a Maryland real estate investment trust, hereinafter referred to as a ""), contained in EQR's certificate to us, dated as of the date hereof (the "), executed by a duly appointed officer of EQR setting forth certain representations and covenants relating to the organization and operation of EQR, the Operating Partnership, the Subsidiary REITs and their respective subsidiaries.
Subsidiary REIT
"Officer's Certificate
     Although we have made such inquiries and performed such investigations as we have deemed necessary for purposes of our opinion, we have not independently verified all of the facts, statements, representations and covenants set forth in the Officer's Certificate or in any other document we reviewed. We consequently have assumed that the information presented in such documents or otherwise furnished to us accurately and completely describes all material facts relevant to our opinion. We are not aware of any facts that are inconsistent with any of the representations made to us in the Officer's Certificate. Any representation or statement in any document upon which we rely that is made "to the best knowledge of or otherwise similarly qualified is assumed to be true, correct and complete as if made without such qualification as to knowledge or belief. Any alteration or inaccuracy of such facts, statements, representations or covenants may adversely affect our opinions.
     For purposes of our opinion, we have assumed that all of the representations and statements of a factual nature set forth in the documents we reviewed are true, correct and complete, and all of the obligations imposed by any such documents on the parties thereto have been and will be performed or satisfied in accordance with their terms. We have also assumed the legal capacity of all natural persons, the genuineness of all signatures, the proper execution of all documents, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to originals of documents submitted to us as copies, and the authenticity of the originals from which any copies were made.
     The opinions set forth in this letter are based on relevant provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), the regulations promulgated thereunder by the United States Department of the Treasury ("") (including proposed and temporary Regulations), and interpretations of the foregoing as expressed in court decisions, the legislative history, and existing administrative rulings and practices of the Internal Revenue Service (including its practices and policies in issuing private letter rulings, which are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service ("") except with respect to a taxpayer that receives such a ruling), all as of the date hereof.
Code
Regulations
IRS
 
     In rendering these opinions, we have assumed that the transactions contemplated by the Reviewed Documents will be consummated in accordance with the terms and provisions of such documents, and that such documents accurately reflect the material facts of such transactions. In addition, the opinions are based on the correctness of the following specific assumptions:
     With respect to the last assumption, it should be noted that statutes, regulations, judicial decisions, and administrative interpretations are subject to change at any time and, in some circumstances, with retroactive effect. A material change that is made after the date hereof in any of the foregoing bases for our opinions could affect our conclusions. Furthermore, if the facts vary from those relied upon (including if any representations, warranties, covenants or assumptions upon which we have relied are inaccurate, incomplete, breached or ineffective), our opinion contained herein could be inapplicable.
     The qualification and taxation of EQR as a real estate investment trust ("") under the Code will depend upon (i) EQR's meeting, in its actual operations, the applicable asset composition, source of income, shareholder diversification, distribution and other requirements of the Code and Regulations necessary for an entity to qualify as a REIT and (ii) the satisfaction by each of the Subsidiary REITs of the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT. We will not review the operations of EQR or any of the Subsidiary REITs, and no assurance can be given that the actual operations of EQR or any Subsidiary REIT will meet these requirements or the representations made to us with respect thereto.
REIT
     Based upon and subject to the foregoing, it is our opinion that:
 
     The foregoing opinion is limited to the matters specifically discussed herein, which are the only matters to which you have requested our opinion. Other than as expressly stated above, we express no opinion on any issue relating to EQR or any investment therein, the Operating Partnership, any Subsidiary REIT, or under any other law.
     For a discussion relating the law to the facts and the legal analysis underlying the opinions set forth in this letter, we incorporate by reference the discussion of federal income tax issues, which we assisted in preparing, in the section of EQR's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, under the heading "Federal Income Tax Considerations." We assume no obligation to advise you of any changes in the foregoing subsequent to the date of this opinion letter, and we are not undertaking to update the opinion letter from time to time. You should be aware that an opinion of counsel represents only counsel's best legal judgment, and has no binding effect or official status of any kind, and that no assurance can be given that contrary positions may not be taken by the Internal Revenue Service or that a court considering the issues would not hold otherwise.
     This opinion is rendered only to you and may not be quoted in whole or in part or otherwise referred to, nor be filed with, or furnished to, any other person or entity in connection with the Registration Statements. We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to Item 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K, 17 C.F.R.  229.601(b)(8), and the reference to DLA Piper LLP (US) contained under the heading "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement included as part of the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NEWS RELEASE 
CONTACT: Marty McKenna       (312) 928-1901
JULY 18, 2011
Equity Residential Announces Redemption and Optional Repurchase of 3.85% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2026
Equity Residential (NYSE: EQR) today announced that its operating partnership, ERP Operating Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership"), is calling its 3.85% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2026 (the "Notes") for redemption on August 18, 2011.
Chicago, IL  July 18, 2011 
Redemption of Notes
The Operating Partnership is calling for redemption, on August 18, 2011, all of its outstanding Notes. The Notes will be redeemed in cash at a price of 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the redemption date. As of the close of business on July 15, 2011, there were $482,545,000 of Notes outstanding.
From the redemption date forward, the Notes will no longer be deemed outstanding, interest will no longer accrue and holders will have no rights other than the right to receive the redemption price, without interest, upon surrender of the Notes. Payment of the redemption price will be made only upon presentation and surrender of the Notes to The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, the trustee and paying agent, during its business hours at the address specified in the Notice of Redemption.
As a result of the redemption, the Notes are exchangeable in accordance with their terms at any time from the date of the redemption notice until the close of business on August 16, 2011, for an "Exchange Value" equal to the current exchange rate of 16.3934 (subject to adjustment) Company common shares ("Common Shares") multiplied by the average price of the Common Shares over a specified period following the date a Note is tendered for exchange. The Exchange Value will be paid to each exchanging Note holder (i) in cash, up to the principal amount of the Notes being exchanged, and (ii) to the extent that the Exchange Value exceeds such principal amount, such excess amount will be paid, at the Company's and the Operating Partnership's option, in cash, Common Shares, or a combination of cash and Common Shares. The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association is the exchange agent, located at the address specified in the Notice of Redemption.
The Notice of Redemption and Optional Repurchase will be mailed to holders of the Notes no later than Tuesday, July 19, 2011.
Optional Repurchase of Notes
A holder of Notes also has the right to require the Operating Partnership to repurchase such holder's Notes, in whole or in any portion of the principal amount thereof that is equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, on August 18, 2011, for an amount in cash equal to 100% of the
 
principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the optional repurchase date. In order to receive the optional repurchase price, holders of Notes must deliver an optional repurchase notice, together with the Notes such holder wishes the Operating Partnership to repurchase, to The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, the paying agent, at the address specified in the Notice of Redemption and Optional Repurchase. The optional repurchase notice must be received by the paying agent beginning at any time from July 19, 2011 until the close of business on August 15, 2011. The optional repurchase price is the same amount as the redemption price.
The optional repurchase price for any Note as to which an optional repurchase notice has been duly given will be paid within two business days after the later of the optional repurchase date or the time at which such Notes are surrendered to the paying agent for repurchase. Unless the Operating Partnership defaults in making payment of the optional repurchase price, from and after the optional repurchase date the Notes will no longer be deemed outstanding, interest thereon shall cease to accrue and all the rights of the holders of the Notes shall cease, except the right to receive the optional repurchase price.
Notes in respect of which an optional repurchase notice has been provided by a holder shall not be exchangeable even if otherwise exchangeable unless such holder validly withdraws such optional repurchase notice in accordance with the terms of the Notes.
The Notice of Redemption and Optional Repurchase will be mailed to holders of the Notes no later than Tuesday, July 19, 2011.
Forward-Looking Statements
The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties including, without limitation, the risks described under the heading "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and available on our website, www.equityapartments.com. The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Equity Residential is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of high quality apartment properties in top U.S. growth markets. Equity Residential owns or has investments in 421 properties located in 16 states and the District of Columbia, consisting of 120,760 apartment units. For more information on Equity Residential, please visit our website at www.equityapartments.com.


