FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20121126162402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
On November 26, 2012, Equity Residential, through its operating partnership, ERP Operating Limited Partnership (collectively with Equity Residential, the "Company") entered into a definitive agreement to acquire various real estate properties from Archstone Enterprise LP, an unrelated third party (collectively the "Archstone Portfolio"). The Company is hereby filing certain financial information relating to the Archstone Portfolio (see Item 9.01(d) below) indicated under Rule 3-14 and Article 11 of Regulation S-X.
(a), (b) 
The Archstone Portfolio is being acquired from an unrelated third party. After reasonable inquiry, the Company is not aware of any material factors relating to the operations of the Archstone Portfolio not otherwise disclosed that would cause the reported historical financial information not to be necessarily indicative of future operating results.
Material factors considered in assessing the acquisition of the Archstone Portfolio included, but were not limited to, the opportunity to acquire high quality apartment properties primarily located in the Company's core strategic markets, representing top United States growth markets, and the following:
 
The closing of this pending transaction is subject to certain conditions and restrictions, therefore, there can be no assurance that this transaction will be consummated or that the final terms will not differ in material respects from those summarized in the preceding paragraph.
Based on the above factors, the historical financial statements included herein relating to the potential acquisition have been audited for the Archstone Portfolio's most recent fiscal year. The historical financial statements included herein reflect 100% of the results of the five partially owned properties as required despite the various levels of partial ownership. In addition, the Archstone Portfolio will be directly or indirectly owned by entities that elect or have elected to be treated as real estate investment trusts ("REIT's") for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, a presentation of estimated taxable operating results is not applicable.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference by Equity Residential in the registration statements (Nos. 333-178041, 333-178040, 333-175242, 333-169956, 333-151588, 333-142723, 333-141261, 333-135503, 333-100631, 333-63176, 333-80835, 333-72961, 333-12983, 333-06873, 33-97680 and 33-84974) on Form S-3, (Nos. 333-175173, 333-107244, 333-06869, 333-102609, 333-83403, 333-88237 and 333-66257) on Form S-8, and (Nos. 333-44576 and 333-35873) on Form S-4 of Equity Residential of our report dated November 26, 2012, with respect to the combined statement of revenue and certain expenses of the Archstone Portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2011, which report appears in the Form 8-K of Equity Residential dated November 26, 2012.
Our report on the combined statement of revenue and certain expenses of the Archstone Portfolio contains a paragraph that states that the combined statement of revenue and certain expenses was prepared for the purpose of complying with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, as described in Note 1 to the combined statement of revenue and certain expenses, and it is not intended to be a complete presentation of the Archstone Portfolio's revenue and expenses.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Denver, Colorado
November 26, 2012
Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference by ERP Operating Limited Partnership in the registration statements (No. 333-169956) on Form S-3 and (Nos. 333-44576 and 333-36053) on Form S-4 of ERP Operating Limited Partnership of our report dated November 26, 2012, with respect to the combined statement of revenue and certain expenses of the Archstone Portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2011, which report appears in the Form 8-K of ERP Operating Limited Partnership dated November 26, 2012.
Our report on the combined statement of revenue and certain expenses of the Archstone Portfolio contains a paragraph that states that the combined statement of revenue and certain expenses was prepared for the purpose of complying with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, as described in Note 1 to the combined statement of revenue and certain expenses, and it is not intended to be a complete presentation of the Archstone Portfolio's revenue and expenses.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Denver, Colorado
November 26, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
The Partners
Archstone Enterprise LP:
We have audited the accompanying combined statement of revenue and certain expenses of the Archstone Portfolio (the "Properties") for the year ended December 31, 2011. This combined financial statement is the responsibility of the management of Archstone Enterprise LP. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the combined financial statement based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statement is free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Properties' internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statement, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The accompanying combined statement of revenue and certain expenses was prepared for the purpose of complying with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and for the inclusion in Form 8-K of Equity Residential and ERP Operating Limited Partnership, as described in Note 1 to the combined financial statement. It is not intended to be a complete presentation of the Properties' revenue and expenses.
In our opinion, the combined statement of revenue and certain expenses referred to above presents fairly, in all material respects, the combined revenue and certain expenses, as described in Note 1, of the Properties for the year ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Denver, Colorado
November 26, 2012
 
See accompanying notes.
1. Basis of Presentation
ERP Operating Limited Partnership (collectively with Equity Residential, its general partner, the "Company"), expects to indirectly acquire a portfolio of apartment buildings primarily located in its core strategic markets known as the Archstone Portfolio (the "Properties").
The Properties consist of approximately seventy-five wholly owned and five partially owned properties containing approximately 25,000 apartment units located primarily in high barrier to entry markets where the Company already operates. The portfolio contains 22.2 million net rentable square feet of residential space and approximately 475,000 square feet of commercial space.
The combined statements of revenue and certain expenses relate to the operations of the Properties and were prepared for the purpose of complying with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Rule 3-14 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, the accompanying combined statements of revenue and certain expenses have been prepared using the accrual method of accounting. Certain expenses which may not be in the proposed future operations of the Properties, such as depreciation, amortization, income taxes, mortgage interest expense and entity expenses, are not reflected in the combined statements of revenue and certain expenses in accordance with Rule 3-14 of Regulation S-X. The combined statements of revenue and certain expenses included herein reflect 100% of the results of the five partially owned properties as required despite the various levels of partial ownership.
The accompanying unaudited interim combined statement of revenue and certain expenses has been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and was prepared on the same basis as the combined statement of revenue and certain expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011. In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for this interim period have been made. The combined revenue in excess of certain expenses for such interim period is not necessarily indicative of the combined revenue in excess of certain expenses for the full year.
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Revenue Recognition
The residential apartments are leased under operating leases with terms of generally one year or less. Rental income attributable to residential leases is recorded on a straight-line basis, which is not materially different than if it were recorded when due from residents and recognized monthly as it was earned.
Utility reimbursements from residents are recorded on a gross basis and included in other revenue in the accompanying statements.
Repairs and Maintenance
Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred, while significant improvements, renovations and replacements are capitalized.
Estimates
The preparation of the combined statements of revenue and certain expenses in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Advertising Costs
All advertising costs are expensed as incurred and included as operating expenses in the accompanying combined statements of revenue and certain expenses. For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2012 (unaudited) and the year ended December 31, 2011, advertising expenses were approximately $4,243,986 and $4,892,601, respectively.
3. Related Party Transactions
An affiliate of the Archstone Portfolio incurred costs to manage the Properties and allocated a proportionate share of the costs to the Properties based on a percentage of revenue in the amounts of $13,678,543 and $16,798,681 for the nine-month period ending September 30, 2012 (unaudited) and the year ended December 31, 2011, respectively, and such amounts are included in management fees in the accompanying statements.
An affiliate of the Archstone Portfolio performed the property management function and charged four partially owned properties total management fees in the amount of approximately $1,297,414 and $1,547,258 for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2012 (unaudited) and the year ended December 31, 2011, respectively, which are included in management fees in the accompanying statements.
An affiliate of the Archstone Portfolio allocated insurance expense under a master policy to the Properties and various affiliated properties. Insurance expense for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2012 (unaudited) and the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $7,980,440 and $10,603,186, respectively, and is included in real estate taxes and insurance in the accompanying statements.
4. Ground Leases
There are ten non-cancelable net ground leases for certain apartment communities and buildings that expire between 2042 and 2110. Each net ground lease generally provides for a primarily fixed annual rental payment plus additional rental payments that vary based on the properties' operating results.
Minimum future payments under the ground lease agreements in effect at December 31, 2011 are as follows:
 
On November 26, 2012, Equity Residential and ERP Operating Limited Partnership (collectively, the "Company") entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Avalon Bay Communities, Inc. ("AVB"), Archstone Enterprise LP ("Archstone") and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ("LBHI") pursuant to which the Company, AVB and certain of their respective subsidiaries have agreed to acquire from Archstone and its affiliates, all of the assets and interests in various entities affiliated with Archstone. In connection with the acquisition, the Company will acquire a portfolio of apartment properties in exchange for (i) cash in the aggregate amount of $2.0 billion, (ii) 34.5 million common shares of beneficial interest of Equity Residential, and (iii) the assumption of liabilities related to the Archstone Portfolio (see definition below). Following consummation of these transactions, the Company will own assets representing approximately 60% of the Archstone Portfolio and AVB will own assets representing approximately 40% of the Archstone Portfolio.
The Company will pay approximately $9.6 billion, inclusive of assumed debt of approximately $5.0 billion, and receive approximately seventy-five wholly owned and five partially owned properties containing approximately 25,000 apartment units located primarily in high barrier to entry markets where the Company already operates. The portfolio contains 22.2 million net rentable square feet of residential space and approximately 475,000 square feet of commercial space. In addition, the Company and AVB will acquire interests in certain assets of Archstone, including Archstone's interests in certain joint ventures, interests in the Archstone German portfolio and certain development land parcels through one or more unconsolidated joint ventures between the Company and AVB that are expected to be owned 60% by the Company and 40% by AVB (the Company's collective acquisition is referred to as the "Archstone Portfolio"). The joint ventures between the Company and AVB will consist of assets that do not fit the Company's or AVB's core strategy or asset class. As a result, the Company and AVB plan to divest (held for sale) the joint venture assets as promptly as reasonably possible, subject to market and other economic conditions.
The closing of this pending transaction is subject to certain conditions and restrictions, therefore, there can be no assurance that this transaction will be consummated or that the final terms will not differ in material respects from those summarized in the preceding paragraph.
The accompanying unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets of Equity Residential and ERP Operating Limited Partnership are presented as if the Archstone Portfolio had been acquired on September 30, 2012. The accompanying unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2012 and for the year ended December 31, 2011 of Equity Residential and ERP Operating Limited Partnership are presented as if the Archstone Portfolio had been acquired on January 1, 2011. The Archstone Portfolio is expected to be purchased during 2013. The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets are segregated into separate components as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations are segregated into separate components as follows (with the year ended December 31, 2011 including an additional reclassification for discontinued operations):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with:
 
 
 
In management's opinion, all adjustments necessary to reflect the transaction including the acquisition of the Archstone Portfolio have been made. The following unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets do not purport to represent the future financial position of the Company. The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations are not necessarily indicative of what the actual results of operations would have been for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2012 or for the year ended December 31, 2011 assuming the above transaction had been consummated on January 1, 2011, nor do they purport to represent the future results of operations of the Company.
 
See accompanying notes.
 
See accompanying notes.
 
See accompanying notes.
 
See accompanying notes.
 
See accompanying notes.
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reflects the reallocation of total capital and limited partners interest based on the limited partners ownership of ERP Operating Limited Partnership.
 
Pursuant to the Archstone Portfolio acquisition there are certain transaction costs that will be paid at or near closing. These costs are not included in the pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 because they represent non-recurring charges that result directly from the transaction and will be included in the consolidated financial results of the Company within twelve months of the transaction.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of calculating the estimated 2012 interest, we assumed a LIBOR rate of 0.30% and a SIFMA rate of 0.20%. If the above-mentioned benchmark rates were to fluctuate by 1/8%, our year to date interest expense with respect to this transaction would vary by approximately $1.7 million. The fair market value adjustment on the assumed debt was amortized using the straight line method over the respective maturity dates with an average life of 8.5 years.
With the bridge loan expiring as of December 31, 2011, the Company replaced the borrowing utilizing two sources: $750.0 million on the line of credit after an expected increase in the capacity, bringing the total commitment on the line of credit to $2.5 billion, and $375.0 million on a new Term Loan with a four year maturity. We assumed the same interest rate of LIBOR + 1.15% for both the line of credit upsizing and the term loan. If the above-mentioned benchmark rates were to fluctuate by 1/8%, our year to date interest expense would vary by approximately $1.7 million.
 
 
 
 
Historical basic and diluted weighted average units outstanding of 313.9 million and 317.3 million, respectively, for ERP Operating Liming Partnership should be adjusted to include the 34.5 million shares issued to LBHI in order to complete the transaction (see note (4u) on the Pro Forma Balance Sheet) and the estimated 13.7 million shares issued to the public due to the assumed equity offering (see note (4v) on the Pro Forma Balance Sheet). ERP Operating Limited Partnership will issue one unit to Equity Residential for each common share issued by Equity Residential to maintain the one-for-one relationship between common shares and units.
 
 
Pursuant to the Archstone Portfolio acquisition there are certain transaction costs that will be paid at or near closing. These costs are not included in the pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 because they represent non-recurring charges that result directly from the transaction and will be included in the consolidated financial results of the Company within twelve months of the transaction.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of calculating the estimated 2011 interest, we assumed a LIBOR rate of 0.30% and a SIFMA rate of 0.20%. If the above-mentioned benchmark rates were to fluctuate by 1/8%, our year to date interest expense with respect to this transaction would vary by approximately $2.28 million. The fair market value adjustment on the assumed debt was amortized using the straight line method over the respective maturity dates with an average life of 8.5 years.
The financing to complete the transaction was achieved using a $750.0 million draw on the existing line of credit and funding the bridge loan in the amount of $1.125 billion which terminates 364 days after funding. We used the current interest rate of LIBOR + 1.15% on the line of credit and the bridge loan to calculate estimated interest. If the above-mentioned benchmark rates were to fluctuate by 1/8%, our year to date interest expense would vary by approximately $2.3 million.
 
 
 
 
(see note (4u) on the Pro Forma Balance Sheet) and the estimated 13.7 million shares issued to the public due to the assumed equity offering (see note (4v) on the Pro Forma Balance Sheet). We did not adjust the number of diluted shares outstanding as it would be antidilutive.
Historical basic weighted average units outstanding of 308.1 million for ERP Operating Limited Partnership should be adjusted to include the 34.5 million shares issued to LBHI in order to complete the transaction (see note (4u) on the Pro Forma Balance Sheet) and the estimated 13.7 million shares issued to the public due to the assumed equity offering (see note (4v) on the Pro Forma Balance Sheet). We did not adjust the number of diluted units outstanding as it would be antidilutive. ERP Operating Limited Partnership will issue one unit to Equity Residential for each common share issued by Equity Residential to maintain the one-for-one relationship between common shares and units.
 


