FILE:EQR/EQR-8K-20121130165138.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Equity Residential and its operating partnership, ERP Operating Limited Partnership (collectively with Equity Residential, the "Company"), hereby amends the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 26, 2012 (the "Original Report"), to update the pro forma financial information contained in the Original Report.
(b) The pro forma financial information contained under the caption "Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" in Equity Residential's prospectus supplement dated November 28, 2012 is hereby incorporated herein by reference (the "Incorporated Information"). A copy of the Incorporated Information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
On November 26, 2012, Equity Residential and ERP Operating Limited Partnership (collectively, the "Company") entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Avalon Bay Communities, Inc. ("AVB"), Archstone Enterprise LP ("Archstone") and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ("LBHI") pursuant to which the Company, AVB and certain of their respective subsidiaries have agreed to acquire from Archstone and its affiliates, all of the assets and interests in various entities affiliated with Archstone. In connection with the acquisition, the Company will acquire a portfolio of apartment properties in exchange for (i) cash in the aggregate amount of $2.0 billion, (ii) 34.5 million common shares of beneficial interest of Equity Residential, and (iii) the assumption of liabilities related to the Archstone Portfolio (see definition below). Following consummation of these transactions, the Company will own assets representing approximately 60% of the Archstone Portfolio and AVB will own assets representing approximately 40% of the Archstone Portfolio.
The Company will pay approximately $9.6 billion, inclusive of assumed debt of approximately $5.0 billion, and receive approximately seventy-five wholly owned and five partially owned properties containing approximately 25,000 apartment units located primarily in high barrier to entry markets where the Company already operates. The portfolio contains 22.2 million net rentable square feet of residential space and approximately 475,000 square feet of commercial space. In addition, the Company and AVB will acquire interests in certain assets of Archstone, including Archstone's interests in certain joint ventures, interests in the Archstone German portfolio and certain development land parcels through one or more unconsolidated joint ventures between the Company and AVB that are expected to be owned 60% by the Company and 40% by AVB (the Company's collective acquisition is referred to as the "Archstone Portfolio"). The joint ventures between the Company and AVB will consist of assets that do not fit the Company's or AVB's core strategy or asset class. As a result, the Company and AVB plan to divest (held for sale) the joint venture assets as promptly as reasonably possible, subject to market and other economic conditions.
The closing of this pending transaction is subject to certain conditions and restrictions, therefore, there can be no assurance that this transaction will be consummated or that the final terms will not differ in material respects from those summarized in the preceding paragraph.
The accompanying unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets of Equity Residential and ERP Operating Limited Partnership are presented as if the Archstone Portfolio had been acquired on September 30, 2012. The accompanying unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2012 and for the year ended December 31, 2011 of Equity Residential and ERP Operating Limited Partnership are presented as if the Archstone Portfolio had been acquired on January 1, 2011. The Archstone Portfolio is expected to be purchased during 2013. The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets are segregated into separate components as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations are segregated into separate components as follows (with the year ended December 31, 2011 including an additional reclassification for discontinued operations):
 
 
 
 
 
 
These Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with:
 
 
 
In management's opinion, all adjustments necessary to reflect the transaction including the acquisition of the Archstone Portfolio have been made. The following unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets do not purport to represent the future financial position of the Company. The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations are not necessarily indicative of what the actual results of operations would have been for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2012 or for the year ended December 31, 2011 assuming the above transaction had been consummated on January 1, 2011, nor do they purport to represent the future results of operations of the Company.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reflects the reallocation of total capital and limited partners interest based on the limited partners ownership of ERP Operating Limited Partnership.
 
 
Pursuant to the Archstone Portfolio acquisition there are certain transaction costs that will be paid at or near closing. These costs are not included in the pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 because they represent non-recurring charges that result directly from the transaction and will be included in the consolidated financial results of the Company within twelve months of the transaction.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of calculating the estimated 2012 interest, we assumed a LIBOR rate of 0.30% and a SIFMA rate of 0.20%. If the above-mentioned benchmark rates were to fluctuate by 1/8%, our year to date interest expense with respect to this transaction would vary by approximately $1.7 million. The fair market value adjustment on the assumed debt was amortized using the straight line method over the respective maturity dates with an average life of 8.5 years.
With the bridge loan expiring as of December 31, 2011, the Company replaced the borrowing utilizing two sources: $750.0 million on the line of credit after an expected increase in the capacity, bringing the total commitment on the line of credit to $2.5 billion, and $80.0 million on a new Term Loan with a four year maturity. We assumed the same interest rate of LIBOR + 1.15% for both the line of credit upsizing and the term loan. If the above-mentioned benchmark rates were to fluctuate by 1/8%, our year to date interest expense would vary by approximately $1.5 million.
 
 
 
 
 
Historical basic and diluted weighted average units outstanding of 313.9 million and 317.3 million, respectively, for ERP Operating Liming Partnership should be adjusted to include the 34.5 million shares issued to LBHI in order to complete the transaction (see note (4u) on the Pro Forma Balance Sheet) and the 19.0 million shares issued to the public due to the equity offering (see note (4v) on the Pro Forma Balance Sheet). ERP Operating Limited Partnership will issue one unit to Equity Residential for each common share issued by Equity Residential to maintain the one-for-one relationship between common shares and units.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the Archstone Portfolio acquisition there are certain transaction costs that will be paid at or near closing. These costs are not included in the pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 because they represent non-recurring charges that result directly from the transaction and will be included in the consolidated financial results of the Company within twelve months of the transaction.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of calculating the estimated 2011 interest, we assumed a LIBOR rate of 0.30% and a SIFMA rate of 0.20%. If the above-mentioned benchmark rates were to fluctuate by 1/8%, our year to date interest expense with respect to this transaction would vary by approximately $2.28 million. The fair market value adjustment on the assumed debt was amortized using the straight line method over the respective maturity dates with an average life of 8.5 years.
The financing to complete the transaction was achieved using a $750.0 million draw on the existing line of credit and funding the bridge loan in the amount of $830.0 million which terminates 364 days after funding. We used the current interest rate of LIBOR + 1.15% on the line of credit and the bridge loan to calculate estimated interest. If the above-mentioned benchmark rates were to fluctuate by 1/8%, our year to date interest expense would vary by approximately $2.0 million.
 
 
 
 
 
Historical basic weighted average units outstanding of 308.1 million for ERP Operating Limited Partnership should be adjusted to include the 34.5 million shares issued to LBHI in order to complete the transaction (see note (4u) on the Pro Forma Balance Sheet) and the 19.0 million shares issued to the public due to the equity offering (see note (4v) on the Pro Forma Balance Sheet). We did not adjust the number of diluted units outstanding as it would be antidilutive. ERP Operating Limited Partnership will issue one unit to Equity Residential for each common share issued by Equity Residential to maintain the one-for-one relationship between common shares and units.
 
 


