FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20020603163740.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 May 30, 2002 (Date of earliest event reported) ONEOK, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Oklahoma 001-13643 73-1520922 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 100 West Fifth Street; Tulsa, OK (Address of principal executive offices) 74103 (Zip code) (918) 588-7000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure Western Resources, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Westar Industries, Inc. (collectively "Western"), delivered a sale notice (the "Sale Notice") on May 30, 2002 to ONEOK, Inc. ("ONEOK") giving notice of their intent to sell 4,714,434 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), of ONEOK and 19,946,448 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock") of ONEOK (collectively, with the Common Stock, the "Sale Securities") representing all of the Common Stock and Preferred Stock of ONEOK beneficially owned by Western. Pursuant to the terms of the Shareholder Agreement between ONEOK and Western dated November 26, 1997, the delivery of the Sale Notice to ONEOK gives ONEOK or its designee the option to purchase, for a period of 90 days after the date of the Sale Notice, all, but not less than all, of the Sale Securities at a price equal to 98.5% of the average of the closing prices of ONEOK's Common Stock (the "Market Price") during the 20 trading days prior to the date of the Sale Notice. This sale period can be extended 30 days after regulatory approvals, but not to exceed 180 days after the date of the Sale Notice. If ONEOK fails to exercise its rights to purchase the Sale Securities within the designated time frame, then ONEOK has two options: (a) ONEOK may inform Western in writing that it will reimburse Western for the aggregate difference between the Market Price as of the date of the Sale Notice and the Market Price as of the date of Western's completing a sale of the Sale Securities, with such sale being completed within the latter of 180 days from the date of the Sale Notice or 30 days from receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals; or (b) If ONEOK does not notify Western of its agreement to reimburse Western as stated above, then Western has 16 months from the date of the Sale Notice to complete a sale to third party. If such sale is not completed within such 16-month period, the Sale Securities will once again become subject to the sale provisions under the Shareholder Agreement. Item 7. Financial Statements, ProForma Financial Information and Exhibits (a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired Not applicable (b) ProForma Financial Information Not applicable (c) Exhibits 99.a Press Release Issued by ONEOK, Inc. dated May 30, 2002 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. ONEOK, Inc. Date: June 3, 2002 By: /s/ Jim Kneale --------------------------------- Jim Kneale Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 3

Exhibit 99.a [ONEOK LOGO] Financial News - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- May 30, 2002 Contact: Weldon Watson 918-588-7158 ONEOK TO CONSIDER OPTIONS FOR ACQUIRING COMPANY SHARES Tulsa, Oklahoma -- ONEOK, Inc., (NYSE:OKE), today received an official sale notice from Western Resources, Inc. and its subsidiary Westar Industries, Inc., (NYSE:WR), indicating its intention to sell all its equity holdings in ONEOK. This includes approximately 4.7 million shares of common stock and 19.9 million shares of series A convertible preferred stock. ONEOK or its designee has the right under a Shareholder Agreement with Western to purchase all the shares at the $21.77 per share price contained in the sale notice. The total price would be approximately $971.1 million. (This calculation doubles the number of convertible preferred shares to accommodate a two-for-one split in ONEOK's common stock making the total number of shares for calculation purposes 44.6 million shares.) David Kyle, chairman, president and chief executive officer of ONEOK said, "We have anticipated the possibility that all of Western's ONEOK holdings could be offered to the company. We will review our options under the terms of the Shareholder Agreement and take action in the best interest of ONEOK shareholders." The company has 90 days in which to make a decision as to whether to purchase the shares and to complete the closing. The sale period can be extended for 30 days after regulatory approvals but may not exceed 180 days after the date of the sale notice. If the company elects not to exercise its rights to purchase the shares within the designated timeframe, then the company has two options:
1. The company may inform Western in writing that it will reimburse Western for the aggregate difference between the market price as of the date of the sale notice and the market price as of the date of Western's completing a sale of Western's equity in ONEOK, with such sale being completed within the latter of 180 days from the date of the sale notice or 30 days from receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals; or 2. The company may inform Western that it does not plan to reimburse Western as stated above, in which case Western has 16 months from the date of the sale notice to complete a sale to a third party. If the sale is not completed within the 16-month period, the shares will once again become subject to the sale provisions under the Shareholder Agreement. The Western Resources equity position in ONEOK was created in 1997 when ONEOK issued equity to acquire Western's Kansas gas distribution properties known today as Kansas Gas Service Company, the largest natural gas distributor in the state of Kansas. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ONEOK, Inc. is a diversified energy company involved primarily in oil and gas production, natural gas processing, gathering, storage and transmission in the mid-continent areas of the United States. The company's energy marketing and trading operations provide service to customers in 28 states. The company is also the largest natural gas distributor in Kansas and Oklahoma, operating as Kansas Gas Service and Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, serving 1.4 million customers. ONEOK is a Fortune 500 Company. For information about ONEOK, Inc. visit the Web site: www.oneok.com. ###


