FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20021216150339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 5
Other Events
 
On December 11, 2002, ONEOK, Inc. closed the sale of certain midstream assets to an affiliate of Mustang Fuel Corporation. The purchase price was $92.5 million. The assets, located in North Central Oklahoma, include three processing plants and related gathering systems and an interest in a fourth processing plant. Funds from the sale were used to reduce ONEOK's short-term debt.
 
.
Item 7
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
Not applicable.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
Not applicable.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
99.1 Press release issued by ONEOK, Inc. dated December 13, 2002.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Tulsa, Oklahoma  ONEOK, Inc., (NYSE:OKE) announced today that it has closed the sale of certain midstream assets to an affiliate of Mustang Fuel Corporation, a private, independent oil and gas company, headquartered in Oklahoma City. The purchase price was $92.5 million. The agreement to sell the assets was announced in October.
 
The assets located in North Central Oklahoma include three processing plants and related gathering systems and an interest in a fourth processing plant.
 
Funds from the sale were used to reduce ONEOK's short-term debt. Since December 31, 2001, ONEOK's total debt has been reduced by $576 million.
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 
ONEOK, Inc. is a diversified energy company involved primarily in oil and gas production, natural gas processing, gathering, storage and transmission in the mid-continent areas of the United States. The company's energy marketing and trading operations provide service to customers in 28 states. The company is also the largest natural gas distributor in Kansas and Oklahoma, operating as Kansas Gas Service and Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, serving 1.4 million customers. ONEOK is a Fortune 500 company.
 
Statements contained in this release that include company expectations or predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Any additional information regarding factors that could cause actual results to materially differ is found in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 


