FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20021015131051.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.    
Item 5
Other Events
 
On October 11, 2002, ONEOK Inc. announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell certain midstream gas processing assets for $92 million to an affiliate of Mustang Fuel Corporation, a private, independent oil and gas company, headquartered in Oklahoma City.
 
The assets, located in North Central Oklahoma, include three gas processing plants and related gas gathering systems and an interest in a fourth gas processing plant. Closing is expected on or before November 15, 2002.
 
Closing of the transaction requires antitrust clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act.
 
.    
Item 7
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(a)    Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
 
Not applicable.
 
(b)    ProForma Financial Information
 
Not applicable.
 
(c)    Exhibits
 
99.1    Press release issued by ONEOK, Inc. dated October 11, 2002.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Tulsa, Oklahoma  ONEOK, Inc., (NYSE:OKE) announced today that it has entered into an agreement to sell certain midstream assets for $92 million to an affiliate of Mustang Fuel Corporation, a private, independent oil and gas company, headquartered in Oklahoma City.
 
The assets located in North Central Oklahoma include three processing plants and related gathering systems and an interest in a fourth processing plant. Closing is expected on or before November 15, 2002. The agreement requires antitrust clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act.
 
David Kyle, chairman, president and chief executive officer, of ONEOK said, "These midstream natural gas assets aren't considered core assets for ONEOK's future. Our announced strategy remains unchanged. We will continue to grow the company by using our asset baseboth acquiring and divesting assetsto position ONEOK for greater growth and value in the future. We will also use opportunities like this to strengthen our balance sheet going forward."
 
 
ONEOK, Inc. is a diversified energy company involved primarily in oil and gas production, natural gas processing, gathering, storage and transmission in the mid-continent areas of the United States. The company's energy marketing and trading operations provide service to customers in 28 states. The company is also the largest natural gas distributor in Kansas and Oklahoma, operating as Kansas Gas Service and Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, serving 1.4 million customers.
 
 


