FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20030806060153.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.
Other Events
 
All references in this Form 8-K to "we," "our," "us" or similar references mean ONEOK, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
 
Westar Energy, Inc., and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Westar Industries, Inc., (collectively, "Westar") have priced a secondary offering of 9.5 million shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $19.00 per share, which will result in gross offering proceeds to Westar of approximately $180.5 million. We will not receive any proceeds from this offering.
 
Since Westar will receive in excess of $150 million of total proceeds from the offering, we will repurchase $50 million, or approximately 2.6 million shares of our common stock from Westar at the public offering price of $19.00 per share immediately following closing of the offering.
 
Of the shares being sold in the Westar public offering, approximately 7.9 million shares will represent our common stock issuable upon conversion of our $0.925 Series D Non-Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock owned by Westar. The remaining shares consist of approximately 1.6 million shares of our common stock owned by Westar.
 
As a result of the offering and repurchase transactions, and excluding the shares covered by the underwriter's over-allotment option, Westar will beneficially own approximately 15% of our stock, assuming the conversion of the remaining shares of our $0.925 Series D Non-Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
Item 7.
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
99.1 Press release issued by ONEOK, Inc. dated August 5, 2003.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Tulsa, Okla.  ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) announced today that Westar Energy, Inc. (NYSE: WR) and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Westar Industries, Inc. (collectively, "Westar"), has priced a secondary offering of 9.5 million shares of ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) common stock at a public offering price of $19.00 per share, which will result in gross offering proceeds to Westar of approximately $180.5 million. ONEOK will not receive any proceeds from the offering.
 
As a result of Westar receiving in excess of $150 million of total proceeds from the offering, ONEOK will repurchase $50 million, or approximately 2.6 million shares of its common stock from Westar at the public offering price of $19.00 per share immediately following closing of the offering.
 
Of the shares being sold in the public offering, approximately 7.9 million shares will represent ONEOK common stock issuable upon conversion of ONEOK $0.925 Series D Non-Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock owned by Westar. The remaining shares consist of approximately 1.6 million shares of ONEOK common stock owned by Westar.
 
JPMorgan is the sole underwriter for the offering and has been granted an option by Westar to purchase up to an additional 1.425 million shares of ONEOK common stock to cover over-allotments, if any.
 
As a result of the offering and repurchase transactions, and excluding the shares covered by the underwriter's over-allotment option, Westar will beneficially own approximately 15% of ONEOK's stock, assuming the conversion of the remaining shares of ONEOK $0.925 Series D Non-Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
ONEOK, Inc.
Westar Energy to Sell a Portion of its ONEOK Stock Holdings
August 5, 2003
Page 2
 
A prospectus supplement relating to the public offering will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of the prospectus supplement relating to the offering and the underlying prospectus may be obtained from J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Chase Distribution & Support Service, 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, Floor 5B, New York, NY 10081. Copies can also be obtained by e-mail at Addressing.Services@jpmchase.com.
 
This news release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities described herein, nor will there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities law of any such jurisdiction.
 
 
ONEOK, Inc. is a diversified energy company involved primarily in oil and gas production, natural gas processing, gathering, storage and transmission in the mid-continent areas of the United States. The company's energy marketing and trading operations provide service to customers in most states. The company is the largest natural gas distributor in Kansas and Oklahoma, and the third largest in Texas, operating as Kansas Gas Service, Oklahoma Natural Gas and Texas Gas Service, almost 2.0 million customers. ONEOK is a Fortune 500 company.
 
 
 
Some of the statements contained and incorporated in this release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements relate to the anticipated financial performance, management's plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions and other matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements in various circumstances. The following discussion is intended to identify important factors that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements include the items identified in the preceding paragraph, the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations and other statements contained or incorporated in this release identified by words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "believe," "projection" or "goal."
 
You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause the Company's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Those factors may affect the Company's operations, markets, products, services and prices. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with the forward-looking statements, factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statement include, among others, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ONEOK, Inc.
Westar Energy to Sell a Portion of its ONEOK Stock Holdings
August 5, 2003
Page 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other factors and assumptions not identified above were also involved in the making of the forward-looking statements. The failure of those assumptions to be realized, as well as other factors, may also cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.


