FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20031219154559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 19, 2003, ONEOK, Inc. (the "Company") announced earnings guidance for 2004 in the range of $2.12 to $2.18 per share of common stock. This guidance includes the Wagner & Brown Ltd. reserve acquisition announced in late October and expected to close on December 22, 2003.
 
The Company reaffirms its previous guidance for 2003 in the range of $2.08 to $2.12 per share of common stock coming from continuing operations and expects the final number to be in the upper end of the range. However, the Company made business segment adjustments to the previously released 2003 forecast primarily based upon commodity price movements and weather.
 
Some of the statements contained and incorporated in this form 8-K and the attached exhibits are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements relate to the anticipated financial performance, management's plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions and other matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements in various circumstances. The following discussion is intended to identify important factors that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements include the items identified in the preceding paragraph, the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations and other statements contained or incorporated in this release identified by words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "believe," "projection" or "goal."
 
You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause the Company's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Those factors may affect the Company's operations, markets, products, services and prices. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with the forward-looking statements, factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statement include, among others, the following:
 
 
 
Other factors and assumptions not identified above were also involved in the making of the forward-looking statements. The failure of those assumptions to be realized, as well as other factors, may also cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
 
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Tulsa, Okla. ONEOK, Inc. today announced earnings guidance for 2004 in the range of $2.12 to $2.18 per share of common stock. This guidance includes the Wagner & Brown Ltd. reserve acquisition announced in late October and expected to close on December 22, 2003.
 
The company reaffirms its previous guidance for 2003 in the range of $2.08 to $2.12 per share of common stock coming from continuing operations and expects the final number to be at the upper end of the range. However, ONEOK business segment adjustments have been made to the previous 2003 forecast primarily based upon commodity price movements and weather. The business segment breakout is provided in the attached financial table.
 
ONEOK president, chief executive officer and chairman, David Kyle, said, "It looks like we will finish fiscal 2003 strong, and I am pleased with the outlook for 2004, especially considering our estimate of a $14 million increase in health care and post-employment benefit costs."
 
Production
 
The $240 million acquisition of the East Texas reserves from Wagner & Brown Ltd. includes approximately 177.2 Bcf of gas equivalent of proved gas reserves, with additional probable and possible gas reserves potential. The acquisition also includes a small gathering system that will provide a slight benefit to the Transportation and Storage segment.
 
This transaction will be financed through short-term borrowings initially and longer term may be financed with available cash or the issuance of equity or a combination of both. This guidance assumes fifty percent debt and fifty percent equity applicable to the acquisition.
 
For 2004, operating income for the segment is expected to increase with the Wagner & Brown Ltd. acquisition by 220 percent to $48 million, which includes depreciation of $29 million. Capital expenditures are estimated at $43 million, which is an increase over 2003 due to anticipated drilling resulting from the acquisition.
 
ONEOK announces 2004 guidance
December 19, 2003
Page 2
 
Annual natural gas production should be approximately 18 Bcf with an anticipated average wellhead price of $5.10 per Mcf. More than 89 percent of the expected volumes are hedged. Oil production for the year is estimated to be over 400 MBbls at an average price of about $29 per barrel.
 
Gathering and Processing
 
Operating income in 2004 is expected to be comparable to 2003. Sales margins are expected to be lower due to lower natural gas liquids (NGL) prices (54 cents verses 58 cents per gallon). Natural gas prices are projected for 2004 at an average NYMEX price of $5.40, which is close to the price experienced this year. Crude oil is projected at an average price of slightly over $30 per barrel. Contract changes and anticipated new projects will have a positive impact on operating income for the year while higher costs of new storage regulations, increased depreciation expenses and changes in depreciation rates will have a negative impact.
 
In as much as commodity prices will impact results, the following gathering and processing pricing sensitivities are provided:
 
 
These sensitivities reflect no change in operating conditions as a result of price changes. Actual results will reflect the impact of prices and the changes in operations to mitigate or enhance results from price movement.
 
Changes in operating conditions could include such items as the contract mix of the processing plants and the daily operating mode that changes the NGL production at each plant based on exposure to commodity prices. And in some cases there is a month-to-month election as to whether natural gas is processed under percent of proceeds, fee arrangements or keep whole arrangements.
 
Transportation and Storage
 
Operating income in 2004 is expected to be comparable to 2003. Sales margins will be higher primarily due to efforts to improve contracts and the inclusion of a large generation sales customer for the entire year.
 
Operating costs will be higher as a result of additional costs related to compliance with various pipeline integrity requirements across our operating systems. Depreciation expenses are also expected to be somewhat higher during 2004.
 
 
ONEOK announces 2004 guidance
December 19, 2003
Page 3
 
Included in the guidance for 2004 is a small gathering system that is part of the Wagner & Brown Ltd. acquisition. The earnings impact on Transportation and Storage is anticipated to be $1.6 million.
 
Distribution
 
Operating income will receive a boost from the rate order received in Kansas in September 2003 since the rates will be in effect for a full twelve months in 2004. In Oklahoma, an October 2003 rate filing is set for hearing on January 6, 2004. The Oklahoma Corporation Commission (OCC) staff and the Oklahoma Attorney General have filed their responses to the company's filing with the OCC, both recommending increases. Guidance reflects:
 
 
The bulk of the increased employee benefit costs will be in the distribution businesses since 70 percent of the company's employees work in distribution.
 
Marketing and Trading
 
Operating income is forecast to be $182 million based on a more normal year of price volatility, especially as compared to the first quarter of 2003. The revenues for Marketing and Trading are expected to come from the following three sources:
 
 
 
 
ONEOK announces 2004 guidance
December 19, 2003
Page 4
 
Other Issues
 
 
 
ONEOK, Inc., is a diversified energy company involved primarily in oil and gas production, natural gas processing, gathering, storage and transmission in the mid-continent areas of the United States. The company's energy marketing and trading operations provide service to customers in most states. The company is the largest natural gas distributor in Kansas and Oklahoma, and the third largest in Texas, operating as Kansas Gas Service, Oklahoma Natural Gas and Texas Gas Service, serving almost 2 million customers. ONEOK is a Fortune 500 company.
 
Statements contained in this release that include company expectations or predictions are forward looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Any additional information regarding factors that could cause actual results to materially differ is found in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
ONEOK announces 2004 guidance
December 19, 2003
Page 5
 
ONEOK, Inc. and Subsidiaries
EARNINGS FORECAST
 


