FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20030430190012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
Item 9.
 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On April 30, 2003, ONEOK, Inc. announced its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. The press release is furnished pursuant to Item 12 "Results of Operation and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Tulsa, Oklahoma  ONEOK, Inc., (NYSE:OKE) today announced strong first quarter earnings and reaffirmed that its business remains strategically focused on enhancing shareholder value through earnings growth.
 
First quarter 2003 results included:
 
 
 
Business outlook:
 
 
David Kyle, chairman, president and chief executive officer of ONEOK, said, "I am very pleased with the success we had in the first quarter of 2003. Our income from continuing operations increased significantly over the same period a year ago. This reflects a strategy of continuing to focus on core businesses while growing the company."
 
"Also, we are pleased to see a return of accrual accounting practices for certain energy related contracts. Although the transition is confusing, we have always believed that accrual accounting is the best way to provide a transparent picture of the performance of energy trading contracts," he said.
 
Accounting changes implemented in the first quarter 2003:
 
 
First quarter business unit results:
 
Production
 
First quarter operating income increased to $5.7 million from $1.7 million the same period last year on retained properties because of:
 
 
The production segment owns, develops and produces natural gas and oil reserves in Oklahoma. Our strategy is to add value not only to our existing oil and gas production operations, but also to our related marketing, gathering, processing, transportation and storage businesses. We focus on exploitation, rather than exploratory drilling.
 
Gathering and Processing
 
First quarter operating income increased to $7.9 million, up from $1.3 million one year ago due to:
 
 
The gathering and processing segment is engaged in the gathering and processing of natural gas and the fractionation, storage and marketing of natural gas liquids. The segment currently has a processing capacity of approximately 2.0 Bcf/d, of which approximately 0.2 Bcf is currently idle. The capacity, excluding idled capacity, associated with plants owned or operated or leased is approximately 1.7Bcf/d, while the amount of the plant capacity that we own an interest in but do not operate is approximately 0.1 Bcf/d. Our gathering and processing segment owns approximately 14,000 miles of gathering pipelines that supply our gas processing plants.
 
Transportation and Storage
 
First quarter operating income was $15.1 million, a decrease of $1.3 million from the same quarter a year ago, due to:
 
 
The transportation and storage segment owns and operates intrastate transmission pipelines and natural gas transmission pipelines, natural gas storage and nonprocessable gas gathering facilities in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas. The storage facilities have a combined working capacity of 59.6 Bcf, of which 8.0 Bcf is temporarily idle.
 
Distribution
 
First quarter operating income increased to $75 million, compared with $59.9 million the same quarter last year due to:
 
 
The distribution segment includes Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, Kansas Gas Service Company and Texas Gas Service Company. The companies are the largest natural gas distributors in Kansas and Oklahoma and the third largest in Texas. Overall, the companies serve over 2 million customers.
 
Marketing and Trading
 
First quarter operating income increased to $126.9 million, compared to $62.6 million due to:
 
 
OEMT's income is primarily generated from the following revenue sources:
 
The marketing and trading segment purchases, stores, markets and trades natural gas to both the wholesale and retail sectors in most states. Leased storage and transport capacity provide direct access to all regions of the country, with great flexibility in capturing volatility in the energy markets.
 
2003 Guidance
 
2003 operating income is expected to be $440 million. Net income from continuing operations is expected to be $2.03 to $2.08 per diluted share of common stock.
 
Earnings Conference Call
 
The ONEOK first quarter conference call will be held at 10 a.m. Eastern time (9 a.m. Central time) on May 1, 2003. Those who wish, may join the call on the ONEOK Web site at www.oneok.com or call 1-800-693-5698, passcode 3298595.
 
ONEOK, Inc. is a diversified energy company involved primarily in oil and gas production, natural gas processing, gathering, storage and transmission in the mid-continent areas of the United States. The company's energy marketing and trading operations provide service to customers in most states. The company is the largest natural gas distributor in Kansas and Oklahoma, and the third largest in Texas, operating as Kansas Gas Service, Oklahoma Natural Gas Company and Texas Gas Service, serving over 2 million customers. ONEOK is a Fortune 500 company.
 
Some of the statements contained and incorporated in this release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements relate to the anticipated financial performance, management's plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions and other matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements in various circumstances. The following discussion is intended to identify important factors that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements include the items identified in the preceding paragraph, the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations and other statements contained or incorporated in this release identified by words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "believe," "projection" or "goal."
 
You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Those factors may affect our operations, markets, products, services and prices. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with the forward-looking statements, factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statement include, among others, the following:
 
 
Other factors and assumptions not identified above were also involved in the making of the forward-looking statements. The failure of those assumptions to be realized, as well as other factors, may also cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. We have no obligation and make no undertaking to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
ONEOK, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
ONEOK, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
ONEOK, Inc. and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
ONEOK, Inc. and Subsidiaries
EARNINGS FORECAST 2003
 
 
ONEOK, Inc. and Subsidiaries
INFORMATION AT A GLANCE
 
 
 
 


