FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20030207101601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
Item 5.
Other Events
 
On February 5, 2003, ONEOK, Inc. ("the Company") purchased $300 million, or 18.1 million shares (reflecting a previous 2-for-1 stock split), of its Series A Convertible Preferred Stock from Westar Energy. The remaining Series A shares held by Westar were exchanged for 21.8 million shares of the Company's newly-created Series D Convertible Preferred Stock. Also, new shareholder and registration rights agreements between the Company and Westar became effective.
 
As a result of the repurchase and the Company's recently completed common stock offering, Westar's equity interest in the Company has been reduced from approximately 44.4 percent to approximately 27.4 percent on a fully diluted basis.
 
After giving effect to the repurchase of the Series A shares, the exchange of the remaining Series A shares for new Series D shares, and the recently completed common stock offering, the Company will have approximately 96.4 million shares outstanding on a fully diluted basis. Prior to these transactions, the Company's fully diluted shares outstanding were approximately 100.7 million.
 
    
Item 7.
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 4.1
 
 
This certifies that is the owner of () shares, fully paid and nonassessable, of the $0.925 Series D Non-Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of ONEOK, Inc., an Oklahoma corporation, transferable only on the books of the corporation by the holder hereof in person or by duly authorized attorney upon surrender of this certificate properly endorsed.
                                        
                                             
                            
 
This certificate and the shares represented hereby are subject to the General Corporation Act of the State of Oklahoma and to the Certificate of Incorporation and the By-Laws of the corporation, in each case as from time to time amended.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, ONEOK, Inc. has caused this certificate to be signed by its duly authorized officers and its corporate seal to be hereto affixed this day of , 20.
            
                                             
        
 
 
 
THE SHARES OF STOCK REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED. THE SECURITIES HAVE BEEN ACQUIRED FOR INVESTMENT AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED, EXCHANGED, TRANSFERRED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF (i) UNLESS (A) REGISTERED UNDER SUCH ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES AND "BLUE SKY" LAWS OR (B) AN OPINION OF COUNSEL SATISFACTORY TO ONEOK, INC. (THE "COMPANY") THAT SUCH REGISTRATION IS NOT NECESSARY HAS BEEN DELIVERED TO THE COMPANY OR (ii) UNLESS SOLD PURSUANT TO AND IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144 OF SUCH ACT AND APPLICABLE SECURITIES OR "BLUE SKY" LAWS.
 
IN ADDITION, TRANSFERS, VOTING AND OTHER MATTERS IN RESPECT OF THE SHARES OF STOCK REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE SUBJECT TO A SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENT DATED AS OF JANUARY 9, 2003, AS AMENDED, AMONG THE COMPANY, WESTAR ENERGY, INC. AND WESTAR INDUSTRIES, INC., A COPY OF WHICH AGREEMENT IS ON FILE AT THE PRINCIPAL OFFICE OF THE COMPANY AND MAY BE OBTAINED WITHOUT CHARGE UPON WRITTEN REQUEST TO THE COMPANY.
 
 
The preferences, voting powers, qualifications and special and relative rights of the shares of stock of each class and series of the corporation are set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of the Designations, Powers, Preferences and Relative, Participating, Optional or Other Rights, and the Qualifications, Limitations or Restrictions thereof, of $0.925 Series D Non-Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of ONEOK, Inc. The corporation will furnish a copy of the Certificate of Incorporation to the holder of this certificate without charge upon written request.
 
 
For value received, hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto Shares represented by the within certificate, and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint Attorney to transfer the said Shares on the books of the within named Corporation with full power of substitution in the premises.
                                        
                                                                                      
                                                                 
 
Dated , 20            .
                                         
        
 
 
Witness

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
This AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made as of February 5, 2003, by and among ONEOK, INC., an Oklahoma corporation (the "Company"), WESTAR ENERGY, INC., a Kansas corporation ("Parent") and WESTAR INDUSTRIES, INC., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (the "Shareholder").
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company, Parent and Shareholder have previously entered into that certain Shareholder Agreement, dated as of January 9, 2003 (the ""); and
Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Company, Parent and Shareholder desire to amend the Agreement pursuant to Section 7.5 thereof upon the terms and conditions set forth herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
 
"(b)  Transfers of Subject Securities to the public in a bona fide underwritten offering pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement; , , that Parent, the Shareholder and the representative or representatives of the underwriters previously agree in writing with the Company that all reasonable efforts will be made to achieve a wide distribution of the Subject Securities in such offering and to ensure that no Transferee in such offering acquires for its own account Beneficial Ownership of Securities representing upon Transfer 5.0% or more of the then outstanding Common Stock (assuming the conversion of all shares of Series D Preferred Stock to be Transferred into shares of Common Stock)."
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, Parent and the Shareholder have duly executed this Amendment as of the first date written above.
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.2
 
 
This STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this "") is made as of February 5, 2003, by and among ONEOK, INC., an Oklahoma corporation (the ""), WESTAR ENERGY, INC., a Kansas corporation ("") and WESTAR INDUSTRIES, INC., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of Parent (the "").
Agreement
Company
Parent
Shareholder
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company, Parent and Shareholder previously entered into that certain Transaction Agreement dated as of January 9, 2003 (the ""), pursuant to which the Company recently conducted a public offering (the "") of shares of its common stock, $0.01 per share (the "") and certain other securities;
Transaction Agreement
Offering
Common Stock
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Transaction Agreement, the Company agreed to use a portion of the proceeds of the Offering to repurchase from the Shareholder a portion of the Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the "");
Series A Preferred Stock
 
WHEREAS, the Offering was more successful, and generated a greater amount of proceeds, than was originally contemplated by the parties, and the parties desire for the Company to use a portion of such additional proceeds to repurchase additional shares of the Series A Preferred Stock from the Shareholder;
 
WHEREAS, the Kansas Corporation Commission ("") has previously ordered the Parent and the Shareholder to sell some of their non-utility assets in an effort to reduce the debt of the Parent and the Shareholder;
KCC
 
WHEREAS, the repurchase of additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock by the Company will assist the Parent and the Shareholder in complying with the KCC's orders and allow Parent and Shareholder to repay indebtedness as ordered by the KCC; and
 
WHEREAS, the parties intend to accomplish such additional repurchase on substantially the same terms and conditions as those described in the Transaction Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
 
The Company hereby repurchases (the "") from the Shareholder, and the Shareholder hereby sells to the Company, 3,012,919 shares of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock (the "") for an aggregate purchase price of $50,000,000 (the ""), all on the same economic terms and conditions as provided in the Transaction Agreement and as specified in the Closing Statement agreed to by the parties and delivered concurrently herewith. The Shareholder hereby acknowledges receipt by wire transfer of cash in the amount of the Purchase Price, and the Company hereby acknowledges receipt from the Shareholder of a certificate representing the Additional Repurchase Shares accompanied by duly executed stock powers assigning the Additional Repurchase Shares in blank.
Additional Repurchase
Additional Repurchase Shares
Purchase Price
 
 
Section 2.1    .    The Company represents and warrants to the Shareholder as of the date hereof as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
 
(a)    The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Oklahoma and has all necessary corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder.
 
(b)    This Agreement has been duly and validly authorized by the Company and all necessary and appropriate action has been taken by the Company to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder.
 
(c)    This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and assuming due authorization and valid execution and delivery by Parent and the Shareholder, this Agreement is a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
 
(d)    Other than any consents that have already been obtained, no consent, waiver, approval, authorization, exemption, registration, license or declaration is required to be made or obtained by the Company in connection with the (i) execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or (ii) the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
(e)    The execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement and the performance of its obligations hereunder does not and will not (i) conflict with, or result in the breach of any provision of the constitutive documents of the Company; (ii) result in any violation, breach, conflict, default or event of default (or an event which with notice, lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default or event of default), or give rise to any right of acceleration or termination or any additional payment obligation, under the terms of any material contract, agreement or permit to which the Company is a party or by which the Company's assets or operations are bound or affected; or (iii) violate, in any material respect, any federal,
 
state, local or foreign law, statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, judgment, injunction, order or decree ("Law") applicable to the Company.
 
Section 2.2    .    Each of Parent and the Shareholder represents and warrants to the Company as of the date hereof as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Parent and the Shareholder
 
(a)    Each of Parent and the Shareholder has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation and has all necessary corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder.
 
(b)    This Agreement has been duly and validly authorized by each of Parent and the Shareholder and all necessary and appropriate action has been taken by each of Parent and the Shareholder to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder.
 
(c)    This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each of Parent and the Shareholder and assuming due authorization and valid execution and delivery by the Company, this Agreement is a valid and binding obligation of each of Parent and the Shareholder, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
 
(d)    Other than any consents that have already been obtained, no consent, waiver, approval, authorization, exception, registration, license or declaration, including any additional consents or approvals of the KCC, is required to be made or obtained by either Parent or the Shareholder in connection with (i) the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or (ii) the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
(e)    The execution and delivery by Parent and the Shareholder of this Agreement and the performance of its obligations hereunder does not and will not (i) conflict with, or result in the breach of any provision of the constitutive documents of either Parent or the Shareholder; (ii) result in any violation, breach, conflict, default or event of default (or an event which with notice, lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default or event of default), or give rise to any right of acceleration or termination or any additional payment obligation, under the terms of any material contract, agreement or permit to which either Parent or the Shareholder is a party or by which either Parent or the Shareholder's assets or operations are bound or affected; (iii) violate, in any material respect, any Law applicable to either Parent or the Shareholder; or (iv) violate any order of the KCC.
 
(f)    Upon consummation of the Additional Repurchase, the Company will have valid and marketable title to the Additional Repurchase Shares, free and clear of all title defects, security interests, liens or encumbrances of any nature whatsoever.
 
 
 
Section 3.1    .    This Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the Company, on the one hand, and by Parent and the Shareholder, on the other hand, and their respective successors and permitted assigns, and no such term or provision is for the benefit of, or intended to create any obligations to, any other Person.
Successors and Assigns
 
Section 3.2    .    Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all notices, requests, claims, demands, waivers and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by hand, when delivered personally or by courier, three days after being deposited in the mail (registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested), or when received by facsimile transmission if promptly confirmed by one of the foregoing means, as follows:
Notices
 
If to the Company:
 
ONEOK, Inc.
100 W. Fifth Street
Tulsa, Oklahoma
Attention: Chief Executive Officer
Fax: (918) 588-7961
 
with a copy to:
 
ONEOK, Inc.
100 W. Fifth Street
Tulsa, Oklahoma
Attention: General Counsel
Fax: (918) 588-7971
 
If to Parent:
 
Westar Energy, Inc.
818 Kansas Avenue
Topeka, Kansas 66612
Attention: President
Fax: (785) 575-8061
 
with a copy to:
 
Westar Energy, Inc.
818 Kansas Avenue
Topeka, Kansas 66612
Attention: Corporate Secretary
Fax: (785) 575-1936
 
 
If to the Shareholder:
 
Westar Industries, Inc.
818 Kansas Avenue
Topeka, Kansas 66612
Attention: President
Fax: (785) 575-8061
 
with a copy to:
 
Westar Industries, Inc.
818 Kansas Avenue
Topeka, Kansas 66612
Attention: Corporate Secretary
Fax: (785) 575-1936
 
or to such other address or facsimile number as either party may, from time to time, designate in a written notice given in a like manner.
 
Section 3.3    .    THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.
APPLICABLE LAW
 
Section 3.4    .    The descriptive headings of the several sections in this Agreement are for convenience only and do not constitute a part of this Agreement and shall not be deemed to limit or affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
 
Section 3.5    .    This Agreement and the other writings referred to herein or delivered pursuant hereto which form a part hereof contain the entire understanding of the parties with respect to its subject matter. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to its subject matter. There are no restrictions, agreements, promises, representations, warranties, covenants or undertakings with respect to its subject matter other than those expressly set forth or referred to herein.
Integration
 
Section 3.6    .    If any term or provision of this Agreement or any application thereof shall be declared or held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, in whole or in part, whether generally or in any particular jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed amended to the extent, but only to the extent, necessary to cure such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability, and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions, both generally and in every other jurisdiction, shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
Section 3.7    .    In connection with any suit, claim, action or proceeding arising out of this Agreement, Parent, the Shareholder and the Company each hereby consent to the in personam jurisdiction of the United States federal courts and state courts located in Tulsa, Oklahoma; the Shareholder and the Company each agree that service in the manner set forth in Section 3.2 hereof shall be valid and sufficient for all purposes; and the
Consent to Jurisdiction
 
Shareholder and the Company each agree to, and irrevocably waive any objection based on forum non conveniens or venue, appear in any United States federal court state court located in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
 
Section 3.8    .    This Agreement may be executed by the parties hereto in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, Parent and the Shareholder have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the date set forth at the head of this Agreement.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Financial News
 
 
 
Tulsa, Oklahoma  ONEOK, Inc., (NYSE:OKE), announced today it has purchased $300 million of its Series A Convertible Preferred Stock from Westar Energy (NYSE:WR). In connection with the repurchase, the remaining Series A shares held by Westar were converted into shares of newly-created Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and ONEOK and Westar entered into new shareholder and registration rights agreements.
 
The two companies previously announced that ONEOK would purchase up to $250 million of the Series A shares, and the parties agreed to increase that amount to $300 million in the light of ONEOK's recently completed public offering of common stock and 8.5 percent equity units.
 
ONEOK repurchased 18.1 million shares (reflecting a previous 2-for-1 common stock split) of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock from Westar at a price of $16.60 per share. The remaining Series A shares held by Westar have been exchanged for 21.8 million shares of the newly-created Series D Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
As a result of the repurchase and the recently completed ONEOK common stock offering, Westar's equity interest in ONEOK has been reduced from approximately 44.4 percent to approximately 27.4 percent on a fully diluted basis.
 
After giving effect to the repurchase of the Series A shares, the exchange of the remaining Series A shares for new Series D shares and the recently completed ONEOK common stock offering, ONEOK will have approximately 96.4 million shares outstanding on a fully diluted basis. Prior to these transactions, ONEOK's fully diluted shares outstanding were approximately 100.7 million.
 
Some of the principal terms of the new Series D Convertible Preferred Stock are summarized below:
 
 
 
 
unless the annual per share dividend for the ONEOK common stock for the previous year is greater than 92.5 cents per share and such conversion would not subject ONEOK to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.
 
ONEOK and Westar Energy have terminated their original shareholder and registration rights agreements and have entered into new agreements. Under the new agreements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ONEOK, Inc., is a diversified energy company involved primarily in oil and gas production, natural gas processing, gathering, storage and transmission in the mid-continent areas of the United States. The company's energy marketing and trading operations provide service to customers in 28 states. The company is the largest natural gas distributor in Kansas and Oklahoma and the third largest in Texas, operating as Kansas Gas Service, Oklahoma Natural Gas and Texas Gas Service, serving 1.9 million customers. ONEOK is a Fortune 500 company.
 
Statements contained in this release relating to future financings, the company's increased capitalization, the impact of accounting issues affecting the company's earnings and other statements made above that include company expectations or predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Any additional information regarding factors that could cause actual results to materially differ is found in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 


