FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20040820144627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tulsa, Okla. -- ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) has a new name for its energy marketing segment -- ONEOK Energy Services Company. Previously named ONEOK Energy Marketing and Trading, the company's name change comes as the result of a review of the entire marketing effort and strategy
.
"The review of our business led us to refocus our emphasis on the physical purchase and sale of natural gas, primarily during periods of peak demand," said Chris Skoog, president of ONEOK Energy Services. "We want to grow our wholesale and retail marketing businesses while de-emphasizing both gas options trading and unhedged pipeline arbitrage. While trading activity will continue to be a part of what we do, we expect it to be a smaller portion of our operating income. The earnings guidance of $2.18 to $2.24 per diluted share of common stock for 2004 previously provided reflects this new approach.
"The new name more clearly differentiates our organization within the industry, as well as in the eyes of our customers, suppliers and investors," he said. "Our business remains focused on providing reliable natural gas deliveries and tailored services that meet our customers' needs. And, our employees have done an excellent job of maintaining the company's image and reputation while meeting their commitments. In fact, these efforts have led us to the number one ranking of large natural gas marketers in the United States as reflected in the most recent Mastio survey," Skoog concluded.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ONEOK, Inc. is a diversified energy company involved primarily in oil and gas production, natural gas processing, gathering, storage and transmission in the mid-continent areas of the United States. The company's energy marketing and trading operations provide service to customers in most states. The company is the largest natural gas distributor in Kansas and Oklahoma, and the third largest in Texas, operating as Kansas Gas Service, Oklahoma Natural Gas and Texas Gas Service, serving almost 2 million customers.


