FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20040621142642.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
99.1 Press release issued by ONEOK, Inc. dated June 18, 2004.
 
Item 9.
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On June 18, 2003, ONEOK, Inc. (the "Company") affirmed earnings guidance for 2004 remains in the range of $2.12 to $2.18 per diluted share of common stock. In addition, the Company updated segment operating income estimates and provided quarterly earnings per share guidance.
 
Some of the statements contained and incorporated in this form 8-K and the attached exhibits are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements relate to the anticipated financial performance, management's plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions and other matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements in various circumstances. The following discussion is intended to identify important factors that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements include the items identified in the preceding paragraph, the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations and other statements contained or incorporated in this release identified by words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "believe," "projection" or "goal."
 
You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause the Company's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Those factors may affect the Company's operations, markets, products, services and prices. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with the forward-looking statements, factors that could cause the
 
Company's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statement include, among others, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other factors and assumptions not identified above were also involved in the making of the forward-looking statements. The failure of those assumptions to be realized, as well as other factors, may also cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. The earnings guidance is provided in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
Tulsa, Okla. ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE:OKE) today affirmed that its earnings guidance for 2004 remains in the range of $2.12 to $2.18 per diluted share of common stock. In addition, the company updated segment operating income estimates and provided quarterly earnings per share guidance.
 
ONEOK President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, David Kyle, said, "The update of ONEOK's earnings outlook primarily reflects an increase in operating income for the gathering and processing segment and a decrease in our marketing and trading segment.
 
"We have not previously provided quarterly earnings guidance for 2004, but in as much as we are almost halfway through the year, we believe it is necessary to provide investors and analysts with the additional guidance. I would like to emphasize that based upon these expectations the company continues to perform well with a stable earnings base."
 
UPDATED SEGMENT ESTIMATES
 
A segment income statement, capital expenditure forecast and cash flow projection for 2004 are included on Attachment I, but the following will highlight the changes:
 
Gathering and Processing
 
Operating income has been increased $26 million to $84 million for 2004 based on the continued effect of higher natural gas liquids to natural gas spreads on keep-whole contracts and higher prices generally for natural gas liquids and natural gas sold under percentage-of-proceeds contracts.
 
ONEOK affirms 2004 guidance;
provides quarterly guidance
June 18, 2004
Page 2
 
Marketing and Trading
 
Projected operating income for this segment has been reduced $27 million to $155 million as reflected below:
 
 
Marketing and storage revenues increased primarily due to the reclassification of $15 million of transportation basis out of trading revenue and into marketing and storage. These financial transactions are typically utilized to hedge future basis spreads under existing transportation contracts on various pipelines.
 
Trading revenues, which include natural gas options, power and crude oil, decreased $31 million to $32 million after removing the $15 million of transportation basis. Because lower volatility in natural gas prices impacts natural gas option margins, we have reduced estimated revenues for our natural gas option strategy. We have also reduced anticipated power trading margins. We are evaluating our overall trading strategy in light of these reductions.
 
Other Issues
 
 
 
 
QUARTERLY EARNINGS PER SHARE GUIDANCE (CONTINUING OPERATIONS)
 
 
ONEOK affirms 2004 guidance;
Provides quarterly guidance
June 18, 2004
Page 3
 
For the first quarter comparison of 2004 to 2003 please refer to our form 10Q as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The second quarter 2004 earnings are lower than those in 2003 primarily because of projected continued lower volatility in natural gas prices leading to lower options margins. The fourth quarter reflects anticipated greater withdrawals from storage at higher margins than last year.
ONEOK, Inc. is a diversified energy company involved primarily in oil and gas production, natural gas processing, gathering, storage and transmission in the mid-continent areas of the United States. The company's energy marketing and trading operations provide service to customers in most states. The company is the largest natural gas distributor in Kansas and Oklahoma, and the third largest in Texas, operating as Kansas Gas Service, Oklahoma Natural Gas and Texas Gas Service, serving almost 2 million customers.
 
Statements contained in this release that include company expectations or predictions are forward looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Any additional information regarding factors that could cause actual results to materially differ is found in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 


