FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20041220120517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 16, 2004, the Board of Directors of ONEOK, Inc. (the Board) approved amendments to the ONEOK, Inc. 2005 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the 2005 SERP), and the ONEOK, Inc. Employee Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (the Prior Deferred Comp Plan); and adopted the ONEOK, Inc. 2005 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (the 2005 Deferred Comp Plan). The plan documents, as amended and adopted, are filed as exhibits to this report.
 
The following is a brief summary of the changes to each of the respective plans.
 
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
 
We have maintained the ONEOK, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the Prior SERP) for more than twenty years as a supplemental retirement benefit plan for certain elected or appointed officers and certain other employees who are in a select group of our management or are highly compensated employees.
 
Benefits payable under the Prior SERP are based upon a specified percentage (reduced for early retirement) of the highest 36 consecutive months' compensation of the participant's last 60 months of service. The Prior SERP provides that in any case, it will pay to a participant a retirement benefit at least equal to the benefit that would be payable to the participant under our qualified retirement plan if limitations on benefits imposed under the Internal Revenue Code were not applicable, less the benefit payable under our qualified retirement plan subject to those limitations. Benefits under the Prior SERP are to be paid to a participant concurrently with the payment of retirement benefits under our qualified retirement plan.
 
On August 19, 2004 our Board approved certain amendments to the Prior SERP, including amendments providing that the Prior SERP would terminate and be frozen effective December 31, 2004, as to eligibility of any new participants and the accrual of further or additional benefits. Participants in the Prior SERP are vested in the accrued benefits as of December 31, 2004, but no further benefits will accrue after that date.
 
Also on August 19, 2004, our Board adopted the 2005 SERP to become effective January 1, 2005. The 2005 SERP provides for benefits for officers and a select group of our management or highly compensated employees in the same way as the Prior SERP. The retirement benefits under the 2005 SERP are to be calculated and payable to participants in essentially the same manner as the Prior SERP, and are also payable concurrently with retirement plan benefits. However, the 2005 SERP provides that officers or employees may be selected for participation in either a supplemental retirement benefit, or an excess retirement benefit, or both of those forms of benefits. The supplemental retirement benefit is based upon the highest 36 consecutive months of compensation of a participant's last 60 months of service; and the excess retirement
 
benefit is the amount that would be received by a participant under our qualified retirement plan if the limitations under the Internal Revenue Code were not applicable, less the participant's benefit payable under the retirement plan. If a participant is eligible for both the supplemental retirement benefit and the excess retirement benefit, the latter is treated as an offset that reduces the supplemental retirement benefit.
 
An officer or employee who remains entitled to benefits under the Prior SERP is not eligible to participate in the 2005 SERP. Eligibility to participate in the 2005 SERP can be conditioned upon an employee's cancellation of entitlement to accrued benefits under the Prior SERP. For most participants in the Prior SERP who are currently employed by us, we anticipate that the 2005 SERP will effectively supercede the Prior SERP, and after December 31, 2004, excess and supplemental retirement benefits will be provided to them solely under the 2005 SERP.
 
On December 16, 2004, our Board adopted certain amendments to the 2005 SERP, to be effective for the first plan year commencing January 1, 2005. These amendments are intended to comply with newly enacted requirements for nonqualified deferred compensation plans under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Code Section 409A). The amendments relate to participant elections with respect to compensation that is deferred under the plan, providing for a specified time and form of payment of benefits, requirements and limitations as to any changes of those benefits after an employee first becomes a plan participant, the addition of other conforming provisions and definitions.
 
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan
 
Our Prior Deferred Comp Plan provides select employees, as approved by the Board, with the option to defer portions of their compensation and provides nonqualified deferred compensation benefits which are not otherwise available due to limitations on employer and employee contributions to qualified defined contribution plans under the federal tax laws. Under the plan, participants have the option to defer their salary and/or bonus compensation to a short-term deferral account, which pays out a minimum of five years from commencement, or to a long-term deferral account, which pays out at retirement or termination of the employment of the participant. Participants are immediately 100 percent vested. Short-term deferral accounts are credited with a deemed investment return based on the five year treasury bond fund. Long-term deferral accounts are credited with a deemed investment return based on various investment options, which, beginning in May 2004, do not include our common stock. At the distribution date, cash is distributed to participants based on the fair market value of the deemed investment of the participant account at that date.
 
On December 16, 2004, our Board approved certain amendments to our Prior Deferred Comp Plan, including amendments providing that the Prior Deferred Comp Plan would terminate and be frozen effective December 31, 2004, as to eligibility of any new participants and the deferral of any compensation by a participant under the Prior
 
Deferred Comp Plan after that date. Participants in the Prior Deferred Comp Plan will be paid compensation they have deferred under the Prior Deferred Comp Plan on or before December 31, 2004, in accordance with the terms of the Prior Deferred Comp Plan.
 
Also, on December 16, 2004, our Board adopted our 2005 Deferred Comp Plan, to become effective January 1, 2005. The 2005 Deferred Comp Plan provides for deferral of compensation and payment of benefits in substantially the same manner as provided under the Prior Deferred Comp Plan, as described above. However, the 2005 Deferred Comp Plan contains certain different provisions intended to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A. Those provisions relate to participant elections to defer compensation, the timing of payments and distributions under the 2005 Deferred Comp Plan, prohibition of any foreign trust for the 2005 Deferred Comp Plan, new defined terms, and certain other conforming provisions and features.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of the ONEOK, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan is to provide the specified benefits to a select group of management and highly compensated employees who contribute materially to the continued growth, development and future business success of ONEOK, Inc., and its subsidiaries. It is the intention of ONEOK, Inc. that the Plan and the particular benefits provided to individuals hereunder be administered as an unfunded deferred compensation and excess benefit plans established and maintained for a select group of management or highly compensated employees.
 
This Plan is an amendment, restatement, and continuation of the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for Employees of ONEOK, Inc. This Amended and Restated Plan replaces all prior documents and amendments and is effective as of the date determined by the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) An acquisition (other than directly from the Company) of any voting securities of the Company (the "Voting Securities") by any "Person" (as the term person is used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act), immediately after which such Person has "Beneficial Ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of twenty percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities; in determining whether a Change in Control has occurred pursuant to this Section 1.1(D), Shares or Voting Securities which are acquired in a "Non-Control Acquisition" (as hereinafter defined) shall not constitute an acquisition which
provided, however,
 
would cause a Change in Control. A "Non-Control Acquisition" shall mean an acquisition by (i) an employee benefit plan (or a trust forming a part thereof) maintained by (A) the Company or (B) any company or other Person of which a majority of its voting power or its voting equity securities or equity interest is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company (for purposes of this definition, a "Related Entity"), (ii) the Company or any Related Entity, or (iii) any Person in connection with a "Non-Control Transaction" (as hereinafter defined);
 
(b) The individuals who, as of November 15, 2001, are members of the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board"), cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the members of the Board of Directors; or, following a Merger which results in a Parent Company, the board of directors of the ultimate Parent Company; , that if the election, or nomination for election by the Company's common stockholders, of any new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board, such new director shall, for purposes of this Plan, be considered as a member of the Incumbent Board; , that no individual shall be considered a member of the Incumbent Board if such individual initially assumed office as a result of either an actual or threatened "Election Contest" (as described in Rule 14a-11 promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board of Directors (a "Proxy Contest"), including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest; or
provided, however
provided further, however
 
(c) The consummation of:
 
(i) A merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company or in which securities of the Company are issued (a "Merger"), unless such Merger is a "Non-Control Transaction." A "Non-Control Transaction" shall mean a Merger where:
 
(A) the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such Merger, own directly or indirectly immediately following such Merger at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of (x) the company resulting from such Merger (the "Surviving Company") if fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Surviving Company is not Beneficially Owned, directly or indirectly by another Person (a "Parent Company"), or (y) if there is one or more Parent Companies, the ultimate Parent Company;
 
(B) the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such Merger constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of (x) the Surviving
 
Company, if there is no Parent Company, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Companies, the ultimate Parent Company; and
 
(C) no Person other than (1) the Company, (2) any Related Entity, (3) any employee benefit plan (or any trust forming a part thereof) that, immediately prior to such Merger was maintained by the Company or any Related Entity, or (4) any Person who, immediately prior to such Merger had Beneficial Ownership of thirty percent (30%) or more of the then outstanding Voting Securities or Shares, has Beneficial Ownership of thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities or common stock of (x) the Surviving Company if there is no Parent Company, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Companies, the ultimate Parent Company.
 
(ii) A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or
 
(iii) The sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to any Person (other than a transfer to a Related Entity or under conditions that would constitute a Non-Control Transaction with the disposition of assets being regarded as a Merger for this purpose or the distribution to the Company's stockholders of the stock of a Related Entity or any other assets).
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing:
 
(A) A Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the then outstanding Shares or Voting Securities if: (1) such acquisition occurs as a result of the acquisition of Shares or Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Shares or Voting Securities then outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of this subparagraph) as a result of the acquisition of Shares or Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional Shares or Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then outstanding Shares or Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall occur, or (2) (a) within five business days after a Change in Control would have occurred (but for the operation of this subparagraph), or if the Subject Person acquired Beneficial Ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the
 
Company's then outstanding Voting Securities inadvertently, then after the Subject Person discovers or is notified by the Company that such acquisition would have triggered a Change in Control (but for the operation of this subparagraph), the Subject Person notifies the Board of Directors that it did so inadvertently, and (b) within two business days after such notification, the Subject Person divests itself of a sufficient number of Shares or Voting Securities so that the Subject Person is the Beneficial Owner of less than twenty percent (20%) of the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities.
 
(B) A Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur if (1) the Shareholder Group (as defined in the Shareholder Agreement) acquires Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the Company's Voting Securities pursuant to the terms of the Shareholder Agreement, by and between WAI, Inc. (now known as ONEOK, Inc.) and Western Resources, Inc. dated as of November 26, 1997 (the "Shareholder Agreement"), until the earlier of (a) the termination of the Shareholder Agreement or (b) the successful consummation of a Buyout Tender Offer as defined in Section 3.6(b) of the Shareholder Agreement, but upon either of such events, the acquisition or existence of such percentage of Beneficial Ownership by Western Resources, Inc. or any of its affiliates shall constitute a Change in Control or (2) the equity securities of the Company owned by the Shareholder Group are in any manner restructured with the approval of a majority of the members of the Incumbent Board (excluding Shareholder Nominees, as defined in the Shareholder Agreement).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) is totally disabled so as to be prevented from any comparable employment with the Company, including a disability resulting from an occupational cause; and
 
(b) will be disabled permanently.
 
 
 
The Plan is intended to be an unfunded deferred compensation and excess benefit plan established and maintained for a select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Company within the meaning of Sections 201(2) and (7), 301(a)(3), (9) and 401(a)(1) of ERISA, and shall be construed, interpreted and administered in accordance with such intended purpose.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an executed Plan Agreement by and between the Participant and the Company does not state or specify a different amount, form and time of payment of a Participant's Retirement Benefit, then the Participant shall be entitled to receive a Retirement Benefit in accordance with Section 4.1.A and Section 4.1.B, below.
 
 
 
 
The Retirement Benefit payment shall commence on the first day of the month following the Participant's Retirement. Provided, however, Retirement Benefit payments shall not commence until the later of (i) the Participant attaining the age of fifty (50), and (ii) the commencement of retirement benefit payments to the Participant under the Retirement Plan.
 
(2) . The amount of a Participant's Retirement Benefit payments will be reduced by reason of early retirement and commencement of payment thereof, based on the following table depending upon the Participant's age when Retirement Benefit payments to the Participant commence:
Adjustment of Retirement Benefit Payments; Early Commencement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a Participant attains age sixty-five (65) prior to his/her Retirement, and prior to January 1, 2005, then such Participant shall be 100% vested regardless of the above schedule. A Participant first attaining age sixty-five (65) after December 31, 2004, shall not result in 100% vesting nor otherwise change the vesting and nonforfeitability of the Participant's Retirement Benefit under the Plan. Retirement Benefits hereunder offsetting the limitations of Internal Revenue Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415(b) shall be immediately fully vested for all purposes.
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant shall designate a Beneficiary to receive benefits under the Plan and the Participant's Plan Agreement by completing the appropriate space in such Plan Agreement. If more than one Beneficiary is named, the shares and/or precedence of each Beneficiary shall be indicated. As a condition to any married Participant designating a Beneficiary other than such Participant's spouse, the Committee may require the spouse's consent. A Participant shall have the right to change the Beneficiary by submitting to the Committee a Change of Beneficiary in the form attached as Appendix II hereof; , , that no change of Beneficiary shall be effective until acknowledged in writing by the Committee. If the Company has any doubt as to the proper Beneficiary to receive payments hereunder, the Company shall have the right to withhold such payments until the matter is finally adjudicated. Any payment made or caused to be made by the Company in good faith and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and a Participant's Plan Agreement shall fully discharge the Company from all further obligations with respect to such payment.
provided
however
 
 
If a Participant is authorized by the Company for any reason, including military, medical, or other, to take a leave of absence from employment, such Participant's Plan Agreement shall remain in effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such funding may be in the form of single premium annuities, or an amount sufficient for the trustee to purchase single premium annuities, or life insurance policies or contracts insuring the lives of Plan Participants, from qualified and financially sound insurance companies, and such other forms or types of investments the Company may select from time to time to provide the applicable vested Retirement Benefits payable under the Plan
 
and Plan Agreements. Such funding and the purchase of insurance, if any, will not relieve the Company of its obligations to pay or cause to be paid the benefits hereunder.
 
The Rabbi Trust may be maintained and administered to also provide for the funding of payment of amounts payable to participants in other deferred compensation and benefit plans of the Company. The funding, investments and administration of the Rabbi Trust in connection with such other separate plan or plans shall be separately administered and accounted for as determined to be necessary and appropriate by the Company and trustee pursuant to the terms of the Rabbi Trust. It shall be permissible for the trustee to invest funds of the Rabbi Trust in one or more forms of investment that is common to plans being funded thereunder.
 
The Rabbi Trust shall be a grantor trust of which the Company is the grantor within the meaning of the Code. The principal of the Rabbi Trust and any earnings thereon shall be held separate and apart from other funds of the Company and shall be used exclusively for the uses and purposes of Participants in the Plan and general creditors of the Company as specified hereinbelow and in the trust instrument. Participants in the Plan and their Beneficiaries shall have no preferred claim on, or any beneficial ownership in any assets of the Rabbi Trust; and any rights created under the Plan or Participant Plan Agreements, and the Rabbi Trust are to be made unsecured contractual rights of Participants and their Beneficiaries against the Company; and assets held by the Rabbi Trust will be subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors under federal and state law in the event of insolvency of the Company.
 
 
Neither the Plan nor a Participant's Plan Agreement, either singly or collectively, in any way obligate the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company, to continue the employment of a Participant with the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company, nor does either limit the right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company at any time and for any reason to terminate the Participant's employment. Termination of a Participant's employment with the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company, for any reason, whether by action of the Company, subsidiary, or Participant, shall immediately terminate the Participant's participation in the Plan and such Participant's Plan Agreement, and all further obligations of either party thereunder, except as may be provided in Article X and the Participant's Plan Agreement. In no event shall the Plan or a Plan Agreement, either singly or collectively, by their terms or implications constitute an employment contract of any nature whatsoever between the Company, or any subsidiary, and a Participant.
 
 
A Participant reserves the right to terminate participation in the Plan and such Participant's Plan Agreement at any time by giving the Company written notice of such termination not less than 30 days (i) prior to the anniversary date of any contract or contracts of
 
insurance on the life of such Participant which may be in force and utilized by the Company in connection with the Plan, or (ii) prior to the date a Participant selects for termination if no insurance contract is in effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retirement Benefits under the Plan and Plan Agreements entered into hereunder shall not be considered compensation for the purpose of computing contributions or benefits under any plan maintained by the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, which is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code.
 
 
No Retirement Benefit, or other right or benefit under the Plan or a Plan Agreement shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge the same shall be void. No Retirement Benefit, or right or benefit under the Plan or under any Plan Agreement shall in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the person entitled to such thereto. If any Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan or a Plan Agreement should become bankrupt or attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right to a benefit under the Plan or under any Plan Agreement, then such right or benefit shall, in the discretion of the Committee, cease, and in such event, the Committee may hold or apply the same or any part thereof for the benefit of such Participant or Beneficiary, his or her spouse, children, or other dependents, or any of them, in such portion as the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, may deem proper.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any corporation which is a subsidiary of the Company may, with the approval of the Board of Directors, adopt the Plan and thereby come within the definition of Company in Article I hereof.
 
 
Notwithstanding anything expressed or implied to the contrary herein, the payment of excess retirement benefits to a retired Plan Participant that commenced under the Plan prior to September 1, 1998, shall be paid in accordance with, and to the extent provided by, the applicable terms and provisions of the Plan in effect prior to September 1, 1998.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100 West Fifth Street
Tulsa, Oklahoma 74102
 
and marked to the attention of the Secretary, Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Administrative Committee; or, if notice to a Participant, addressed to the address shown on such Participant's most recent employment file with the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE FOLLOWING FORM OF ONEOK, INC. SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT AGREEMENT IS A DRAFT MODEL FORM OF AGREEMENT FOR USE BY THE COMPANY AND EACH PLAN PARTICIPANT.
 
EACH PLAN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND A PARTICIPANT EXECUTED UNDER THE PLAN SHALL CONTAIN THE PARTICULAR TERMS AND PROVISIONS AGREED TO BY THE COMPANY AND PARTICIPANT, WHICH MAY DIFFER FROM THE MODEL FORM OF AGREEMENT SHOWN HEREIN. EACH SUCH PLAN AGREEMENT SHALL BE EFFECTIVE AND BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS THEREOF NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY WHICH MAY BE EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED IN THE MODEL FORM OF AGREEMENT SHOWN AS AN EXAMPLE IN THIS APPENDIX I.
 
I acknowledge that, as an Employee of ONEOK, Inc., I have been offered an opportunity to participate in the ONEOK, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (Plan) described in the attached document (which is incorporated herein by reference), and that I have elected one of the alternatives set forth as indicated by the space which I have checked:
 
To participate in the Plan
                
 
Not to participate in the Plan
                
 
My Retirement Benefit, Disability Benefit, Death Benefit, and commencement of such payments, and designated Beneficiary(ies) are agreed to be as follows:
 
1.A (Article IV of Plan). Subject to Paragraph 2, below, and the vesting schedule in Paragraph 5, below, a monthly amount which, when combined with existing pension benefits payable to me under the Retirement Plan and any retirement plans (other than 401(k) plans) of any of my former employers, will provide the percentage of the highest thirty-six (36) consecutive months average Compensation (or average of all months of Compensation if employed less than thirty-six (36) months) of the last sixty (60) months of Service, for life (15 years minimum) as illustrated below.
Retirement Benefit
 
 
 
The Retirement Benefit payment shall commence on the first day of the month following my Retirement. Provided, however, Retirement Benefit payments shall not commence until the later of (i) my attaining the age of fifty (50), and (ii) the commencement of retirement benefit payments to me under the Retirement Plan.
 
1.B . The amount of my Retirement Benefit payments will be reduced by reason of early retirement and commencement of payment thereof, based on the following table depending upon my age when Retirement Benefit payments to me commence:
Adjustment of Retirement Benefit Payments; Early Commencement
 
 
2. . Notwithstanding Paragraphs 1A and 1B above, the Plan and this Plan Agreement shall provide a Retirement Benefit attributable to my annual eligible compensation under the Retirement Plan that is in excess of the limitations on my Retirement Plan benefits contained in Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415(b). This portion of the Retirement Benefit will be computed by applying the same benefit formula, vesting provisions, and early retirement provisions as are in the Retirement Plan. Any part of the Retirement Benefit provided under this Paragraph 2 will offset and reduce that part of the Retirement Benefit provided under Paragraphs 1A and 1B above.
Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415(b) Limitations
 
3. (Article IV of Plan). If I should suffer a Total and Permanent Disability prior to my Retirement, an amount which, when combined with then existing pension benefits under the Retirement Plan and any retirement plans (other than 401(k) plans) of any of my former employers, will provide sixty-one and 7/10 percent (61.7%) of my highest thirty-six (36) consecutive months average Compensation (or average of all months of Compensation if
Disability Benefit
 
employed less than thirty-six (36) months) of my last sixty (60) months of Service, for life (15 years minimum).
 
4. . (Article III of Plan). If my death should occur before my Retirement, an amount which, when combined with then existing pension benefits under the Retirement Plan and any retirement plans (other than 401(k) plans) of any of my former employers, will provide fifty percent (50%) (or the vested Retirement Benefit, whichever is greater) of my highest thirty-six (36) consecutive months average Compensation (or average of all months of Compensation if employed less than thirty-six (36) months) of my last sixty (60) months of Service, payable to the Beneficiary for one hundred eighty (180) months following death.
Death Benefit
 
5. . The Retirement Benefit payable to me shall unconditionally vest and become nonforfeitable according to the following vesting schedule:
Vesting Schedule
 
 
If I attain age sixty-five (65) prior to Retirement, I shall be 100% vested regardless of the above schedule. Retirement Benefits hereunder offsetting the limitations of Internal Revenue Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415(b) shall be immediately fully vested for all purposes.
 
6. . I hereby designate as my Primary Beneficiary under the Plan and the Plan Agreement: and, I hereby designate as my Secondary Beneficiary under the Plan and the Plan Agreement: .
Beneficiary
                                                                                                                                            
                                                     
 
The term "Beneficiary" as used herein shall mean the Primary Beneficiary if such Primary Beneficiary is an individual and such individual shall survive me by at least thirty (30) days, and shall mean the Secondary Beneficiary if such an individual Primary Beneficiary does not survive me by at least thirty (30) days, and shall mean my Estate, if neither Primary nor a Secondary Beneficiary who is an individual survives me by at least thirty (30) days. I shall have the right to change my designation of my Primary and/or Secondary Beneficiary from time to time, in such manner as shall be required by the Company, it being agreed that no change in Beneficiary shall
 
be effective until acknowledged in writing by the Committee. (If designation of a Beneficiary is to be irrevocable, strike and initial previous sentence.)
 
I further acknowledge that neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries, affiliated companies, officers, employees, or agents has any responsibility whatsoever for the changes which I may make in other personal plans or programs as a result of my decision regarding the Plan and they are fully released to such extent. The Company agrees that although the Plan may be terminated or modified at any time, in the sole discretion of the Company, I shall have those rights which are vested and nonforfeitable under the terms and provisions of this Plan Agreement to the extent such may be applicable to me at the time of such termination.
 
7. . This Agreement is entered into and executed by me and the Company pursuant to, and as a part of the Plan. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or this Plan Agreement, the terms and provisions of this Plan Agreement shall control in the event of any conflict between its terms and provisions and the terms of the Plan. It is intended that this Plan Agreement shall specifically state the amount, form and time of payment of my Retirement Benefit, and the vesting schedule to be applicable to my Retirement Benefit. This Plan Agreement shall be construed so as to be performed in a manner consistent with express terms and provisions of the Plan, unless there is a clear and express inconsistency, in which case the terms of this Plan Agreement shall control.
Plan
 
8. . No amendment of this Plan Agreement shall be effective unless agreed to in a written document signed by me and the Company. The Company may terminate this Agreement in event of a termination of the Plan; provided, no termination of the Plan and no amendment of the Plan or of this Plan Agreement shall result in a decrease or forfeiture of my vested accrued Retirement Benefit under the Plan and this Plan Agreement as of the date of such termination or amendment, as more particularly provided for under the provisions of Section 10.2 of the Plan on the date of this Plan Agreement.
Amendment; Termination
 
9. . Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, I agree on behalf of myself and of my executors and administrators, heirs, legatees, distributees, and any other person or persons claiming any benefits under me under this Agreement, that this Agreement and its rights, interests, and benefits shall not be assigned, transferred, pledged, or hypothecated in any way by me or any executor, administrator, heir, legatee, distributee, or other person claiming under me by virtue of this Agreement, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment, or similar process. Any attempted assignment, transfer, pledge or hypothecation, or other disposition of this Agreement or of such rights, interests, and benefits contrary to the above provisions, or the levy of any such attachment or similar process thereupon, shall be null and void and without effect.
Restriction of Assignment
 
10. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor of the Company, and any such successor shall be deemed substituted for the Company under the terms of this Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the term "successor" shall include any person, firm, corporation, or other business entity which at any time, whether by merger, purchase, or otherwise, acquires all or substantially all of the Company's assets or business.
Binding Effect
 
11. . This Agreement supersedes all other agreements previously made between the Company and me relating to its subject matter. There are no other understandings or agreements.
Entire Agreement
 
12. . No delay or failure by either the Company or me in exercising any right under this Agreement, and no partial or single exercise of such right, shall constitute a waiver of that or any other right.
Non-Waiver
 
13. . Except as otherwise provided by ERISA, this Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Oklahoma.
Governing Law
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, ONEOK, Inc. and Plan Participant have executed the Plan Agreement as of , 200.
                    
    
 
 
 
 
I, , as a Participant in the above Plan, hereby change my Beneficiary Designation for the Plan, and make this my Beneficiary Designation to supercede and replace any and all other prior Beneficiary Designation instruments, as follows:
                                                 
 
Primary Beneficiary(ies):
 
 
Secondary Beneficiary(ies):
 
 
The "Beneficiary" designated to receive my benefits under the Plan shall mean the Primary Beneficiary(ies) designated above, who shall receive the respective share percentage(s) specified above if such Primary Beneficiary(ies) is an individual and survives me by at least thirty (30) days, and if any individual designated as Primary Beneficiary does not so survive me then such Beneficiary's share shall be received by any other designated Primary Beneficiary(ies) who does so survive me, each in the proportion of such surviving Beneficiary's share percentage stated above to the total of such stated share percentages of the Primary Beneficiary(ies) who so survive me. If none the Primary Beneficiaries designated above who are individuals so survive me, and there are no other designated Primary Beneficiary(ies) who is not an individual, then my benefits under the Plan shall be received by the Secondary Beneficiaries designated above, who shall receive the respective share percentages specified above if such Secondary Beneficiary (ies) who is an individual survives me by at least thirty (30) days, and if any designated Secondary Beneficiary who is an individual does not so survive me then such Beneficiary's share shall be received by any other designated Secondary Beneficiary(ies) who does so survive me, proportionately divided in the same manner as is described above with respect to Primary Beneficiaries. I shall have the right to change designation of my Primary Beneficiary(ies) and/or Secondary Beneficiary(ies) from time to time in such manner and on such form as shall be required prescribed by the Company, it being agreed that no change in beneficiary shall be effective until acknowledged in writing by the Committee.
 
 
Signature of the above Participant witnessed this day of , , in the presence of:
            
                    
            
 
 
 
I, the undersigned spouse of the Participant named in the foregoing "Change of Beneficiary Form" hereby certify that I have read the Change of Beneficiary Form and fully understand the property and benefits subject to designation of a beneficiary or beneficiaries is my spouse's accrued benefit under the Plan, in which I may possess a beneficial interest, provided I survive my spouse. Being fully satisfied with the provisions and effect of the foregoing Change of Beneficiary Form, I hereby consent to and accept the designation of beneficiaries made therein without regard to whether I survive or predecease my spouse. I intend for this consent to be irrevocable and my spouse may make any further changes in the designation of his beneficiary or beneficiaries without my consent.
 
I have executed this consent this day of . .
            
                    
            
 
 
Signature of spouse witnessed this day of . in the presence of:
            
                    
            
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of the ONEOK, Inc. 2005 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan is to provide the specified benefits to employees who are in a select group of management or highly compensated employees who contribute materially to the continued growth, development and future business success of ONEOK, Inc., and its subsidiaries, effective January 1, 2005. It is the intention of ONEOK, Inc. that the Plan and the particular benefits provided to individuals hereunder be administered as an unfunded deferred compensation and excess benefit plans established and maintained for a select group of management or highly compensated employees.
 
This Plan is a new and separate plan, and except as otherwise expressly provided herein, is not a continuation, successor plan to, or an amendment or restatement of the preexisting and separate ONEOK, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as terminated and frozen pursuant to the terms thereof, effective December 31, 2004 (hereinafter referred to as the "Prior Frozen SERP"). It is intended that no individual shall be entitled to benefit under the both the Prior Frozen SERP and this Plan.
 
The Plan is intended to meet all requirements of Section 409A of the Code for compensation deferred under the Plan to not be includible in gross income of the Participant until actually paid or distributed pursuant to the Plan.
 
 
 
The provisions of Part A of the Plan shall establish and provide excess retirement benefits to Employees of the Company who are (i) in a select group of management or highly compensated employees of the Company within the meaning of Sections 201(a)(7), 301(a)(9) and 401(a)(1) of ERISA, and (ii) selected to participate in Excess Retirement Benefits pursuant to the terms and provisions of this Part A of the Plan. The Excess Retirement Benefits provided to participants under Part A of the Plan are separate and independent from Supplemental Retirement Benefits provided under Part B of the Plan.
 
 
 
In order to be eligible to be selected as a Part A Participant in the Plan pursuant to Section 2.2 of this Article II, below, an Employee must be in a select group of management or highly compensated employees of the Company, as determined by the Chief Executive Officer, or the Committee in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, in the Chief Executive Officer's (or Committee's, as applicable)sole and absolute discretion.
 
An eligible Employee may become a Part A Participant in the Plan only by being selected for participation pursuant to Section 2.2 of this Article II, below.
 
 
Provided, that no Employee who is a participant in the Prior Frozen SERP or entitled to receive any benefit or payment under the Prior Frozen SERP shall be selected to be a Part A Participant in the Plan; and it may be made a condition to the selection of an eligible Employee as a Part A Participant that such Employee shall have elected in writing to completely terminate his/her participation in the Prior Frozen SERP and waive all his/her entitlement to any benefit or payment under the Prior Frozen SERP; and notwithstanding anything otherwise provided herein, any eligible Employee who becomes a Part A Participant shall be deemed to consent and agree that his/her participation in Part A of the Plan shall supersede and cancel any entitlement he/she had to any benefit or payment under the Prior Frozen SERP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. Provided, that except in the case of and to the extent of a Key Employee Required Deferral, a Part A Participant shall be entitled to make a Subsequent Election to change the date of distribution and payment of his/her Excess Retirement Benefit from his/her Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date to the Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date resulting from such election, if:
 
(i) he/she does not commence receiving payment of his/her Retirement Plan Benefit on or before his/her Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date,
 
(ii) he/she makes a corresponding Subsequent Election with respect to the Supplemental Retirement Benefit, if any, he/she is entitled to under Part B of the Plan, and
 
(iii) he/she delivers a written notification of such Subsequent Election to the Committee,  , or its designee, in the form it prescribes, not less than twelve (12) months prior to his/her Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date.
 
The Committee, in its discretion, may allow a Part A Participant to make a Subsequent Election as to any Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date established for the payment of his/her Excess Retirement Benefit under and subject to the same conditions and requirements as set forth above in this paragraph 3.2.B.
 
Provided, that notwithstanding the foregoing, a Subsequent Election deferral will always occur pursuant to a Part A Participant's initial Election in any case in which he/she does not commence receiving his/her Retirement Plan Benefit on his/her Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date, or on or before a Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement
 
Date, in accordance with paragraph D of this Section 3.2, below, notwithstanding that no other written notification is delivered by him/her pursuant to the foregoing provisions.
 
C. Notwithstanding anything otherwise provided in the Plan or in any Election or Subsequent Election of a Part A Participant, any Subsequent Election made under the Plan shall result in the first payment with respect to which such Subsequent Election is made being deferred for a period of five (5) years from the date such payment would otherwise have been made; the payment and distribution of any Excess Retirement Benefit and any Supplemental Retirement Benefit to which a Part A Participant is entitled under the Plan shall in all cases be made simultaneously; and the payment and distribution of such Excess Retirement Benefit and Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall in no case commence or be made prior to the commencement of payment of such Part A Participant's Retirement Plan Benefit.
 
D. Provided, further, that if the payment of the Retirement Plan Benefit to which a Part A Participant is entitled for any reason does not commence on or before his/her Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date, or a then existing Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date established for such Part A Participant under the Plan, then in such event, subject to compliance with all nonqualified deferred compensation plan requirements governing the Plan under Section 3.7, below, such Part A Participant's initial Election shall be followed and shall be deemed for all purposes to be a Subsequent Election and to change the date of distribution and payment of his/her Excess Retirement Benefit to a subsequent Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date resulting from such Subsequent Election.
 
E. If a Part A Participant does not commence receiving his Retirement Plan Benefit on his Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date, and a Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date is established for the payment of his/her Excess Retirement Benefit, then upon commencement of payment of his/her Excess Retirement Benefit on a Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date such Part A Participant shall be entitled to receive an Excess Retirement Benefit Catch-Up Payment on that Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date, if an to the extent the payment of his/her Retirement Plan Benefit has commenced prior to such Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date.
 
F. If a Part A Participant is a Key Employee his/her Excess Retirement Benefit shall not commence being paid until after the end of the Key Employee Required Deferral Period. In such a case the Part A Participant shall receive a Key Employee Catch-Up Payment at the end of the Key Employee Required Deferral Period and thereafter receive Excess Retirement Benefit monthly payments in accordance with the Plan.
 
 
A Part A Participant's initial Election shall include his/her consent and agreement, to all terms and provisions of the Plan with respect to any Subsequent Election and the effect thereof with respect to the time and form of payment of any Excess Retirement Benefit he/she is entitled to receive under the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Beneficiary of a Part A Participant's Excess Retirement Benefit shall be the beneficiary of such Part A Participant's corresponding Retirement Plan Benefit.
 
 
If a Part A Participant is authorized by the Company for any reason, including military, medical, or other, to take a leave of absence from employment, such Part A Participant's participation in Part A of the Plan shall remain in effect.
 
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, this Part A of the Plan shall be administered pursuant to the provisions of Part C of the Plan.
 
 
 
 
The provisions of Part B of the Plan shall establish and provide supplemental retirement benefits to employees who are (i) in a select group of management or highly compensated employees of the Company within the meaning of Sections 201(a)(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of ERISA, (ii) Officers of the Company, and (iii) selected to participate in and receive Supplemental Retirement Benefits pursuant to the terms and provisions of this Part B of the Plan. The Supplemental Retirement Benefits provided to participants under Part B of the Plan are separate and independent from Excess Retirement Benefits provided under Part A of the Plan.
 
 
 
 
Provided, that no Employee/Officer, and who is a participant in the Prior Frozen SERP or entitled to receive any benefit or payment under the Prior Frozen SERP shall be selected to be a Part B Participant in the Plan; and it may be made a condition to the selection of an eligible Employee/Officer to be a Part B Participant that he/she shall have elected in writing to completely terminate his/her participation in the Prior Frozen SERP and waive all his/her entitlement to any benefit or payment under the Prior Frozen SERP; and notwithstanding anything otherwise provided herein, any eligible Employee/Officer who becomes a Part B Participant shall be deemed to consent to and agree that his/her
 
participation in Part B of the Plan shall supersede and cancel any entitlement he/she had to any benefit or payment under the Prior Frozen SERP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. . Subject to Section 3.1.D. of this Article III, below, the Company shall pay or cause to be paid to such Part B Participant a Supplemental Retirement Benefit, which shall be a monthly amount which when combined with the Retirement Plan Benefit and existing pension benefits payable to the Part B Participant under the Retirement Plan and any retirement plans (other than 401(k) plans) of any of the Part B Participant's former employers, will be equal to the product of the Part B Participant's
General
 
Final Average Earnings, multiplied by the Part B Participant's Benefit Factor Percentage at his/her Retirement under the Table in Section 3.1.B. of this Article III, below, and then multiplied by the Part B Participant's Service Factor Percentage at his/her Retirement under the Table in Section 3.1.C. of this Article III, below; subject to adjustment and reduction, if applicable, pursuant to Section 3.1.E. of this Article III, below.
 
If an executed Plan Agreement by and between the Part B Participant and the Company is not executed, or an executed Plan Agreement of a Part B Participant does not state or specify a different amount, form and time of payment of a Part B Participant's Supplemental Retirement Benefit, then the Part B Participant shall be entitled to receive a Supplemental Retirement Benefit in accordance with this Section 3.1.
 
B. . A Part B Participant's Benefit Factor Percentage shall be based upon his/her age at his/her Retirement, as follows:
Benefit Factor Percentage
 
 
C. . A Part B Participant's Service Factor Percentage shall be based upon his/her completed Years of Service at his/her Retirement, as follows:
Service Factor Percentage
 
 
 
D. . If a Part B Participant is also a Part A Participant under the Plan and entitled to receive an Excess Retirement Benefit under Part A of the Plan, the Supplemental Retirement Benefit of such Part B Participant shall be offset and reduced by an amount equal to such Excess Retirement Benefit, whichever is payable to such Part B Participant pursuant to Part A of the Plan.
Excess Retirement Benefit Offset
 
E. . The amount of a Part B Participant's Supplemental Retirement Benefit payments will be reduced by reason of early commencement of payment thereof, based on the following table depending upon the Part B Participant's age when Supplemental Retirement Benefit payments to the Part B Participant commence:
Adjustment of Retirement Benefit Payments; Early Commencement
 
 
 
B. Provided, that except in the case of and to the extent of a Key Employee Required Deferral, a Part B Participant shall be entitled to make a Subsequent Election to change the date of distribution and payment of his/her Supplemental Retirement Benefit from his/her Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date to the Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date resulting from such election, if :
 
(i) he/she does not commence receiving his/her Retirement Plan Benefit on or before his/her Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date,
 
(ii) he/she makes a corresponding Subsequent Election with respect to the Excess Retirement Benefit, if any, he/she is entitled to under Part A of the Plan, and
 
(iii) he/she delivers a written notification of such Subsequent Election to the Committee, or its designee, in the form it prescribes, not less than twelve (12) months prior to his/her Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date.
 
The Committee, in its discretion, may allow a Part B Participant to make a Subsequent Election as to any Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date established for payment of his/her Supplemental Retirement Benefit under and subject to the same conditions and requirements as set forth above in this Section 3.2.B.
 
Provided, that notwithstanding the foregoing, a Subsequent Election deferral will always occur pursuant to a Part B Participant's initial Election in any case in which he/she does not commence receiving his/her Retirement Plan Benefit on his/her Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date, in accordance with such Election and paragraph D, of this Section 3.2., below, notwithstanding that no other written notification is delivered by him/her pursuant to the foregoing provisions.
 
C. Nothwithstanding anything to the contrary otherwise provided in the Plan or in any Election or Subsequent Election of a Part B Participant, any Subsequent Election made under the Plan shall result in the first payment with respect to which such Subsequent Election is made being deferred to a Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date that is for a period of five (5) years from the date such payment would otherwise have been made; the payment and distribution of any Supplemental Retirement Benefit and any Excess Retirement Benefit to which a Part B Participant is entitled under the Plan shall in all cases be made simultaneously; and the payment and distribution of such Supplemental Retirement Benefit and Excess Retirement Benefit shall in no case commence or be made prior to the commencement of payment of such Part B Participant's Retirement Plan Benefit.
 
D. Provided, further, that if the payment of the Retirement Plan Benefit to which a Part B Participant is entitled for any reason does not commence on or before a then existing Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date, or a then existing Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date established for such Part B Participant under the Plan, then in such event, subject to compliance with all nonqualified deferred compensation plan requirements governing the Plan under Section 3.7, below, such Part B Participant's initial Election shall be followed and shall be deemed for all purposes to be a Subsequent Election to change the date of distribution and payment of his/her Supplemental Retirement Benefit to a subsequent Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date resulting from such Subsequent Election.
 
E. If a Part B Participant does not commence receiving his Retirement Plan Benefit on his/her Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date, and a Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date is established for the payment of his/her Supplemental Retirement Benefit, then upon commencement of payment of his/her Supplemental Retirement Benefit on his/her Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date such Part B Participant shall be entitled to receive a Supplemental Retirement Benefit Catch-Up Payment on that Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date, if and to the extent the payment of his/her Retirement Plan Benefit has commenced prior to such Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date.
 
F. If a Part B Participant is a Key Employee his/her Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall not commence being paid until after the end of the Key Employee Required Deferral Period. In such case the Part B Participant shall receive a Key Employee Catch-Up Payment at the end of the Key Employee Required Deferral Period and thereafter receive Supplemental Retirement Benefit monthly payments in accordance with the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Beneficiary of a Part B Participant's Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall be the beneficiary of such Part B Participant's Retirement Plan Benefit.
 
 
The Committee shall be authorized to make and apply special adjustments in determining the amount of a Part B Participant's Supplemental Retirement Benefit. Such adjustments may be made from time to time by the Committee for any Part B Participant, and may include, without limitation, the granting or deemed accrual of additional Years of Service, the waiver of an offset of retirement benefits provided by a prior employer, or such other adjustments as the Committee determines, in its sole discretion; provided, however, that no such adjustment shall be effective until it is made and expressly acknowledged in writing by the Committee.
 
 
If a Part B Participant is authorized by the Company for any reason, including military, medical, or other, to take a leave of absence from employment, such Part B Participant's Plan Agreement shall remain in effect.
 
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, this Part B of the Plan shall be administered pursuant to the provisions of Part C of the Plan.
 
 
 
 
The purpose of Part C of the Plan is to establish and provide certain provisions governing the administration, and interpretation and application of all the provisions of the Plan. Unless otherwise expressly indicated, the terms and provisions of Part C of the Plan shall be applicable to Part A, Part B and Part C of the Plan.
 
 
 
A. "Base Cash Compensation" shall mean the regular monthly salary paid to a Participant by the Company before any deductions or exclusions for taxes or other purposes, and excluding any vehicle allowance, incentives, commissions and any other special pay.
 
B. "Beneficiary" shall mean the individual or individuals, or any trust or trusts, or the estate of a Participant entitled to receive any benefits in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
 
C. "Board of Directors" shall mean the Board of Directors of ONEOK, Inc., unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires.
 
(A) "Change in Control" shall mean to the extent provided by Treasury Regulations issued under Code Section 409A, a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company.
 
D. "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
E. "Committee" shall mean the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors or such other Committee appointed to manage and administer the Plan and individual Plan Agreements in accordance with the provisions of Article III of this Part C of the Plan.
 
F. "Company" shall mean ONEOK, Inc., an Oklahoma corporation, or any division or subsidiary thereof.
 
G. "Compensation" shall mean the Base and Short-Term Incentive Cash Compensation from the Company paid to or deferred by a Participant during a calendar year.
 
H. "Deferred Compensation" shall mean any Excess Retirement Benefit or Supplemental Retirement Benefit to be paid to a Participant pursuant to the Plan.
 
I. "Deferred Excess Retirement Benefit Payment" shall mean the amount of any monthly Excess Retirement Benefit that is not paid to a Part A Participant for any month during such Part A Participant's SERP Retirement Benefits Deferral Period.
 
J. "Deferred Retirement Plan Benefit Commencement Date" shall mean a Retirement Plan Benefit Commencement Date that is later than a Participant's Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date.
 
K. "Deferred Retirement Plan Benefit Election Date" shall mean the date a Participant elects a Deferred Retirement Plan Benefit Commencement Date.
 
L. "Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date" shall mean with respect to a Part A Participant or Part B Participant, the date that is five (5) years after such Participant's Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date, or any existing Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date established under the Plan with respect to such Participant, as to which the Participant has made a Subsequent Election under the terms and provisions of the Plan.
 
M. "Deferred Supplemental Retirement Benefit Payment" shall mean the amount of any monthly Supplemental Retirement Benefit that is not paid to a Part B Participant for any month during such Part B Participant's Supplemental Retirement Benefits Deferral Period.
 
N. "Disabled" shall mean that a Participant is unable to engage in substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident or health plan covering Employees of the Company.
 
O. "Effective Date" shall mean the effective date of the Plan, January 1, 2005.
 
P. "Election" shall mean the initial Election of a Participant to defer Deferred Compensation to the Participant for services performed for a Plan Year or other period pursuant to the Plan, which shall be on or before the expiration of thirty (30) days after the Initial Participation Date of such Participant.
 
Q. "Election Date" shall mean the date of the Election of a Part A Participant or Part B Participant that is made or deemed made pursuant to the terms of the Plan.
 
R. "Employee" shall mean any person who is in the regular full-time employment of the Company or is on authorized leave of absence therefrom, as
 
determined by the personnel rules and practices of the Company. The term does not include persons who are retained by the Company solely as consultants or under contract.
 
S. "ERISA" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
 
T. "Excess Retirement Benefit" shall mean an amount equal the difference between (i) the Retirement Plan Benefit to which the Part A Participant would be entitled under the Retirement Plan if such Retirement Plan Benefit was computed without the restrictions or limitations imposed by Sections 401(a)(17) and 415(b) of the Code as now or hereafter in effect, less (ii) the amount of Retirement Plan Benefit payable to the Part A Participant under the Retirement Plan.
 
U. "Excess Retirement Benefit Catch-Up Payment" means a payment equal to the amount of each monthly Deferred Excess Retirement Benefit Payment, if any, to which a Part A Participant is entitled between the such Part A Participant's Retirement Plan Benefit Commencement Date and his/her Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date.
 
V. "Final Average Earnings" shall mean the average of the highest thirty-six (36) consecutive months Compensation during the last sixty (60) month period of an Employee's employment with the Company.
 
W. "Fixed Schedule" shall mean the distribution or payment of compensation deferred under the Plan in a fixed schedule of distributions or payments that are determined and fixed at the time the deferral of such Compensation is first elected by the Participant.
 
X. "Initial Participation Date" shall mean the date an Employee or Officer first becomes a Part A Participant and/or Part B Participant in the Plan.
 
Y. "Key Employee" shall mean an Employee who is (i) an officer of the Company having annual Compensation greater than $130,000 (adjusted for inflation at the same time and in the same manner as is provided for in Code Section 416(i) and limited to 50 Employees of the Company, (ii) a 5-percent owner of the Company, and (iii) a 1-percent owner of the Company having annual Compensation from the Company greater than $150,000.
 
Z. "Key Employee Catch-Up Payment" shall mean a lump sum payment equal to all regularly scheduled Excess Retirement Benefit and/or Supplemental Retirement Benefit monthly payments to which an Part A Participant or Part B Participant is entitled to under the Plan but which are not paid on and after the commencement of payment of his/her Retirement Plan Benefit because of a Key Employee Required Deferral Period.
 
AA. "Key Employee Required Deferral Period" shall mean the deferral of payment and distribution of an Excess Retirement Benefit or a Supplemental Retirement
 
Benefit with respect to a Part A Participant or Part B Participant, respectively, until a date which is six (6) months after the date of the Separation from Service of such Participant.
 
BB. "Normal SERP Benefit Commencement Date" shall mean as to any Part A Participant or Part B Participant, the first day of the calendar month next following the date of occurrence of both (i) such Participant's Separation from Service with the Company, and (ii) such Participant's attainment of age fifty (50).
 
CC. "Officer" shall mean a person who is an elected officer of the Company.
 
DD. "Part A Participant" shall mean an Employee who is selected to participate in Part A of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Article II of Part A of the Plan.
 
EE. "Part B Participant" shall mean an Employee who is selected and elects to participate in Part B of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Article II of Part B of the Plan.
 
FF. "Performance-Based Compensation shall mean Compensation that is conditioned upon or subject to meeting certain requirements similar to those under Code Section 162(m), as more particularly provided for in Treasury Regulations issued under Code Section 409A.
 
GG. "Plan Agreement" shall mean a form of written agreement which is entered into by and between the Company and an Employee selected to become a Participant as a condition to participation in the Plan as provided in Sections 2.2 and 2.4 of Article II of Part B of the Plan.
 
HH. "Plan" shall mean this ONEOK, Inc. 2005 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as embodied herein and as amended from time to time.
 
II. "Prior Frozen SERP" shall mean the separate preexisting ONEOK, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, terminated and frozen by the Board of Directors effective December 31, 2004.
 
JJ. "Rabbi Trust" shall mean the trust created to hold assets which will be used to pay the benefits provided hereunder, as provided in Section 5.4 of Article V of this Part C of the Plan.
 
KK. "Retirement" and "Retire" shall mean termination of an Employee's employment with the Company, other than termination of employment as a result of death of the Employee, irrespective of whether or not the Employee is considered to have retired under the Retirement Plan or for any other purpose at the time of his/her termination of employment with the Company.
 
LL. "Retirement Age" shall mean the retirement age of a Participant specified in the Participant's Plan Agreement and the Plan.
 
MM. "Retirement Plan" shall mean the Retirement Plan for Employees of ONEOK, Inc. and Subsidiaries.
 
NN. "Retirement Plan Benefit" shall mean the benefit or benefits to which a Part B Participant is entitled under the Retirement Plan.
 
OO. "Retirement Plan Benefit Commencement Date" means the date a Participant commences receiving payments of his/her Retirement Benefits under the Retirement Plan.
 
PP. "Separation from Service" shall mean the termination of a Participant's employment with the Company.
 
QQ. "SERP Retirement Benefits Payments Deferral Period" means the period of time commencing on a Part A Participant's or a Part B Participant's Retirement Plan Benefit Commencement Date and ending on such Part B Participant's Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date.
 
RR. "Service" shall mean employment of a Participant by the Company as a regular full-time employee.
 
SS. "Short-Term Incentive Cash Compensation" shall mean any payment by the Company under the ONEOK, Inc. Annual Employee Incentive Plan, the ONEOK, Inc. Annual Officer Incentive Plan, or any other incentive or commission plan established by the Company to pay employees additional cash compensation to reward performance, except that any payment by the Company under the ONEOK Energy Services Company, II Incentive Plan shall not be considered or treated as Short-Term Incentive Cash Compensation.
 
TT. "Specified Time" shall mean a specified date at which Deferred Compensation deferred by a Participant pursuant to the Plan is required to be distributed or paid and which is specified at the time the deferral of such Deferred Compensation is initially elected by the Participant.
 
UU. "Subsequent Election" shall mean an election made by a Participant with respect to the time or form of distribution of payment Deferred Compensation deferred under the Plan that is made at any time after his/her Election with respect to such Deferred Compensation.
 
VV. "Supplemental Retirement Benefit" shall mean the supplemental retirement benefit to be paid to a Part B Participant pursuant to Article III and other applicable provisions of Part B of the Plan.
 
WW. "Supplemental Retirement Benefit Catch-Up Payment" means a payment equal to the amount of each monthly Deferred Supplemental Retirement Benefit Payment, if any, to which a Part B Participant is entitled and which is not paid to such Part B Participant during the period between such Part B Participant's Retirement Plan Benefit Commencement Date and his/her Deferred SERP Benefit Commencement Date.
 
XX. "Totally and Permanently Disabled" means when, on the basis of medical evidence, it is determined that a Participant:
 
(a) is totally disabled so as to be prevented from any comparable employment with the Company, including a disability resulting from an occupational cause; and
 
(b) will be disabled permanently.
 
YY. "Unforeseeable Emergency" shall mean a sever financial hardship to the Participant resulting from illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant's spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Code Section 152(a)) of the Participant, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant, and it is intended and directed with respect to any such Unforeseeable Emergency that any amounts distributed under the Plan by reason thereof shall not exceed the amounts necessary to satisfy such emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise or by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship.
 
ZZ. "Years of Service" shall include each full year, but not any portion of a year, during which the Participant has been employed by the Company or any division or subsidiary thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
The general administration of the Plan, including all provisions of Part A and Part B of the Plan, and any Plan Agreements executed hereunder, as well as construction and interpretation thereof, shall be vested in the Committee, the number and members of which shall be designated and appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the pleasure of, the Board of Directors. Any such member of the Committee may resign by notice in writing filed with the Board of Directors. Vacancies shall be filled promptly by the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any corporation which is a subsidiary of the Company may, with the approval of the Board of Directors, adopt the Plan and thereby come within the definition of Company in Article I of Part C of the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a) At the Retirement of, and commencement of payment of an Excess Retirement Benefit or a Supplemental Retirement Benefit to a Plan Participant;
 
b) Upon a decision by the Committee, or by the Board of Directors; or
 
c) Upon a Change in Control.
 
Such funding may be in the form of single premium annuities, or an amount sufficient for the trustee to purchase single premium annuities, or life insurance policies or contracts insuring the lives of Participants, as the case may be, from qualified and financially sound insurance companies, and such other forms or types of investments the Company may select from time to time to provide the applicable vested Excess Retirement Benefits and Supplemental Retirement Benefits payable under the Plan and Plan Agreements. Such funding and the purchase of insurance, if any, will not relieve the Company of its obligations to pay or cause to be paid the benefits hereunder.
 
The Rabbi Trust may be maintained and administered to also provide for the funding of payment of amounts payable to participants in other deferred compensation and benefit plans of the Company. The funding, investments and administration of the Rabbi Trust in connection with such other separate plan or plans shall be separately administered and accounted for as determined to be necessary and appropriate by the Company and trustee pursuant to the terms of the Rabbi Trust. It shall be permissible for the trustee to invest funds of the Rabbi Trust in one or more forms of investment that is common to plans being funded thereunder.
 
The Rabbi Trust shall be a grantor trust of which the Company is the grantor within the meaning of the Code. The principal of the Rabbi Trust and any earnings thereon shall be
 
held separate and apart from other funds of the Company and shall be used exclusively for the uses and purposes of Part A Participants and/or Part B Participants in the Plan and general creditors of the Company as specified hereinbelow and in the trust instrument. Part A Participants and Part B Participants in the Plan and their Beneficiaries shall have no preferred claim on, or any beneficial ownership in any assets of the Rabbi Trust; and any rights created under the Plan or any Plan Agreements, and the Rabbi Trust are to be made unsecured contractual rights of Part A Participants and Part B Participants (and their Beneficiaries, if applicable) against the Company; and assets held by the Rabbi Trust will be subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors under federal and state law in the event of insolvency of the Company.
 
 
Neither the Plan nor any Plan Agreement with a Participant hereunder, either singly or collectively, in any way obligate the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company, to continue the employment of a Part A Participant or a Part B Participant with the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company, nor does either limit the right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company at any time and for any reason to terminate such Part A Participant's or Part B Participant's employment. Termination of a Part A Participant's or Part B Participant's employment with the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company, for any reason, whether by action of the Company, subsidiary, or such a Part A Participant or Part B Participant, shall immediately terminate such Participant's participation in the Plan and any such Participant's Plan Agreement, and all further obligations of either party thereunder, except as may be provided in Article VIII of this Part C, and the Participant's Plan Agreement. In no event shall the Plan or a Plan Agreement, either singly or collectively, by their terms or implications constitute an employment contract of any nature whatsoever between the Company, or any subsidiary, and a Part A Participant or Part B Participant.
 
 
A Part A Participant and a Part B Participant reserves the right to terminate participation in the Plan and any such Participant's Plan Agreement at any time by giving the Company written notice of such termination not less than 30 days (i) prior to the anniversary date of any contract or contracts of insurance on the life of such Part A Participant or Part B Participant which may be in force and utilized by the Company in connection with the Plan, or (ii) prior to the date a Part A Participant or Part B Participant selects for termination if no insurance contract is in effect.
 
 
 
 
 
A. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary expressed or provided in the Plan or any Plan Agreement of a Part A Participant or Part B Participant, no amendment, modification or termination of the Plan, shall decrease a Part A Participant's or Part B Participant's accrued Excess Retirement Benefit or Supplemental Retirement Benefit, as applicable. For purposes of this Paragraph A., a Plan amendment which has the effect of decreasing a Part A Participant's or Part B Participant's accrued Excess Retirement Benefit or Supplemental Retirement Benefit, as the case may be, or eliminating any optional form of payment of a Participant's accrued Excess Retirement Benefit or Supplemental Retirement Benefit, with respect to benefits attributable to service before the amendment shall be treated as reducing an accrued Excess Retirement Benefit or Supplemental Retirement Benefit. If a vesting schedule under the Plan or any Plan Agreement is amended, a Part A Participant's and Part B Participant's non-forfeitable percentage, determined as of the later of the date such amendment is adopted or the date it becomes effective, will not be less than the percentage computed under Part A and Part B of the Plan, as applicable, without regard to such amendment.
 
B. Except as provided in paragraph A of this Section 8.2, upon the termination of the Plan by the Board of Directors, or a termination of the Plan Agreement of a Participant, in accordance with the provisions for such termination, neither the Plan nor the Plan Agreement shall be of any further force or effect, and no party shall have any further obligation under either the Plan or any Plan Agreement so terminated, except as provided in the Plan or Plan Agreement with respect to accrued benefits at the time of such termination or as elsewhere provided in the Plan.
 
C. For purposes of paragraphs A and B of this Section 8.2, the term "Plan" shall also mean and include any substituted plan that may be established in event of a Change of Control as described in Section 8.1, above, and the terms "Excess Retirement
 
 
 
The Excess Retirement Benefit provided for a Part A Participant and the Supplemental Retirement Benefit provided for a Part B Participant under the Plan and/or under any Plan Agreement are in addition to any other benefits available to such Participant under any other Plan, plan or agreement of the Company for its Employees and the Participants, and, except as may be otherwise expressly provided for, the Plan and Plan Agreements entered into hereunder shall supplement and shall not supersede, modify, or amend any other Plan, plan or agreement of the Company. The Excess Retirement Benefits and Supplemental Retirement Benefits under the Plan and/or Plan Agreements entered into hereunder shall not be considered compensation for the purpose of computing contributions or benefits under any plan maintained by the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, which is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code.
 
 
No Excess Retirement Benefit or Supplemental Retirement Benefit under the Plan or a Plan Agreement shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge the same shall be void. No Excess Retirement Benefit Supplemental Retirement Benefit under the Plan or under any Plan Agreement shall in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the person entitled to such thereto. If any Part A Participant or Part B Participant under the Plan or a Plan Agreement should become bankrupt or attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right to a benefit under the Plan or under any Plan Agreement, then such right or benefit shall, in the discretion of the Committee, cease, and in such event, the Committee may, but shall have no duty to hold or apply the same or any part thereof for the benefit of such Part A Participant or Part B Participant, or his/her Beneficiary, in such portion as the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, may deem proper.
 
 
 
The following requirements stated in this Section 11.1 shall apply to the Plan, to all Elections or Subsequent Elections made by Participants under the Plan, and to all distributions and payments made pursuant to the Plan.
 
A.
Any Compensation deferred under the Plan shall not be distributed earlier than
 
(a) Separation from Service of the Participant,
 
(b) the date the Participant becomes Disabled,
 
(c) death of the Participant,
 
(d) a Specified Time (or pursuant to a Fixed Schedule) specified under the Plan at the date of deferral of such Compensation,
 
(e) a Change in Ownership or Control, or
 
(f) the occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency.
 
B. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of a Participant who is a Key Employee, no distribution shall be made before the date which is six (6) months after the date of the Participant's Separation from Service, or, if earlier, the date of death of such Participant.
 
C. No acceleration of the time or schedule of any distribution or payment under the Plan shall be permitted or allowed, except to the extent provided in Treasury Regulations issued under Code Section 409A.
 
If the Plan, or the Committee acting pursuant to the Plan, permits under any Subsequent Election by a Participant a delay in a payment or a change in the form of payment of Compensation deferred under the Plan, such Subsequent Election shall not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which it is made. In the case of a Subsequent Election related to a payment to be made upon Separation from Service of a Participant, at a Specified Time or pursuant to a Fixed Schedule, or upon a Change in Ownership or Control, the first payment with respect to which such Subsequent Election is made shall be deferred for a period of not less than five (5) years from the date such payment would otherwise have been made; and any such Subsequent Election related to a payment at a Specified Time or pursuant to a Fixed Schedule may not be made less than twelve (12) months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment to which it relates.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100 West Fifth Street
Tulsa, Oklahoma 74103
 
and marked to the attention of the Secretary, Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Administrative Committee; or, if notice to a Participant, addressed to the address shown on such Participant's most recent employment file with the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This ONEOK, Inc. Employee Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") and related agreements between the Employer and certain management or highly compensated employees is an unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation plan and arrangement. The purpose of the Plan is to provide a select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Employer with the option to defer the receipt of portions of their compensation payable for services rendered to the Employer, and provide nonqualified deferred compensation benefits which are not available to such employees by reason of limitations on employer and employee contributions to qualified pension or profit-sharing plans under the federal tax laws.
 
It is intended that the Plan will assist in attracting and retaining qualified individuals to serve as officers and managers of the Employer; and the Plan is intended to constitute a plan which is unfunded and maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of, and as described in Section 201(2) and related provisions of ERISA.
 
The Plan is generally effective on May 15, 1997, but shall first apply to the deferral of Compensation by Participants thereunder beginning on June 1, 1997. The Plan was amended and restated November 1, 1999, October 19, 2000 and February 15, 2001, and December 16, 2004.
 
 
When used in this Plan and initially capitalized, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated:
 
 
"Account" means the sum of a Participant's Deferral Account and Matching Account under the Plan.
 
 
"Base Salary" means a Participant's basic wage or salary paid by an Employer to the Participant without regard to any increases or decreases in such basic wage or salary as a result of (i) an election to defer basic wage or salary under this Plan or (ii) an election between benefits or cash provided under a plan of an Employer maintained pursuant to Sections 125 or 401(k) of the Code, and as limited in Exhibit B attached hereto. The Base Salary does not include any Lump
 
Sum Merit Award paid to a Participant, nor any Bonus, as defined in Section 2.5, below.
 
 
"Beneficiary" means the person or persons designated or deemed to be designated by the Participant pursuant to Article VII to receive benefits payable under the Plan in the event of the Participant's death.
 
 
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
 
 
"Bonus" means the cash bonus paid by the Employer to a Participant under the Key Employee Incentive Plan without regard to any decreases as a result of (i) an election to defer all or any portion of such Bonus under this Plan or (ii) an election between benefits or cash provided under the Thrift Plan or any other plan of the Employer maintained pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Code.
 
 
A "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
(i) A merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Corporation or in which securities of the Corporation are issued ( a "Merger"), unless such Merger is a "Non-Control Transaction." A "Non-Control Transaction" shall mean a Merger where:
 
(A) the stockholders of the Corporation, immediately before such Merger, own directly or indirectly immediately following such Merger at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of (x) the corporation resulting from such Merger (the "Surviving Corporation") if fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Surviving Corporation is not Beneficially Owned, directly or indirectly by another Person (a "Parent Corporation"), or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation;
 
(B) the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such Merger constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of (x) the Surviving Corporation, if there is no Parent Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; and
 
(C) no Person other than (1) the Corporation, (2) any Related Entity, (3) any employee benefit plan (or any trust forming a part thereof) that, immediately prior to such Merger was maintained by the Corporation or any Related Entity, or (4) any Person who, immediately prior to such Merger had Beneficial Ownership of thirty percent (30%) or more of the then outstanding Voting Securities or Shares, has Beneficial Ownership of thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities or common stock of (x) the Surviving Corporation if there is no Parent Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation.
 
(ii) A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation; or
 
(iii) The sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation to any Person (other than a transfer to a Related Entity or under conditions that
 
would constitute a Non-Control Transaction with the disposition of assets being regarded as a Merger for this purpose or the distribution to the Corporation's stockholders of the stock of a Related Entity or any other assets).
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing,
 
(A) A Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the then outstanding Shares or Voting Securities if: (1) such acquisition occurs as a result of the acquisition of Shares or Voting Securities by the Corporation which, by reducing the number of Shares or Voting Securities then outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of this subparagraph) as a result of the acquisition of Shares or Voting Securities by the Corporation, and after such share acquisition by the Corporation, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional Shares or Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then outstanding Shares or Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall occur, or (2) (a) within five business days after a Change in Control would have occurred (but for the operation of this subparagraph), or if the Subject Person acquired Beneficial Ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding Voting Securities inadvertently, then after the Subject Person discovers or is notified by the Corporation that such acquisition would have triggered a Change in Control (but for the operation of this subparagraph), the Subject Person notifies the Board of Directors that it did so inadvertently, and (b) within two business days after such notification, the Subject Person divests itself of a sufficient number of Shares or Voting Securities so that the Subject Person is the Beneficial Owner of less than twenty percent (20%) of the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding Voting Securities.
 
(B) A Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur if (1) the Shareholder Group (as defined in the Shareholder Agreement) acquires Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the Corporation's Voting Securities pursuant to the terms of the Shareholder Agreement, by and between WAI, Inc. (now known as ONEOK, Inc.) and Western Resources, Inc. dated as of November 26, 1997 (the "Shareholder Agreement"), until the earlier of (a) the termination of the Shareholder Agreement or (b) the successful consummation of a Buyout Tender Offer as defined in Section 3.6(b) of the Shareholder Agreement, but upon either of such events, the acquisition or existence of such percentage of Beneficial Ownership by Western Resources, Inc. or any of its affiliates shall constitute a Change in Control or (2) the equity securities of the Corporation owned by the Shareholder Group are in any manner restructured with the approval of a majority of the members of the Incumbent Board (excluding Shareholder Nominees, as defined in the Shareholder Agreement).
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, if an Eligible Employee's employment is terminated by the Corporation without Just Cause prior to the date of a Change in Control but the Eligible Employee reasonably demonstrates that the termination (A) was at the request of a third party who has indicated an intention or taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in
 
Control or (B) otherwise arose in connection with, or in anticipation of, a Change in Control which has been threatened or proposed, such termination shall be deemed to have occurred after a Change in Control for purposes of this Plan provided a Change in Control shall actually have occurred.
 
 
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and Treasury regulations thereunder, as amended from time to time.
 
 
"Committee" means the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
 
 
"Compensation" means the Base Salary and Bonus payable with respect to an Eligible Employee for each calendar year.
 
 
"Corporation" means ONEOK, Inc., its successors and assigns, or any division or Subsidiary thereof.
 
 
"Deferral Account" means the account maintained on the books of the Employer for the purpose of accounting for the amount of Compensation that each Participant elects to defer under the Plan and for the amount of investment return credited or debited thereto for each Participant in accordance with Article V.
 
 
"Deferral Benefit" means the benefit payable to a Participant or his or her Beneficiary pursuant to Article VI.
 
 
"Determination Date" means a date on which the amount of a Participant's Account is determined and updated as provided in Article V. Each December 31 of a calendar year shall be the Determination Date.
 
 
"Disability" shall mean a physical or mental condition of a Participant, which the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines on the basis of medical evidence satisfactory to it, prevents the Participant from engaging in further employment by the Employer and that such disability will be permanent and continuous.
 
 
"Employee" means an employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary.
 
 
"Eligible Employee" means a highly compensated or management employee of the Corporation who is designated by the Committee, by individual name, or group or description, in accordance with Section 3.1, as eligible to participate in the Plan.
 
 
"Employer" means, with respect to a Participant, the Corporation or the Subsidiary which pays such Participant's Compensation.
 
 
"ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
 
 
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
2.20 .
Fiscal Year
 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Corporation which prior to January 1, 2000, was the fiscal year commencing September 1 and ending the following August 31, and on and after January 1, 2000, is the fiscal year commencing January 1 and ending the following December 31. On and after January 1, 2000, the Fiscal Year and Plan Year (as defined below) shall be the same period commencing January 1 and ending the following December 31.
 
2.21 .
Investment Return Rate
 
"Investment Return Rate" means the rate of investment return to be credited to a Participant's Deferral Account and Matching Account pursuant to Section 5.2, which rate shall be specified in Section 5.3 and Exhibit "C" attached hereto.
 
 
"Just Cause" shall mean the Employee's conviction in a court of law of a felony, or any crime or
 
offense in a court of law of a felony, or any crime or offense involving misuse or misappropriation of money or property, the Employee's violation of any covenant, agreement or obligation not to disclose confidential information regarding the business of the Corporation (or a division or Subsidiary); any violation by the Employee of any covenant not to compete with the Corporation (or a division or Subsidiary); any act of dishonesty by the Employee which adversely affects the business of the Corporation (or a division or Subsidiary); any willful or intentional act of the Employee which adversely affects the business of, or reflects unfavorably on the reputation of the Corporation (or a division or Subsidiary); the Employee's use of alcohol or drugs which interferes with the Employee's performance of duties as an employee of the Corporation (or a division or Subsidiary); or the Employee's failure or refusal to perform the specific directives of the Corporation's Board, or its officers which directives are consistence with the scope and nature of the Employee's duties and responsibilities with the existence and occurrence of all of such causes to be determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion; provided, that nothing contained in the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall be deemed to interfere in any way with the right of the Corporation (or a division or Subsidiary), which is hereby acknowledged, to terminate the Employee's employment at any time without cause.
 
 
"KGS Deferred Compensation Plan" means the KGS Deferred Compensation Plan of the Corporation which was merged into and succeeded by this Plan effective January 1, 1999.
 
 
"KGS Deferred Benefit Account" means a Deferred Benefit Account of a Participant in the KGS Deferred Compensation Plan merged with the Plan January 1, 1999, which shall be maintained, administered, paid and distributed in accordance with the provisions of Sections 5.6, 6.9 and other applicable provisions of the Plan not inconsistent therewith.
 
 
"Key Employee Incentive Plan" means the Key Employee Annual Incentive Plan of the Corporation.
 
 
"Long-Term Deferral" means a deferral made by a Participant that is not a Short-Term Deferral.
 
 
"Lump Sum Merit Award" means a Lump Sum Merit Award granted and paid to a Participant pursuant to the merit compensation program of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
 
 
"Matching Account" means the account maintained on the books of the Employer for the purpose of accounting for the Matching Amount and for the amount of investment return credited thereto for each Participant pursuant to Article V.
 
 
"Matching Amount" means the amount credited to a Participant's Matching Account under Section 4.4.
 
 
"Matching Percentage" means the matching contribution percentage in effect for a specific Plan Year under the Thrift Plan.
 
 
"Participant" means any Eligible Employee who elects to participate by filing a Participation Agreement as provided in Section 3.2.
 
 
"Participation Agreement" means the agreement filed by a Participant, in the form prescribed by the Committee, pursuant to Section 3.2.
 
 
"Person" means an individual, a trust, estate, partnership, limited liability company, association, corporation or other entity.
 
 
"Plan" means this ONEOK, Inc. Employee Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time.
 
 
"Plan Year" means a twelve-month period commencing January 1 and ending the following December 31; provided, that the first Plan Year of the Plan shall commence June 1, 1997, and end December 31, 1997.
 
 
"Retirement" means the voluntary termination of employment of a Participant when retirement benefits become payable to the Participant under the Retirement Plan.
 
 
"Retirement Plan" means the Retirement Plan for Employees of ONEOK, Inc. and Subsidiaries.
 
 
"Shares" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation and any other securities into which such shares are changed or for which such shares are exchanged.
 
 
"Short-Term Deferral" means a deferral elected by a Participant under which payment of the Deferral Benefit shall commence on a date specified by the Participant, but not less than five (5) years after the Participant's election thereof; provided, that the Committee, may, in its sole discretion, determine and direct that a shorter period, of not less than one (1) year, be applied to any Short-Term Deferral.
 
 
"Subsidiary" means any corporation of which the Corporation owns, directly or indirectly, at least a majority of the shares of stock having voting power in the election of directors of such corporation.
 
 
"Thrift Plan" means the Thrift Plan for Employees of ONEOK, Inc. and Subsidiaries.
 
 
"Trust" means a trust created and established pursuant to Section 11.2 of the Plan, or otherwise by the Corporation with respect to the Plan.
 
 
 
Subject to Section 3.5, below, concerning the termination and freeze of the Plan effective December 31, 2004, eligibility to participate in the Plan shall be granted to those Eligible Employees who are designated by the Committee and approved by the Board. Subject to Section 3.4, below (providing for exclusion of Employees not qualifying under certain definitional terms of federal law), the Committee shall adopt a complete written list and/or designation of the Eligible Employees, by individual name or by reference to an identifiable group of persons or by descriptions of the components of compensation of an individual which would qualify the individuals who are eligible to participate, and all of whom shall be a select group of management or highly compensated employees. The written list and/or designation of Eligible
 
Employees by the Committee, as approved by the Board, from time to time, shall be adopted and maintained as provided in Exhibit A attached hereto.
 
 
Participation in the Plan shall be limited to Eligible Employees who elect to participate in the Plan by timely filing a Participation Agreement with the Committee. An Eligible Employee shall commence participation in the Plan upon the first day of the Plan Year or Fiscal Year as the case may be, designated in his or her Participation Agreement filed with the Committee prior to the beginning of such Plan Year. The Committee, with the Board's approval, may in its sole discretion, allow individuals who become Eligible Employees after the beginning of a Plan Year to elect to participate in the Plan for the remaining part of such Plan Year.
 
 
A Participant may not change a previously elected percentage of deferral of Compensation, or terminate his or her election to participate in the Plan for a Plan Year. Except as may otherwise determined and approved by the Committee, a Participant's election to defer Base Salary and Bonus shall only be effective as of the beginning of the next Plan Year following receipt of the Participant's election by the Corporation. Determinations on all elections and of any effective dates other than as specified above, shall be made by the Committee in accordance with its prevailing administrative procedures.
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, if the Committee determines that any Participant may not qualify as a "management or highly compensated employee" within the meaning of ERISA, or regulations thereunder, the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion, that such Participant shall cease to be eligible to participate in this Plan. Upon such determination, the Employer shall make an immediate lump sum payment to the Participant equal to the vested amount credited to the Participant's Account. Upon such payment, no benefit shall thereafter be payable under this Plan either to the Participant or any Beneficiary of the Participant, and all of the Participant's elections as to the time and manner of payment of his or her Account will be deemed to be canceled.
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Employee shall be designated as a new Eligible Employee or first become a Participant in the Plan after December 31, 2004.
 
 
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 4.6, below, concerning the termination and freeze of the Plan
 
effective December 31, 2004, with respect to each Plan Year, a Participant may elect to defer a specified percentage of his or her Compensation up to the percentage of Compensation stated, and subject to the terms described in Exhibit B attached hereto; provided, that each Participant must elect a minimum deferral of two percent (2%) of his or her Base Salary for a Plan Year, and elect a minimum deferral of ten percent (10%) of all or the portion above a specified threshold of a Participant's Bonus for a Plan Year, and all deferrals elected must be in one percent (1%) increments of Compensation. Except as otherwise determined by the Committee and expressly stated in pertinent documents governing such elections approved by the Committee, a Participant's election to defer that part of Compensation which constitutes Base Salary for a Plan Year shall be made prior to the first day of that Plan Year; and a Participant's election to defer that part of Compensation which constitutes Bonus for a Plan Year shall be made prior to the first day of that Plan Year. Unless otherwise specifically stated in a Participant's election to defer Compensation, an election to defer Compensation of Base Salary shall apply only to the next Plan Year following such election, and an election to defer Bonus shall apply only to the next Plan Year following such election. Except as otherwise directed by the Committee, Participants in the Plan shall make separate and new elections to defer Base Salary and Bonus each Plan Year. For the Fiscal Years of the Corporation beginning prior to January 1, 2000, all requirements for timing of elections of Participants to defer Bonus which were heretofore provided by the Plan with respect to such Fiscal Years shall remain applicable and effective unless otherwise determined and directed by the Committee, in its sole discretion. For the Plan Year and Fiscal Year in which the Plan is initially established, a Participant may elect to defer compensation to be paid to the Participant for services to be performed by the Participant in such Plan Year or Fiscal Year after such election if such election is made on or before May 31, 1997.
 
 
A Participant shall be allowed to defer Compensation under the Plan by making either a Long-Term Deferral or a Short-Term Deferral. The Participant shall elect and designate his or her deferral period as either a Long-Term Deferral or a Short-Term Deferral in the Participation Agreement filed with the Committee for a Plan Year.
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary expressed or implied in the Plan, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine and direct that the amount of deferral and period of deferral which may be elected for Compensation, Base Salary or Bonus payable to Participants for any particular Plan Year or Fiscal Year, or other period of service, be limited to an amount or amounts, and for a period or periods other than that which is otherwise generally provided herein; and the Committee may from time to time, in its sole discretion, also determine and direct that all or part of the Bonus payable to Participants for any period of service shall be deferred only for the period or periods of deferral determined solely by the Committee without any election thereon by Participants.
 
 
The Employer shall provide and credit a Matching Amount under this Plan with respect to each Participant who is eligible to be allocated matching contributions under the Thrift Plan; except that the Committee may, prior to any Plan Year, make a determination not to provide for the crediting of Matching Amounts for that Plan Year. The Matching Amount to be credited to a Participant's Matching Account for a Plan Year shall be an amount equal to the excess of (i) the Participant's matching contribution percentage under the Thrift Plan for the Plan Year multiplied by the Participant's Compensation from the Employer in that Plan Year, over (ii) the amount of Thrift Plan matching contributions made by the Employer that are allocated to the Participant's Thrift Plan account for that Plan Year; it being intended that a Participant shall have credited to his or her Matching Account the amount of matching contributions which could not be allocated to the Participant's Thrift Plan account for the Plan Year by reason of all limitations on compensation and contributions applicable to Thrift Plan matching contributions under the Code and Treasury regulations thereunder.
 
 
The amount of Compensation that a Participant elects to defer from Base Salary under the Plan shall be credited by the Employer to the Participant's Deferral Account monthly (or, on and after January 1, 2001, as of the date such amounts would have otherwise been paid to the Participant), provided that the Employer shall reduce the deferral amount credited by the amount of any taxes or other amounts required to be withheld by the Employer from a Participant's deferred Compensation pursuant to any state, federal or local law. The Matching Amount under the Plan for each Participant under Section 4.4 shall be credited by the Employer no later than the time that matching contributions are allocated under the Thrift Plan. The amount of compensation that a Participant elects to defer from Bonus under the Plan shall be credited by the Employer to the Participant's Deferral Account at the time the Bonus is paid to the Participant under the Key Employee Incentive Plan.
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provisions of the Plan, no Eligible Employee or Participant shall defer any Compensation under the Plan for a Plan Year or taxable year that commences after December 31, 2004.
 
 
 
As of each Determination Date, a Participant's Account shall consist of the balance of the Participant's Account as of the immediately preceding Determination Date, plus the Participant's deferred Compensation and Matching Amount credited pursuant to Section 4.4 since the immediately preceding Determination Date, plus investment return credited as of such Determination Date pursuant to Section 5.2, minus the aggregate amount of distributions, if any, made from such Account since the immediately preceding Determination Date.
 
 
The Deferral Account and Matching Account of each Participant shall be periodically credited and increased, or debited and reduced, as the case may be, by the amount of investment return specified under Section 5.3. The Deferral Account and Matching Account of each Participant shall also be debited and credited for any deemed purchases or sales of, or other deemed transactions involving securities provided for under the Plan. The Deferral Account and Matching Account shall be so credited and debited not less frequently than monthly in the manner established and determined from time to time by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The manner in which the Committee determines that Participants" accounts shall be so debited or credited shall be described in written rules or procedures which shall be stated from time to time by a written description thereof which shall be attached to this Plan as Exhibit "D," and furnished to the Participants in the Plan.
 
 
The Investment Return Rate shall be determined in the manner specified in Exhibit "C" attached hereto.
 
To the extent the Investment Return Rate specified in Exhibit "C" attached hereto, applied to a Participant's deferrals includes a rate that is to be determined from deemed investment of such Participant's Account in investment options specified therein, the Committee shall prescribe the manner and form in which a Participant may designate the deemed investment of deferrals and other amounts in his or her Account. A Participant will be allowed to change such designation of deemed investment monthly or with such other frequency as specified by the Committee, in its sole discretion. Provided, that notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated or implied by the Plan, including all Exhibits thereto, the use, reference to or consideration of any such deemed investments made by the Committee or Plan, or designated by Participants, the Committee and the Corporation shall not be obligated to make or cause to be made any particular type or form of investment with respect to the funding or payment of the Deferral Benefits or Deferral Accounts of Participants under the Plan, and no Participant shall have the right to direct or in any manner control any actual investments, if any, made by the Employer or any other person for purposes of providing funds for paying liabilities of the Employer for benefits or otherwise under the Plan. No Participant shall have any ownership or beneficial interest in any such actual investments made by the Employer.
 
 
The Committee shall provide to each Participant in the Short-Term Deferral Plan within 120 days after the close of each Plan Year, a statement setting forth the balance of such Participant's Account as of the Determination Date of the preceding Plan Year and showing all adjustments made thereto during such Plan Year. The Committee shall provide to each Participant in the Long-Term Deferral Plan, not less frequently than quarterly, a statement setting forth the balance of such Participant's Account as of the last date of the preceding quarter in any Plan Year and showing all adjustments made thereto during such quarter of any Plan Year.
 
 
Except as provided in Sections 11.1 and 11.2, below, a Participant shall be 100% vested in his or her Deferral Account and Matching Account at all times.
 
 
Each Deferred Benefit Account previously maintained and existing under the KGS Deferred Compensation Plan on December 31, 1998, shall become a KGS Deferred Benefit Account under the Plan and be maintained and administered under the Plan on and after January 1, 1999. The KGS Deferred Benefit Account of a Participant shall be maintained and administered in accordance with, and be subject to all the terms and provisions of the Plan on and after January 1, 1999. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary expressed or implied in the Plan, on and after January 1, 2000, interest shall be credited to each such KGS Deferred Benefit Account for amounts therein which would have constituted a Short-Term Deferral, if such amounts had been deferred under this Plan, at the same rate as the Investment Return Rate specified for a Participant's Short-Term Deferral under the provisions of paragraph A. of Exhibit C to the Plan; and interest shall be credited to each such KGS Deferred Benefit Account for amounts therein which would have been a Long-Term Deferral, if such amounts had been deferred under this Plan, at the same rate as the Investment Rate specified for a Participant's Long-Term Deferral under the provisions of paragraph B.1. of Exhibit C to the Plan. Such interest shall be credited to KGS Deferred Benefit Accounts of Participants in accordance with Section 5.2, above.
 
 
 
Upon the termination of service as an Employee of the Employer by a Participant who is then entitled to commence receiving payment of a fully vested benefit under the Retirement Plan, the Employer shall pay to the Participant a Deferral Benefit in the form of benefit payment specified in the Participant's written election pursuant to Section 6.5.
 
 
A Short-Term Deferral shall be paid to a Participant beginning on the date specified by the Participant in his or her Participation Agreement, and shall be paid in the form of benefit payment specified in the Participant's written election pursuant to Section 6.5; provided, that no part of a Short-Term Deferral may be paid prior to five (5) years following the Participant's election thereof.
 
 
Upon the Disability of a Participant, the Employer shall pay to the Participant, or the Participant's personal representative, a Deferral Benefit in annual payments for either five (5) or fifteen (15) years, or in a single lump sum equal to the balance of the Participant's Account
 
determined pursuant to Article V, less any amounts previously paid and distributed. The Participant with a Disability, or the disabled Participant's personal representative, shall elect which term of payment is to be paid. Upon the death of a Participant the Participant's Account shall be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary. If the Participant has elected Long-Term Deferral the Deferral Benefit shall be paid to the Beneficiary over the time period elected by the Participant commencing as soon as practicable after the time of death of the Participant. If the Participant has elected a Short-Term Deferral the Deferral Benefit shall be paid to the Beneficiary in a single lump sum payment.
 
 
Upon the termination of service of a Participant as an Employee of the Employer prior to the time such Participant is entitled to commence receiving payment of a fully vested benefit under the Retirement Plan, and not by reason of such Participant's Disability or death, the Employer shall pay to the Participant a Deferral Benefit equal to the balance of the Participant's vested Account determined pursuant to Article V, less any amounts previously paid and distributed, in a single lump sum. This payment shall be made notwithstanding any other period or time of payment that has been elected by the Participant.
 
 
The Deferral Benefit payable to a Participant shall be paid in one of the following forms, as elected by the Participant in his or her Participation Agreement on file as of one (1) year and one (1) day prior to the date of termination:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.2 (minimum five (5) year deferral), the commencement of payments under Sections 6.1 through 6.4, above, shall begin within sixty (60) days following receipt of written notice by the Committee of an event which entitles a Participant (or a Beneficiary) to payments under the Plan.
 
 
The Corporation shall pay to a Participant or his or her survivor beneficiary, as the case may be, an additional amount equal to the amount by which such Participant's retirement benefit under the Retirement Plan is reduced by reason of the deferred compensation elected by the Participant under the Plan not being taken into account in the calculation of such Participant's retirement benefit under the Retirement Plan, but only if such deferred compensation is not taken into account in determining a retirement benefit or payment payable to such Participant under the ONEOK, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) nor under any other plan, arrangement or agreement of the Corporation other than this Plan. An additional amount payable to a Participant, or his or her beneficiary, under this Section 6.7 shall be paid at the same time and in the same form as such Participant's retirement benefit is paid under the Retirement Plan. This Section 6.7 shall apply with respect to such Retirement Plan benefits paid to Participants in this Plan on and after June 1, 1997.
 
 
The Corporation may, from time to time, offer to Participants the opportunity to otherwise defer specific amounts of Base Salary or Bonus for a specific duration and to then be paid out in installments prior to Retirement. These deferrals will be accounted for separately and will be paid out pursuant to an election that applies only to that deferral. The specific terms of each offering will be described in a written memorandum that will be attached to this document. Except where specifically provided otherwise in such memorandum, the terms of such deferrals will adhere to all of the other provisions of the Plan.
 
 
The KGS Deferred Benefit Account of any Participant shall be paid and distributed in accordance with the pertinent terms and provisions of the KGS Deferred Compensation Plan governing distribution and payment of Deferred Benefit Accounts to Participants thereunder in effect as of December 31, 1998, and the elections made by a Participant in his or her KGS Deferred Compensation Plan Participation Agreement and Beneficiary Designation, all of which are
 
incorporated herein by reference; provided however, that notwithstanding the foregoing, the KGS Deferred Benefit Account of any participant who terminates employment with the Corporation, or has terminated employment with the Corporation at any time prior to January 1, 2000, other than by Retirement or by reason of Disability or death, shall on and after that date be paid and distributed in a lump sum payment in like manner and at the time otherwise provided for under Section 6.4 of the Plan. Any such Beneficiary Designation for a KGS Deferred Benefit Account may be changed by a Participant to the extent otherwise permissible under the Plan.
 
 
In the case of hardship, a Participant may apply in writing to the Corporation, or its designated agent, for the immediate distribution of all or part of his or her Deferral Benefit. Such a hardship distribution, however, will involve a substantial penalty, and each such distribution from the Participant's Deferral Benefit made under this provision shall be reduced by a penalty equal to six percent (6%) of the total amount of the distribution. The amount of the penalty shall be forfeited by the Participant. In addition, the Participant must continue to defer Compensation subsequent to such distribution in accordance with the Participant's election and will not be permitted to elect to defer Compensation attributable to the calendar year subsequent to the calendar year of the distribution. The Corporation shall have the sole discretion as to whether such distribution shall be made, and its determination shall be final and conclusive. In making its determinations, the Corporation shall follow a uniform and nondiscriminatory practice.
 
 
7.1 .
Beneficiary Designation
 
Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person or persons as his or her Beneficiary to whom payment under the Plan shall be made in the event of the Participant's death prior to complete distribution to the Participant of his or her Account. Any Beneficiary designation shall be made in a written instrument provided by the Committee. All Beneficiary designations must be filed with the Corporation and shall be effective only when received in writing by the Corporation.
 
 
Any Beneficiary designation may be changed by a Participant by the filing of a new Beneficiary designation, which will cancel all the Participant's prior Beneficiary designations filed with the Committee.
 
 
If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, then the Participant's designated Beneficiary shall be deemed to be the Participant's estate.
 
 
Payment to a Participant's Beneficiary (or, upon the death of a primary Beneficiary, to the contingent Beneficiary or, if none, to the Participant's estate) shall completely discharge the Employer's obligations under the Plan.
 
 
 
The administrative committee for the Plan shall be those members of the Committee who are not Participants, as long as there are at least three (3) such members. If there are not at least three (3) such non-participating persons on the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation shall appoint other non-participating Directors or Corporation officers to serve on the Committee. The Committee shall supervise the administration and operation of the Plan, may from time to time adopt rules and procedures governing the Plan and shall have authority to give interpretive rulings with respect to the Plan. The Committee shall have such other powers and duties as are specified in this Plan as the same may from time to time be constituted, and not in limitation but in amplification of the foregoing, the Committee shall have power, to the exclusion of all other persons, to interpret the provisions of this instrument, to decide any disputes which may arise hereunder; to construe and determine the effect of Participant Agreements, elections, beneficiary designations, and other actions and documents; to determine all questions that shall arise under the Plan, including questions as to the rights of Employees to become Participants, as to the rights of Participants, and including questions submitted by the trustee of a Trust created under Section 11.2 on all matters necessary for it properly to discharge its duties, powers, and obligations; to employ legal counsel, accountants, consultants and agents; to establish and modify such rules, procedures and regulations for carrying out the provisions of the Plan not inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof, as the Committee may consider proper and desirable; and in all things and respects whatsoever, without limitation, to direct the administration of the Plan and any such Trust with the trustee being subject to the direction of the Committee. The Committee may supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in this instrument in such manner and to such extent as it shall deem expedient to carry the same into effect and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency. The Committee may adopt such rules and regulations with respect to the signature by an Employee, Participant and/or Beneficiary as to any agreements, elections or other papers to be signed by Employees or Participants or Beneficiaries and similar matters as the Committee shall determine in view of the laws of any state or states. Any act which this instrument authorizes or requires the Committee to do may be done by a majority of the then members of the Committee. The action of such majority of the members expressed either by a vote at a meeting or in writing without a meeting, shall constitute the action of the Committee and shall have the same effect for all purposes as if assented to by all of the members of the Committee at the time in office, provided, however, that the Committee may, in specific instances, authorize one (1) of its members to act for the Committee when and if it is found desirable and convenient to do so.
 
 
The Committee may appoint an individual, who may be an employee of the Corporation, to be the Committee's agent with respect to the day-to-day administration of the Plan. In addition, the Committee may, from time to time, employ other agents and delegate to them such administrative duties as it sees fit, and may from time to time consult with counsel who may be counsel to the Corporation.
 
 
Any decision or action of the Committee with respect to any question arising out of or in connection with the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan shall be final and binding upon all persons having any interest in the Plan.
 
 
The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless the members of the Committee and their duly appointed agents under Section 8.2 against any and all claims, loss, damage, expense or liability arising from any action or failure to act with respect to the Plan, except in the case of gross negligence or willful misconduct by any such member or agent of the Committee.
 
 
The KGS Deferred Compensation Plan, which was frozen and terminated December 31, 1998, shall be merged and consolidated with this Plan on and after January 1, 1999, and the Corporation shall then assume and pay all deferred compensation and benefits accrued for participants under the KGS Deferred Compensation Plan on December 31, 1998, in accordance with the pertinent terms and provisions of this Plan.
 
 
 
The Corporation, on behalf of itself and of each Subsidiary may at any time amend, modify, suspend or reinstate any or all of the provisions of the Plan, except that no such amendment, modification, suspension or reinstatement may adversely affect any Participant's Account, as it existed as of the day before the effective date of such amendment, modification, suspension or reinstatement, without such Participant's prior written consent. Written notice of any amendment or other action with respect to the Plan shall be given to each Participant.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Participants, their Beneficiaries, and their heirs, successors and assigns, shall have no secured interest or claim in any property or assets of the Employer. The Employer's obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Employer to pay money in the future.
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change in Control, the Corporation shall create an irrevocable Trust, or before such time the Corporation may create an irrevocable or revocable Trust, to hold funds to be used in payment of the obligations of Employers under the Plan. In the event of a Change in Control or prior thereto, the Employers shall fund such Trust in an amount equal to not less than the total value of the Participants' Accounts under the Plan as of the Determination Date immediately preceding the Change in Control, provided that any funds contained therein shall remain liable for the claims of the general creditors of the respective Employers. Pursuant to this Section 11.2 the Corporation may, without further reference to or action by any Employee, Participant, or any Beneficiary from time to time enter into such further agreements with a trustee or other parties, and make such amendments to said trust agreement or such further agreements, as the Corporation may deem necessary or desirable to carry out the Plan; from time to time designate successor trustees of such a Trust; and from time to time take such other steps and execute such other instruments as the Corporation may deem necessary or desirable to carry the out the Plan. The Committee shall advise the trustee of any such Trust in writing with respect to all Deferral Benefits which become payable under the terms of the Plan and shall direct the trustee to pay such Deferral Benefits from the respective Participants' Accounts, and the Committee shall have authority to otherwise deal with and direct the trustee of
 
such a Trust in matters pertinent to the Plan. It is intended that any Trust created hereunder is to be treated as a "grantor" trust under the Code, and the establishment of such a Trust is not intended to cause a Participant to realize current income on amounts contributed thereto, such a Trust is not intended to cause the Plan to be "funded" under ERISA and the Code, and any such Trust shall be so interpreted.
 
 
No right or interest under the Plan of a Participant or his or her Beneficiary (or any person claiming through or under any of them), shall be assignable or transferable in any manner or be subject to alienation, anticipation, sale, pledge, encumbrance or other legal process or in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of any such Participant or Beneficiary. If any Participant or Beneficiary shall attempt to or shall transfer, assign, alienate, anticipate, sell, pledge or otherwise encumber his or her benefits hereunder or any part thereof, or if by reason of his or her bankruptcy or other event happening at any time such benefits would devolve upon anyone else or would not be enjoyed by him or her, then the Committee, in its discretion, may terminate such Participant's or Beneficiary's interest in any such benefit (including the Deferral Account) to the extent the Committee considers necessary or advisable to prevent or limit the effects of such occurrence. Termination shall be effected by filing a written instrument with the Secretary of the Corporation and making reasonable efforts to deliver a copy to the Participant or Beneficiary whose interest is adversely affected (the "Terminated Participant").
 
As long as the Terminated Participant is alive, any benefits affected by the termination shall be retained by the Employer and, in the Committee's sole and absolute judgment, may be paid to or expended for the benefit of the Terminated Participant, his or her spouse, his or her children or any other person or persons in fact dependent upon him or her in such a manner as the Committee shall deem proper. Upon the death of the Terminated Participant, all benefits withheld from him or her and not paid to others in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be disposed of according to the provisions of the Plan that would apply if he or she died prior to the time that all benefits to which he or she was entitled were paid to him or her.
 
 
The Plan is not intended to be subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A with respect to Compensation deferred under the Plan pursuant to its terms on or before December 31, 2004, except to the extent guidance issued under Code Section 409A(f) is applicable to the maintenance and administration of the Plan. Except for the amendment of the Plan to terminate and freeze participation and deferrals under the Plan effective December 31, 2004, no other material amendment or modification of the Plan after October 3, 2004, is intended, nor to be given effect, unless it is made or allowed pursuant to such guidance. The Plan shall be construed and administered in a manner consistent with this Section 11.4.
 
 
The captions contained herein are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction hereof.
 
 
The provisions of the Plan shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the State of Oklahoma.
 
 
The provisions of the Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Corporation, its Subsidiaries, and their respective successors and assigns. The term "successors" as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity which shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Corporation or a Subsidiary and successors of any such corporation or other business entity.
 
 
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to confer upon any Eligible Employee the right to continue to serve as an Eligible Employee of the Employer or in any other capacity.
 
 
 
 
 
Re:
Section 3.1 - Eligible Employees
Effective Date: January 20, 2000
 
Except as otherwise specifically determined by the Committee, Eligible Employees who may participate in the Plan shall be designated in writing by the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, each Plan Year during the period after November 1 and prior to the next January 1 ("Designation Period"), with such designation to indicate the Eligible Employees for the Fiscal Year next following such Designation Period who shall be each Employee who (i) had Base Salary on November 1 of that Plan Year, which places such Employee in the group of Employees consisting of the top two percent (2%) of the Employees when ranked on the basis of Base Salary, (ii) is designated on such November 1 to be at least within Pay Grade 12 or its deemed equivalent, as established by the Corporation, and (iii) is so designated by name in writing in an instrument signed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, or his designee. The Corporation's designation of Eligible Employees for a Plan Year shall be reported to and approved by the Board in accordance with its directions.
 
An Employee must be an Eligible Employee prior to the beginning of a Plan Year in order to participate in the Plan for such Plan Year, unless otherwise determined by the Committee and approved by the Board.
 
A list of the Eligible Employees who are so designated and approved for a Plan Year shall be made by the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, the Committee, or by a duly authorized representative of the Committee, and be maintained with the Plan in the records of the Corporation.
 
 
 
 
Re:
Section 4.1 - Amount of Deferral
Effective Date: January 1, 1999  
 
As of the date above, and effective until this Exhibit is modified by the Committee and Board, the table below indicates the types of Compensation that are eligible for deferral at the designated percentages stated:
 
 
A Participant may defer Compensation only in 1% increments of Base Salary and/or Bonus.
 
 
 
 
 
Re:
Section 2.21 - Investment Return Rate
Date: July 1, 1999
 
 
For amounts deferred by a Participant as a Short-Term Deferral, the Investment Return Rate for the time period from June 1, 1997 through December 31, 1997, is the Five-Year Treasury Bond Rate on the first day of June 1997. The rate credited during each successive calendar year will be the Five-Year Treasury Bond Rate as of the first business day of January of that year.
 
 
The Investment Return Rate on a Participant's Long-Term Deferral shall be the rate determined pursuant to the following:
 
 
 
Provided, that notwithstanding anything to contrary expressed or implied herein, on and after May 1, 2004, a Participant may not elect to have the Investment Return Rate on his or her Long-Term Deferral be an amount that is directly or indirectly equivalent to or based upon the amount of gains, losses and earnings that would result if the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account was invested in ONEOK, Inc. Common Stock as an investment option available under
 
the Thrift Plan or otherwise; and provided, further, that any amount of a Participant's Long-Term Deferrals in his or her Deferred Compensation Account that is deemed invested in ONEOK, Inc. Common Stock as an available Thrift Plan investment option as of May 1, 2004, pursuant to an election made by the Participant under the Plan prior to that date, shall continue to be deemed invested in that investment option unless and until changed by the Participant pursuant to the election rights provided for herein.
 
A Participant electing a Long-Term Deferral Investment Return Rate under this paragraph 2 shall so designate such deemed investment of his/her Deferred Compensation Account in the manner and form, and at such times as prescribed by the Committee. A Participant shall be allowed to change such designation at least once each calendar quarter, or more frequently as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. Such Investment Return Rate shall be determined and calculated in the manner determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and added to or deducted from the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account periodically, not less frequently than annually. Such Investment Return Rate shall be so credited to or deducted from a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account until all payments with respect thereto have been made to the Participant, or to the Participant's designated Beneficiary pursuant to the Plan. The Employer shall not be liable or otherwise responsible for any decrease in a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account because of the investment performance resulting from application of the foregoing provisions which make the Investment Return Rate on a Participant's Long-Term Deferrals under the Plan equivalent to the investment return that is realized by deemed investment of the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account in Thrift Plan investment options designated by the Participant.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employer shall not be required to actually invest amounts deferred by a Participant nor the Deferred Compensation Account of any Participant in any particular form, type or amount of investment, and no Participant shall have the right to direct or in any manner control the actual investments, if any, made by the Employer or any other person for purposes of providing funds for paying the liabilities of the Employer for benefits or otherwise under the Plan; and a Participant shall not have any ownership or beneficial interest in any such actual investments that may be made by the Employer. In no event shall any Participant or Beneficiary have a right to receive an amount under the Plan other than that of a general unsecured creditor of the Employer notwithstanding the foregoing provisions with respect to the measurement and determination of a Participant's Investment Return Rate on his/her Long-Term Deferral by reference to the performance of deemed investments in Thrift Plan investment options designated by the Participant.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Re:
Section 5.2 - Crediting and Debiting of
      
Investment Return, Other Items To
                             
Participant Accounts
 
Date: November 1, 1999
 
(1) The Deferral Account and Matching Account of each Participant shall be periodically credited and increased, or debited and reduced, as the case may be, by the amount of investment return specified under Section 5.3. of the Plan.
 
(2) Prior to January 1, 2001 and except as otherwise provided herein, the Deferral Account and Matching Account shall be credited and debited with investment return and losses, if any, not less frequently than on a monthly basis, at the beginning of each calendar month based on the average balance of the Participant's Deferral Account and Matching Account, respectively since the beginning of the next preceding calendar month, but after such Accounts have been adjusted for any deferrals, credits, debits, distributions and payments for such period. On and after January 1, 2001 and except as otherwise provided herein, the Deferral Account and Matching Account shall be credited and debited with investment return and losses, if any, not less frequently than on a monthly basis after such Accounts have been adjusted for any deferrals, credits, debits, distributions and payments.
 
(3) A Participant's Accounts will be charged with cost of any deemed purchases of securities and credited with proceeds of any deemed sales of securities which may be considered as made in respect to the Investment Return Rate specified in Exhibit "C" of the Plan by reason of changes in deemed investments designated by such Participant, in substantially the same manner as would occur if such securities were being purchased or sold by a Participant under the Thrift Plan. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, allocate, charge and credit other items and amounts to such deemed purchases and sales in a manner comparable to the administration of such items under the Thrift Plan.
 
(4) Prior to January 1, 2001, all of a Participant's deferrals of Base Salary in a calendar month shall be deemed to be made on the first day of such calendar month and will be credited and debited with investment return from that day. On and after January 1, 2001, all of a Participant's deferrals of Base Salary in a calendar month shall be deemed to be made as of the date it otherwise would have been paid to the Participant.
 
(5) A Participant deferral of Bonus will be credited and debited with investment return
 
from the date of deferral.
 
(6) Until a Participant or his or her Beneficiary receives his or her entire account, the unpaid balance thereof shall be credited and debited with investment return as provided in Section 5.2. of the Plan.
 

 
Exhibit 10.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This 2005 ONEOK, Inc., Employee Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") and related agreements between the Employer and certain management or highly compensated employees is an unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation plan and arrangement.
 
The purpose of the Plan is to provide a select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Employer with the option to defer the receipt of portions of their compensation payable for services rendered to the Employer, and provide nonqualified deferred compensation benefits which are not available to such employees by reason of limitations on employer and employee contributions to qualified pension or profit-sharing plans under the federal tax laws.
 
It is intended that the Plan will assist in attracting and retaining qualified individuals to serve as officers and managers of the Employer; and the Plan is intended to constitute a plan which is unfunded and maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of, and as described in Section 201(2) and related provisions of ERISA.
 
The Plan is intended to meet all requirements of Section 409A of the Code for compensation deferred under the Plan to not be includible in gross income of the Participant until actually paid or distributed pursuant to the Plan.
 
The Plan is generally effective on January 1, 2005.
 
 
When used in this Plan and initially capitalized, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated:
 
 
"Account" means the sum of a Participant's Deferral Account and Matching Account under the Plan.
 
 
"Base Salary" means a Participant's basic wage or salary paid by an Employer to the Participant without regard to any increases or decreases in such basic wage or salary as a result of (i) an Election to defer basic wage or salary under this Plan or (ii) an Election between benefits or cash
 
provided under a plan of an Employer maintained pursuant to Sections 125 or 401(k) of the Code, and as limited in Exhibit B attached hereto. The Base Salary does not include any Lump Sum Merit Award paid to a Participant, nor any Bonus, as defined in Section 2.5, below.
 
 
"Beneficiary" means the person or persons designated or deemed to be designated by the Participant pursuant to Article VII to receive benefits payable under the Plan in the event of the Participant's death.
 
 
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
 
 
"Bonus" means the cash bonus paid by the Employer to a Participant under the Key Employee Incentive Plan without regard to any decreases as a result of (i) an Election to defer all or any portion of such Bonus under this Plan or (ii) an Election between benefits or cash provided under the Thrift Plan or any other plan of the Employer maintained pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Code.
 
 
"Change in Ownership or Control" means to the extent provided by Treasury Regulations issued under Code Section 409A, a change in the ownership or effective control of the Corporation, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Corporation.
 
 
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and Treasury regulations thereunder, as amended from time to time.
 
 
"Committee" means the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
 
 
"Compensation" means the Base Salary and Bonus payable with respect to an Eligible Employee for each calendar year.
 
 
"Corporation" means ONEOK, Inc., its successors and assigns, or any division or Subsidiary thereof.
 
 
"Deferral Account" means the account maintained on the books of the Employer for the purpose of accounting for the amount of Compensation that each Participant elects to defer under the Plan and for the amount of investment return credited or debited thereto for each Participant in accordance with Article V.
 
 
"Deferral Benefit" means the benefit payable to a Participant or his or her Beneficiary pursuant to Article VI.
 
 
"Determination Date" means a date on which the amount of a Participant's Account is determined and updated as provided in Article V. Each December 31 of a calendar year shall be the Determination Date.
 
 
"Disabled" means that a Participant is unable to engage in substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident or health plan covering Employees of the Corporation.
 
 
"Election means the initial Election of a Participant to defer Compensation to the Participant for services performed for a Plan Year or other period pursuant to the Plan.
 
 
"Employee" means an employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary.
 
 
"Eligible Employee" means a highly compensated or management employee of the Corporation who is designated by the Committee, by individual name, or group or description, in accordance with Section 3.1, as eligible to participate in the Plan.
 
 
"Employer" means, with respect to a Participant, the Corporation or the Subsidiary which pays such Participant's Compensation.
 
 
"ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
 
 
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Corporation commencing January 1 and ending the following December 31.
 
 
"Fixed Schedule" means the distribution or payment of Compensation deferred under the Plan in a fixed schedule of distributions or payments that are determined and fixed at the time the deferral of such Compensation is first elected by the Participant.
 
 
"Investment Return Rate" means the rate of investment return to be credited to a Participant's Deferral Account and Matching Account pursuant to Section 5.2, which rate shall be specified in Section 5.3 and Exhibit "C" attached hereto.
 
 
"Just Cause" shall mean the Employee's conviction in a court of law of a felony, or any crime or offense in a court of law of a felony, or any crime or offense involving misuse or misappropriation of money or property, the Employee's violation of any covenant, agreement or obligation not to disclose confidential information regarding the business of the Corporation (or a division or Subsidiary); any violation by the Employee of any covenant not to compete with the Corporation (or a division or Subsidiary); any act of dishonesty by the Employee which adversely affects the business of the Corporation (or a division or Subsidiary); any willful or intentional act of the Employee which adversely affects the business of, or reflects unfavorably on the reputation of the Corporation (or a division or Subsidiary); the Employee's use of alcohol or drugs which interferes with the Employee's performance of duties as an employee of the Corporation (or a division or Subsidiary); or the Employee's failure or refusal to perform the specific directives of the Corporation's Board, or its officers which directives are consistence with the scope and nature of the Employee's duties and responsibilities with the existence and occurrence of all of such causes to be determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion; provided, that nothing contained in the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall be deemed to interfere in any way with the right of the Corporation (or a division or Subsidiary), which is hereby acknowledged, to terminate the Employee's employment at any time without cause.
 
 
"Key Employee" means an Employee who is (i) an officer of the Corporation having annual compensation greater than $130,000 (adjusted for inflation at the same time and in the same manner as is provided for in Code Section 416(i) and limited to 50 employees of the Corporation, (ii) a 5-percent owner of the Corporation, and (iii) a 1-percent owner of the Corporation having annual compensation from the Corporation greater than $150,000.
 
 
"Key Employee Incentive Plan" means the Key Employee Annual Incentive Plan of the Corporation.
 
 
"Long-Term Deferral" means a deferral made by a Participant that is not a Short-Term Deferral.
 
 
"Lump Sum Merit Award" means a Lump Sum Merit Award granted and paid to a Participant pursuant to the merit compensation program of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
 
 
"Matching Account" means the account maintained on the books of the Employer for the purpose of accounting for the Matching Amount and for the amount of investment return credited thereto for each Participant pursuant to Article V.
 
 
"Matching Amount" means the amount credited to a Participant's Matching Account under Section 4.4.
 
 
"Matching Percentage" means the matching contribution percentage in effect for a specific Plan Year under the Thrift Plan.
 
 
"Participant" means any Eligible Employee who elects to participate by filing a Participation Agreement as provided in Section 3.2.
 
 
"Participation Agreement" means the agreement filed by a Participant, in the form prescribed by the Committee, pursuant to Section 3.2.
 
 
"Person" means an individual, a trust, estate, partnership, limited liability company, association, corporation or other entity.
 
 
"Performance-Based Compensation" means Compensation, including Bonus (as hereinabove defined), that is conditioned upon or subject to meeting certain requirements similar to those under Code Section 162(m), as more particularly provided for in Treasury Regulations issued under Code Section 409A.
 
 
"Plan" means this ONEOK, Inc. Employee Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time.
 
 
"Plan Year" means a twelve-month period commencing January 1 and ending the following December 31.
 
 
"Retirement" means the voluntary termination of employment of a Participant when retirement benefits become payable to the Participant under the Retirement Plan.
 
 
"Retirement Plan" means the Retirement Plan for Employees of ONEOK, Inc. and Subsidiaries.
 
 
"Separation from Service" means the termination of a Participant's employment with the Corporation.
 
 
"Shares" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation and any other securities into which such shares are changed or for which such shares are exchanged.
 
 
"Short-Term Deferral" means a deferral elected by a Participant under which payment of the Deferral Benefit shall commence on a date specified by the Participant, but not less than five (5) years after the Participant's Election thereof; provided, that the Committee, may, in its sole discretion, determine and direct that a shorter period, of not less than one (1) year, be applied to any Short-Term Deferral.
 
 
"Specified Time" means a specified date at which compensation deferred by a Participant pursuant to the Plan is required to be distributed or paid and which is specified at the time the deferral of such compensation is initially elected by the Participant.
 
 
"Subsequent Election" means and Election made by a Participant with respect to the time or form of distribution or payment Compensation deferred under the Plan that is made at any time after his/her Election with respect to such deferred Compensation.
 
 
"Subsidiary" means any corporation of which the Corporation owns, directly or indirectly, at least a majority of the shares of stock having voting power in the Election of directors of such corporation.
 
 
"Taxable Year" shall mean the Plan Year commencing January 1 and ending the following December 31.
 
 
"Thrift Plan" means the Thrift Plan for Employees of ONEOK, Inc. and Subsidiaries.
 
 
"Trust" means a trust created and established pursuant to Section 11.2 of the Plan, or otherwise by the Corporation with respect to the Plan.
 
 
"Unforeseeable Emergency" means a sever financial hardship to the Participant resulting from illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant's spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Code Section 152(a)) of the Participant, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant, and it is intended and directed with respect to any such Unforeseeable Emergency that any amounts distributed under the Plan by reason thereof shall not exceed the amounts necessary to satisfy such emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise or by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship.
 
 
 
Eligibility to participate in the Plan shall be granted to those Eligible Employees who are designated by the Committee and approved by the Board. Subject to Section 3.4, below (providing for exclusion of Employees not qualifying under certain definitional terms of federal law), the Committee shall adopt a complete written list and/or designation of the Eligible Employees, by individual name or by reference to an identifiable group of persons or by descriptions of the components of compensation of an individual which would qualify the individuals who are eligible to participate, and all of whom shall be a select group of management or highly compensated employees. The written list and/or designation of Eligible Employees by the Committee, as approved by the Board, from time to time, shall be adopted and maintained as provided in Exhibit A attached hereto.
 
 
Participation in the Plan shall be limited to Eligible Employees who elect to participate in the Plan by timely filing a Participation Agreement with the Committee. An Eligible Employee shall commence participation in the Plan upon the first day of the Plan Year or Fiscal Year as the case may be, designated in his or her Participation Agreement filed with the Committee prior to the beginning of such Plan Year. The Committee, with the Board's approval, may in its sole discretion, allow individuals who become Eligible Employees after the beginning of a Plan Year to elect to participate in the Plan for the remaining part of such Plan Year; provided, that any Election by such an Eligible Employee to initially defer Compensation upon becoming a Participant in the Plan shall be made within thirty (30) days after the date he/she becomes a Participant in the Plan.
 
 
A Participant may not change a previously elected percentage of deferral of Compensation, or terminate his or her Election to participate in the Plan for a Plan Year. Except as may otherwise be determined and approved by the Committee, a Participant's Election to defer Base Salary and Bonus shall only be effective as of the beginning of the next Plan Year following receipt of the Participant's Election by the Corporation. Determinations on all Elections and of any effective dates other than as specified above, shall be made by the Committee in accordance with its prevailing administrative procedures.
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, if the Committee determines that any Participant may not qualify as a "management or highly compensated employee" within the meaning of ERISA, or regulations thereunder, the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion, that such Participant shall cease to be eligible to participate in this Plan. Upon such determination, the Employer shall make an immediate lump sum payment to the Participant equal to the vested amount credited to the Participant's Account. Upon such payment, no benefit shall thereafter be payable under this Plan either to the Participant or any Beneficiary of the
 
Participant, and all of the Participant's Elections as to the time and manner of payment of his or her Account will be deemed to be canceled.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the requirements of Section 4.4, below, a Participant shall be allowed to defer Compensation under the Plan by making either a Long-Term Deferral or a Short-Term Deferral. The Participant shall elect and designate his or her deferral period as either a Long-Term Deferral or a Short-Term Deferral in the Participation Agreement filed with the Committee for a Plan Year.
 
 
Subject to the requirements of Section 4.4, below, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine and direct that the amount of deferral and period of deferral which may be elected for Compensation, Base Salary or Bonus payable to Participants for any particular Plan Year or
 
Fiscal Year, or other period of service, be limited to an amount or amounts, and for a period or periods other than that which is otherwise generally provided herein; and the Committee may from time to time, in its sole discretion, also determine and direct that all or part of the Bonus payable to Participants for any period of service shall be deferred only for the period or periods of deferral determined solely by the Committee without any election thereon by Participants.
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary expressed or, implied herein, the following requirements stated in this Section 4.4 shall apply to the Plan and to all Elections by Participants to defer Compensation and receive distributions or payments under the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
The Employer shall provide and credit a Matching Amount under this Plan with respect to each Participant who is eligible to be allocated matching contributions under the Thrift Plan; except that the Committee may, prior to any Plan Year, make a determination not to provide for the crediting of Matching Amounts for that Plan Year. The Matching Amount to be credited to a
 
Participant's Matching Account for a Plan Year shall be an amount equal to the excess of (i) the Participant's matching contribution percentage under the Thrift Plan for the Plan Year multiplied by the Participant's Compensation from the Employer in that Plan Year, over (ii) the amount of Thrift Plan matching contributions made by the Employer that are allocated to the Participant's Thrift Plan account for that Plan Year; it being intended that a Participant shall have credited to his or her Matching Account the amount of matching contributions which could not be allocated to the Participant's Thrift Plan account for the Plan Year by reason of all limitations on compensation and contributions applicable to Thrift Plan matching contributions under the Code and Treasury regulations thereunder.
 
 
The amount of Compensation that a Participant elects pursuant to an Election to defer from Base Salary under the Plan shall be credited by the Employer to the Participant's Deferral Account monthly, provided that the Employer shall reduce the deferral amount credited by the amount of any taxes or other amounts required to be withheld by the Employer from a Participant's deferred Compensation pursuant to any state, federal or local law. The Matching Amount under the Plan for each Participant under Section 4.4 shall be credited by the Employer no later than the time that matching contributions are allocated under the Thrift Plan. The amount of Compensation that a Participant elects pursuant to an Election to defer from Bonus under the Plan shall be credited by the Employer to the Participant's Deferral Account at the time the Bonus would otherwise be paid or payable to the Participant under the Key Employee Incentive Plan.
 
 
 
As of each Determination Date, a Participant's Account shall consist of the balance of the Participant's Account as of the immediately preceding Determination Date, plus the Participant's deferred Compensation and Matching Amount credited pursuant to Section 4.4 since the immediately preceding Determination Date, plus investment return credited as of such Determination Date pursuant to Section 5.2, minus the aggregate amount of distributions, if any, made from such Account since the immediately preceding Determination Date.
 
 
The Deferral Account and Matching Account of each Participant shall be periodically credited and increased, or debited and reduced, as the case may be, by the amount of investment return specified under Section 5.3. The Deferral Account and Matching Account of each Participant shall also be debited and credited for any deemed purchases or sales of, or other deemed transactions involving securities provided for under the Plan. The Deferral Account and Matching Account shall be so credited and debited not less frequently than monthly in the manner established and determined from time to time by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The manner in which the Committee determines that Participants" accounts shall be so debited or credited shall be described in written rules or procedures which shall be stated from time to time
 
by a written description thereof which shall be attached to this Plan as Exhibit "D," and furnished to the Participants in the Plan.
 
 
The Investment Return Rate shall be determined in the manner specified in Exhibit "C" attached hereto.
 
To the extent the Investment Return Rate specified in Exhibit "C" attached hereto, applied to a Participant's deferrals includes a rate that is to be determined from deemed investment of such Participant's Account in investment options specified therein, the Committee shall prescribe the manner and form in which a Participant may designate the deemed investment of deferrals and other amounts in his or her Account. A Participant will be allowed to change such designation of deemed investment monthly or with such other frequency as specified by the Committee, in its sole discretion. Provided, that notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated or implied by the Plan, including all Exhibits thereto, the use, reference to or consideration of any such deemed investments made by the Committee or Plan, or designated by Participants, the Committee and the Corporation shall not be obligated to make or cause to be made any particular type or form of investment with respect to the funding or payment of the Deferral Benefits or Deferral Accounts of Participants under the Plan, and no Participant shall have the right to direct or in any manner control any actual investments, if any, made by the Employer or any other person for purposes of providing funds for paying liabilities of the Employer for benefits or otherwise under the Plan. No Participant shall have any ownership or beneficial interest in any such actual investments made by the Employer.
 
 
The Committee shall provide to each Participant in the Short-Term Deferral Plan within 120 days after the close of each Plan Year, a statement setting forth the balance of such Participant's Account as of the Determination Date of the preceding Plan Year and showing all adjustments made thereto during such Plan Year. The Committee shall provide to each Participant in the Long-Term Deferral Plan, not less frequently than quarterly, a statement setting forth the balance of such Participant's Account as of the last date of the preceding quarter in any Plan Year and showing all adjustments made thereto during such quarter of any Plan Year.
 
 
Except as provided in Sections 11.1 and 11.2, below, a Participant shall be 100% vested in his or her Deferral Account and Matching Account at all times.
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary expressed or implied herein, the following requirements stated in this Section 6.1 shall apply to the Plan, to all Elections or Subsequent
 
Elections made by Participants under the Plan, and to all distributions and payments made pursuant to the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the requirements stated in Section 6.1, above, upon the Separation from Service as an Employee of the Employer by a Participant who is then entitled to commence receiving payment of a fully vested benefit under the Retirement Plan, the Employer shall pay to the Participant a Deferral Benefit in the form of benefit payment specified in the Participant's written Election pursuant to Section 6.6.
 
 
Subject to the requirements stated in Section 6.1, above, a Short-Term Deferral shall be paid to a Participant beginning on the date specified by the Participant in his or her Participation Agreement, and shall be paid in the form of benefit payment specified in the Participant's written Election pursuant to Section 6.5; provided, that no part of a Short-Term Deferral may be paid prior to five (5) years following the Participant's Election thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the requirements stated in Section 6.1, above, upon the separation from Service of a Participant as an Employee of the Employer prior to the time such Participant is entitled to commence receiving payment of a fully vested benefit under the Retirement Plan, and not by reason of such Participant's Disability or death, the Employer shall pay to the Participant a Deferral Benefit equal to the balance of the Participant's vested Account determined pursuant to Article V. This payment shall be made notwithstanding any other period or time of payment that has been elected by the Participant.
 
 
The Deferral Benefit payable to a Participant shall be paid in one of the following forms, as elected by the Participant at the time of his or her Election, and pursuant to such Election and his or her Participation Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the requirements stated in Section 6.1, above, and except as otherwise provided in Section 6.2, the commencement of payments under Sections 6.1 through 6.4, above, shall begin at the time specified by the Participant in his or her Election and Participation Agreement consistent with the terms and provisions of the Plan.
 
 
Subject to the requirements stated in Section 6.1, above, the Corporation shall pay to a Participant or his or her survivor Beneficiary, as the case may be, an additional amount equal to the amount by which such Participant's retirement benefit under the Retirement Plan is reduced by reason of the deferred Compensation elected by the Participant under the Plan not being taken into account in the calculation of such Participant's retirement benefit under the Retirement Plan, but only if such deferred Compensation is not taken into account in determining a retirement benefit or payment payable to such Participant under the ONEOK, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP), the 2005 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (2005 SERP), nor under any other plan, arrangement or agreement of the Corporation other than this Plan; and the additional amount payable to a Participant, or his or her Beneficiary, under this Section 6.8 shall be paid at the same time and in the same form as such Participant's retirement benefit is paid
 
under the Retirement Plan. A Participant may not elect to have such additional amount paid at any other time or in any other form.
 
 
Subject to the requirements stated in Section 6.1, above, the Corporation may, from time to time, offer to Participants the opportunity to otherwise defer specific amounts of Base Salary or Bonus for a specific duration to a Specified Time and to then be paid out in installments prior to Retirement. These deferrals will be accounted for separately and will be paid out pursuant to an Election that applies only to that deferral. The specific terms of each offering will be described in a written memorandum that will be attached to this document. Except where specifically provided otherwise in such memorandum, the terms of such deferrals will adhere to all of the other provisions of the Plan.
 
 
Subject to the requirements stated in Section 6.1, above, in the case of an Unforeseeable Emergency, a Participant may apply in writing to the Corporation, or its designated agent, for the immediate distribution of all or part of his or her Deferral Benefit; provided, that such a distribution shall not exceed the amounts necessary to satisfy the emergency involved plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise or by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship). In addition, the Participant must continue to defer Compensation subsequent to such distribution in accordance with the Participant's Election and will not be permitted to elect to defer Compensation attributable to the calendar year subsequent to the calendar year of the distribution. The Corporation shall have the sole discretion as to whether such distribution shall be made, and its determination shall be final and conclusive. In making its determinations, the Corporation shall follow a uniform and nondiscriminatory practice.
 
 
 
Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person or persons as his or her Beneficiary to whom payment under the Plan shall be made in the event of the Participant's death prior to complete distribution to the Participant of his or her Account. Any Beneficiary designation shall be made in a written instrument provided by the Committee. All Beneficiary designations must be filed with the Corporation and shall be effective only when received in writing by the Corporation.
 
 
Any Beneficiary designation may be changed by a Participant by the filing of a new Beneficiary designation, which will cancel all the Participant's prior Beneficiary designations filed with the Committee.
 
 
If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, then the Participant's designated Beneficiary shall be deemed to be the Participant's estate.
 
 
Payment to a Participant's Beneficiary (or, upon the death of a primary Beneficiary, to the contingent Beneficiary or, if none, to the Participant's estate) shall completely discharge the Employer's obligations under the Plan.
 
 
 
The administrative committee for the Plan shall be those members of the Committee who are not Participants, as long as there are at least three (3) such members. If there are not at least three (3) such non-participating persons on the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation shall appoint other non-participating Directors or Corporation officers to serve on the Committee. The Committee shall supervise the administration and operation of the Plan, may from time to time adopt rules and procedures governing the Plan and shall have authority to give interpretive rulings with respect to the Plan. The Committee shall have such other powers and duties as are specified in this Plan as the same may from time to time be constituted, and not in limitation but in amplification of the foregoing, the Committee shall have power, to the exclusion of all other persons, to interpret the provisions of this instrument, to decide any disputes which may arise hereunder; to construe and determine the effect of Participant Agreements, Elections, beneficiary designations, and other actions and documents; to determine all questions that shall arise under the Plan, including questions as to the rights of Employees to become Participants, as to the rights of Participants, and including questions submitted by the trustee of a Trust created under Section 11.2 on all matters necessary for it properly to discharge its duties, powers, and obligations; to employ legal counsel, accountants, consultants and agents; to establish and modify such rules, procedures and regulations for carrying out the provisions of the Plan not inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof, as the Committee may consider proper and desirable; and in all things and respects whatsoever, without limitation, to direct the administration of the Plan and any such Trust with the trustee being subject to the direction of the Committee. The Committee may supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in this instrument in such manner and to such extent as it shall deem expedient to carry the same into effect and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency. The Committee may adopt such rules and regulations with respect to the signature by an Employee, Participant and/or Beneficiary as to any agreements, Elections or other papers to be signed by Employees or Participants or Beneficiaries and similar matters as the Committee shall determine in view of the laws of any state or states. Any act which this instrument authorizes or requires the Committee to do may be done by a majority of the then members of the Committee. The action of such majority of the members expressed either by a vote at a meeting or in writing without a meeting, shall constitute the action of the Committee and shall have the same effect for all purposes as if
 
assented to by all of the members of the Committee at the time in office, provided, however, that the Committee may, in specific instances, authorize one (1) of its members to act for the Committee when and if it is found desirable and convenient to do so.
 
 
The Committee may appoint an individual, who may be an employee of the Corporation, to be the Committee's agent with respect to the day-to-day administration of the Plan. In addition, the Committee may, from time to time, employ other agents and delegate to them such administrative duties as it sees fit, and may from time to time consult with counsel who may be counsel to the Corporation.
 
 
Any decision or action of the Committee with respect to any question arising out of or in connection with the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan shall be final and binding upon all persons having any interest in the Plan.
 
 
The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless the members of the Committee and their duly appointed agents under Section 8.2 against any and all claims, loss, damage, expense or liability arising from any action or failure to act with respect to the Plan, except in the case of gross negligence or willful misconduct by any such member or agent of the Committee.
 
 
 
The Corporation, on behalf of itself and of each Subsidiary may at any time amend, modify, suspend or reinstate any or all of the provisions of the Plan, except that no such amendment, modification, suspension or reinstatement may adversely affect any Participant's Account, as it existed as of the day before the effective date of such amendment, modification, suspension or reinstatement, without such Participant's prior written consent. Written notice of any amendment or other action with respect to the Plan shall be given to each Participant.
 
 
The Corporation, on behalf of itself and of each Subsidiary, in its sole discretion, may terminate this Plan at any time and for any reason whatsoever. Upon termination of the Plan, the Committee shall take those actions necessary to administer any Participant Accounts existing prior to the effective date of such termination; provided, however, that a termination of the Plan shall not adversely affect the value of a Participant's Account, the crediting of investment return under Section 5.2, or the timing or method of distribution of a Participant's Account, without the
 
Participant's prior written consent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a termination of the Plan shall not give rise to accelerated or automatic vesting of any Participant's Matching Account.
 
 
 
Participants, their Beneficiaries, and their heirs, successors and assigns, shall have no secured interest or claim in any property or assets of the Employer. The Employer's obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Employer to pay money in the future.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No right or interest under the Plan of a Participant or his or her Beneficiary (or any person claiming through or under any of them), shall be assignable or transferable in any manner or be subject to alienation, anticipation, sale, pledge, encumbrance or other legal process or in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of any such Participant or Beneficiary. If any Participant or Beneficiary shall attempt to or shall transfer, assign, alienate, anticipate, sell, pledge or otherwise encumber his or her benefits hereunder or any part thereof, or if by reason of his or her bankruptcy or other event happening at any time such benefits would devolve upon anyone else or would not be enjoyed by him or her, then the Committee, in its discretion, may terminate such Participant's or Beneficiary's interest in any such benefit (including the Deferral Account) to the extent the Committee considers necessary or advisable to prevent or limit the effects of such occurrence. Termination shall be effected by filing a written instrument with the Secretary of the Corporation and making reasonable efforts to deliver a copy to the Participant or Beneficiary whose interest is adversely affected (the "Terminated Participant").
 
As long as the Terminated Participant is alive, any benefits affected by the termination shall be retained by the Employer and, in the Committee's sole and absolute judgment, may be paid to or expended for the benefit of the Terminated Participant, his or her spouse, his or her children or any other person or persons in fact dependent upon him or her in such a manner as the Committee shall deem proper. Upon the death of the Terminated Participant, all benefits withheld from him or her and not paid to others in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be disposed of according to the provisions of the Plan that would apply if he or she died prior to the time that all benefits to which he or she was entitled were paid to him or her.
 
 
The captions contained herein are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction hereof.
 
 
The provisions of the Plan shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the State of Oklahoma.
 
 
The provisions of the Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Corporation, its Subsidiaries, and their respective successors and assigns. The term "successors" as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity which shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Corporation or a Subsidiary and successors of any such corporation or other business entity.
 
 
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to confer upon any Eligible Employee the right to continue to serve as an Eligible Employee of the Employer or in any other capacity.
 
 
 
 
 
Effective Date: January 1, 2005
 
Except as otherwise specifically determined by the Committee, Eligible Employees who may participate in the Plan shall be designated in writing by the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, each Plan Year during the period after November 1 and prior to the next January 1 ("Designation Period"), with such designation to indicate the Eligible Employees for the Plan Year next following such Designation Period who shall be each Employee who (i) had Base Salary on November 1 of that Plan Year, which places such Employee in the group of Employees consisting of the top two percent (2%) of the Employees when ranked on the basis of Base Salary, (ii) is designated on such November 1 to be at least within Pay Grade 12 or its deemed equivalent, as established by the Corporation, and (iii) is so designated by name in writing in an instrument signed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, or his designee. The Corporation's designation of Eligible Employees for a Plan Year shall be reported to and approved by the Board in accordance with its directions.
 
An Employee must be an Eligible Employee prior to the beginning of a Plan Year in order to participate in the Plan for such Plan Year, unless otherwise determined by the Committee and approved by the Board.
 
A list of the Eligible Employees who are so designated and approved for a Plan Year shall be made by the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, the Committee, or by a duly authorized representative of the Committee, and be maintained with the Plan in the records of the Corporation.
 
 
 
 
Effective Date: January 1, 2005
 
As of the date above, and effective until this Exhibit is modified by the Committee and Board, the table below indicates the types of Compensation that are eligible for deferral at the designated percentages stated:
 
 
A Participant may defer Compensation only in 1% increments of Base Salary and/or Bonus.
 
 
 
 
 
Date: January 1, 2005
 
 
For amounts deferred by a Participant as a Short-Term Deferral, the Investment Return Rate will be the Five-Year Treasury Bond Rate as of the first business day of January of the Plan Year; provided that the Corporation may determine such other Investment Return Rate as it selects from time to time, in its discretion.
 
 
The Investment Return Rate on a Participant's Long-Term Deferral shall be the rate determined pursuant to the following:
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employer shall not be required to actually invest amounts deferred by a Participant nor the Account of any Participant in any particular form, type or amount of investment, and no Participant shall have the right to direct or in any manner control the actual investments, if any, made by the Employer or any other person for purposes of providing funds for paying the liabilities of the Employer for benefits or otherwise under the Plan; and a
 
Participant shall not have any ownership or beneficial interest in any such actual investments that may be made by the Employer. In no event shall any Participant or Beneficiary have a right to receive an amount under the Plan other than that of a general unsecured creditor of the Employer notwithstanding the foregoing provisions with respect to the measurement and determination of a Participant's Investment Return Rate on his/her Long-Term Deferral by reference to the performance of deemed investments in Thrift Plan investment options designated by the Participant.
 
 
 
 
 
Other Items To Participant Accounts
Date: January 1, 2005
 
(1) The Deferral Account and Matching Account of each Participant shall be periodically credited and increased, or debited and reduced, as the case may be, by the amount of investment return specified under Section 5.3 of the Plan.
 
(2) Except as otherwise provided herein, the Deferral Account and Matching Account shall be credited and debited with investment return and losses, if any, not less frequently than on a monthly basis after such Accounts have been adjusted for any deferrals, credits, debits, distributions and payments.
 
(3) A Participant's Accounts will be charged with cost of any deemed purchases of securities and credited with proceeds of any deemed sales of securities which may be considered as made in respect to the Investment Return Rate specified in Exhibit "C" of the Plan by reason of changes in deemed investments designated by such Participant, in substantially the same manner as would occur if such securities were being purchased or sold by a Participant under the Thrift Plan. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, allocate, charge and credit other items and amounts to such deemed purchases and sales in a manner comparable to the administration of such items under the Thrift Plan.
 
(4) All of a Participant's deferrals of Base Salary in a calendar month shall be deemed to be made as of the date it otherwise would have been paid to the Participant.
 
(5) A Participant deferral of Bonus will be credited and debited with investment return from the date of deferral.
 
(6) Until a Participant or his or her Beneficiary receives his or her entire account, the unpaid balance thereof shall be credited and debited with investment return as provided in Section 5.2 of the Plan.
 


