FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20060810112649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
[] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
.
Item 1.01
Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
On August 7, 2006, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR) with UBS AG, London Branch acting through UBS Securities LLC ("UBS"). Under the ASR, we agreed to purchase 7,500,000 shares of our common stock from UBS at a price per share of $37.52 for a total of $281.4 million. We will fund the purchase with cash on hand. The company's outstanding shares used to calculate earnings per share will be reduced by the number of shares repurchased and, effective August 10, 2006, will stand at approximately 110 million shares outstanding. This transaction is subject to, among other things, a market price adjustment provision based upon the volume weighted average market trading price (less a discount) of our common stock during the term of the ASR. If we are obligated to make an adjustment payment to UBS under the ASR, we may elect to satisfy our obligation in cash or in shares of our common stock. This ASR was entered into pursuant to our previously announced stock repurchase program.
 
.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

TULSA, Okla. -- Aug. 7, 2006 -- ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) today announced that it has repurchased 7.5 million shares of outstanding common stock under an accelerated share repurchase agreement with UBS Securities LLC at an initial price of $37.52 per share for a total of $281.4 million. The company funded the repurchase with cash on hand.
The company's outstanding shares used to calculate earnings per share have been reduced by the number of shares repurchased and now stand at approximately 110 million shares outstanding.
"By moving quickly to complete this accelerated share repurchase program, we create immediate value for our shareholders and eliminate the management distraction that would occur if we were to repurchase the shares over an extended period of time," said David Kyle, ONEOK chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We continue to believe our shares are undervalued, and, at current prices, our investment in company stock delivers an attractive return to shareholders," Kyle added.
Under the terms of the accelerated repurchase agreement, ONEOK repurchased 7.5 million shares immediately from UBS Securities. UBS Securities borrowed the shares sold to the company and will purchase shares in the open market to settle its borrowings. The company's repurchase is subject to, among other things, a financial adjustment based on the volume-weighted average price, less a discount, of the shares subsequently repurchased by UBS Securities over the course of the repurchase period. The price adjustment can be settled, at the company's option, in cash or in shares of the company's common stock.
The accelerated repurchase was completed under the company's previously approved stock repurchase plan in which the company's board of directors authorized the company to purchase 7.5 million shares. With the completion of the accelerated share repurchase plan, no shares remain available for repurchase under the amended plan. Shares of stock repurchased under this plan are held as treasury shares.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) is a diversified energy company. We are the general partner and own 45.7 percent of ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS), one of the largest publicly traded limited partnerships, which is a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the U.S. and owns one of the nation's premier natural gas liquids (NGL) systems, connecting much of the natural gas and NGL supply in the Mid-Continent with key market centers. ONEOK is among the largest natural gas distributors in the United States, serving more than 2 million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas. Our energy services operation focuses primarily on marketing natural gas and related services throughout the U.S. ONEOK is a Fortune 500 company.
For information about ONEOK, Inc. visit the Web site: www.oneok.com.
Some of the statements contained and incorporated in this news release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements relate to financial adjustments in connection with the accelerated share repurchase program and other matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements in certain circumstances. OKE-FI


