FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20080312162417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On March 11, 2008, ONEOK, Inc. ("ONEOK") entered into a Common Unit Purchase Agreement with ONEOK Partners, L.P. to purchase 5,400,000 common units of ONEOK Partners, L.P. in a private placement transaction for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $303.2 million. The foregoing description of the Common Unit Purchase Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Common Unit Purchase Agreement, a copy of which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 1.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
  
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
ONEOK issued a news release on March 11, 2008, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, announcing our agreement to purchase 5,400,000 ONEOK Partners, L.P. common units in the private placement transaction as described in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. In addition, ONEOK contributed approximately $9.4 million to ONEOK Partners, L.P. to maintain its two percent general partner interest. These transactions increase ONEOK's ownership interest in ONEOK Partners, L.P. to approximately 47.8 percent. This information is not deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not incorporated by reference into any Securities Act registration statements.
  
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
 
March 11, 2008
ONEOK, Inc.
100 West Fifth Street
Tulsa, OK 74103
Attention John Barker, Esq.:
ONEOK Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Partnership"), proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein, to issue and sell to ONEOK, Inc. (the "Investor"), an aggregate of 5,400,000 common units (the "Investor Units") representing limited partner interests in the Partnership (the "Common Units").
This is to confirm the agreement between the Partnership and the Investor concerning the purchase of the Investor Units from the Partnership by the Investor.
1. .
Representations, Warranties and Agreements
(a) The Partnership, represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the Investor that:
(i) The Partnership has been duly formed and is validly existing in good standing as a limited partnership under the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partner Act (the "Delaware Act") with full partnership power and authority necessary to enter into this Agreement.
(ii) As of the Closing Date (as defined in Section 3), the Investor Units, and the limited partner interests represented thereby, will be duly authorized by the Partnership's Third Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement dated as of September 15, 2006 (the "Partnership Agreement") and, when issued and delivered to the Investor against payment therefor in accordance with the terms hereof, will be validly issued, fully paid (to the extent required under the Partnership Agreement) and nonassessable.
(iii) The Partnership has all requisite power and authority to issue, sell and deliver the Investor Units, in accordance with and upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Partnership Agreement.
(iv) This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Partnership.
(b) The Investor represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the Partnership that:
(i) Investor is an "accredited investor," as such term is defined in Rule 501(a) of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the investment by the Investor in the Partnership is for its own account and not for the account of others, for investment purposes. The Investor Units are being acquired for its own account, for investment and with no intention of distributing or reselling such Investor Units or any portion thereof or interest therein in any transaction which would be a violation of the securities laws of the United States of America or any state or foreign country or jurisdiction.
(ii) Investor acknowledges and agrees that it has been provided, to its full satisfaction, with the opportunity to ask questions concerning the terms and conditions of an investment in the Partnership and has knowingly and voluntarily elected instead to rely solely on its own investigation.
(iii) Investor acknowledges and agrees that the Investor must bear the economic risk of this investment indefinitely, that the Investor Units purchased by the Investor hereunder may not be sold or transferred or offered for sale or transfer by it without registration under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities or Blue Sky laws or the availability of exemptions therefrom, and that the Partnership has no present intention of registering the resale of any of such Investor Units.
(iv) Investor has such knowledge, sophistication and experience in business and financial matters so as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the prospective investment in the Investor Units, and has so evaluated the merits and risks of such investment. The Investor is able to bear the economic risk of an investment in the Investor Units and, at the present time and in the foreseeable future, is able to afford a complete loss of such investment.
(v) Investor understands that the Investor Units are being offered and sold to the Investor in reliance upon specific exemptions from the registration requirements of United States federal and state securities laws and that the Partnership is relying upon the truth and accuracy of, and Investor's compliance with, the representations, warranties, agreements, acknowledgments and understandings, which are true, correct and complete, of the Investor set forth herein in order to determine the availability of such exemptions and the eligibility of the Investor to acquire the Investor Units.
(vi) Investor has a substantive pre-existing relationship with the Partnership and was directly contacted by the Partnership or its agents outside of the Partnership's concurrent public offering of 2,500,000 common units (the "Public Offering"). The Investor (i) was not identified or contacted through the marketing of the Public Offering and (ii) did not independently contact the Partnership as a result of the general solicitation by means of the prospectus for the Public Offering.
(vii) Investor has all requisite power and authority to purchase the Investor Units, in accordance with and upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
(viii) This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Investor.
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Partnership agrees to sell to the Investor, and the Investor hereby agrees to purchase from the Partnership, at a purchase price of $56.15 per common unit, 5,400,000 Investor Units.
Purchase and Sale
3. . Delivery of and payment for the Investor Units shall be made at 10 a.m., New York City time, on March 14, 2008 (such date and time of delivery and payment for the Investor Units being herein called the "Closing Date"). Delivery of the Investor Units shall be made to the Investor against payment by the Investor of the purchase price thereof to or upon the order of the Partnership by wire transfer payable in same-day funds to an account specified by the Partnership.
Delivery and Payment for the Investor Units
4. . The obligations of the Investor hereunder, as to the Investor Units, shall be subject, in its discretion, to the condition that all representations and warranties and other statements of the Partnership herein are, at and as of the Closing Date, true and correct, the condition that the Partnership shall have performed all of its obligations hereunder theretofore to be performed, and the closing of the purchase and sale of the Partnership's Common Units pursuant to the underwriting agreement, dated the date hereof, among the Partnership, the underwriters named therein and certain other parties shall have occurred.
Conditions of Investor's Obligations
5. All statements, requests, notices and agreements hereunder shall be in writing, and if to the Investor shall be delivered or sent by mail or facsimile transmission to its offices at 100 West Fifth Street, Tulsa, OK, 74103, Attention: John Barker, Esq., and if to the Partnership shall be delivered or sent by mail to the Partnership at 100 West Fifth Street, Tulsa, OK, 74103, Attention: John Barker, Esq.. Any such statements, requests, notices or agreements shall take effect upon receipt thereof.
6. This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure solely to the benefit of, the Investor and the Partnership, and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, and no other person shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement.
7. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Partnership and the Investor, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
8. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York
.
9. This Agreement may be executed by any one or more of the parties hereto in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
If the foregoing is in accordance with the Investor's understanding, please sign and return to us two (2) counterparts hereof, and upon the acceptance hereof by the Investor, this letter and such acceptance hereof shall constitute a binding agreement between the Investor and the Partnership.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
TULSA, Okla.  March 11, 2008  ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) today announced that it has purchased 5.4 million common units for a total purchase price of $303.2 million in a private placement from ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS), of which it is general partner.
Additionally, ONEOK contributed $9.4 million to maintain its 2 percent general partner interest. The company used cash on hand and short-term borrowings to fund the purchase and contribution.
This purchase increases ONEOK's ownership interest in ONEOK Partners to 47.8 percent from 45.7 percent.
The partnership also priced a public offering of 2.5 million common units at $58.10 per unit.
ONEOK Partners expects to use the net proceeds to repay the debt outstanding under its $1 billion revolving credit facility, for capital expenditures and for general partnership purposes.
UBS Investment Bank, Citi and Wachovia Securities are acting as joint book-running managers, and RBC Capital Markets and Sanders Morris Harris are acting as co-managers. A copy of the prospectus and prospectus supplement may be obtained from the underwriters as follows:
UBS Investment Bank
Attention: Prospectus Department
299 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10171
Toll free: 888-827-7275
ONEOK Purchases 5.4 Million Common Units
From ONEOK Partners in Private Placement
Page 2
Citi
Brooklyn Army Terminal
140 58
th
Street, 8
th
Floor
Brooklyn, NY 11220
718-765-6732
Wachovia Securities
Equity Syndicate Department
375 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10152
Email: equity.syndicate@wachovia.com
 
 
ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) is a diversified energy company. We are the general partner and own 45.7 percent of ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS), one of the largest publicly traded limited partnerships, which is a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the U.S. and owns one of the nation's premier natural gas liquids (NGL) systems, connecting much of the natural gas and NGL supply in the Mid-Continent with key market centers. ONEOK is among the largest natural gas distributors in the United States, serving more than 2 million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas. Our energy services operation focuses primarily on marketing natural gas and related services throughout the U.S. ONEOK is a Fortune 500 company.
Some of the statements contained and incorporated in this news release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements relate to our anticipated financial performance, management's plans and objectives for our future operations, our business prospects, the outcome of regulatory and legal proceedings, market conditions and other matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements in certain circumstances. The following discussion is intended to identify important factors that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include the items identified in the preceding paragraph, the information concerning possible or assumed future results of our operations and other statements contained or incorporated in this news release identified by words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "should," "goal," "forecast" and other words and terms of similar meaning. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. Those factors may affect our operations, markets, products, services and prices. These and other risks are described in greater detail in Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these factors. Other than as required under securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or change in circumstances, expectations or otherwise. OKE-FI


