FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20090630151251.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
[] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Oklahoma Natural Gas Seeks Rate Change
 
OKLAHOMA CITY  June 26, 2009  ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE:OKE) announced that its Oklahoma Natural Gas Company division today filed an application with the Oklahoma Corporation Commission seeking a $66.08 million increase in the utilitys base rates. The company has not had a base rate adjustment since July 2005.
 
In testimony prepared for the rate case, Oklahoma Natural Gas Company President Roger Mitchell pointed out that several expenses that now appear as separate line-item charges on customers bills would be moved into base rates under this proposal, effectively reducing the requested rate increase to a net amount of $37.6 million.
 
Mitchell explained that since the companys last increase in 2005, Oklahoma Natural has invested more than $162 million, or 27 percent, in its rate base. In addition, operating expenses, such as labor, operations and maintenance, have increased during that same period of time.
 
Mitchell also said the company has continued to operate efficiently, effectively and reliably, while providing superior service. We have been able to do this through our
commitment to maintaining, improving and expanding the extensive infrastructure that makes Oklahoma Naturals utility service accessible to Oklahomans, he said.
 
The rate application also continues the companys migration from traditional rate cases to performance-based rates under an order previously approved by the Oklahoma Corporation Commission. When fully implemented, performance-based rates will provide for a streamlined annual review of the companys performance and will result in rate adjustments that are less substantial than might be experienced when rate cases are years apart. Mitchell said the new process will also allow Oklahoma Natural Gas to share improved efficiency benefits with its customers.
 
 The company estimated that the proposed rate increase would result in an average Oklahoma Natural Gas residential customer paying approximately $5 per month more for the utilitys natural gas delivery service.
   
 
 
Oklahoma Natural Gas Seeks Rate Change
 
Page 2
 
 In accordance with Oklahoma law, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission will have 180 days to consider Oklahoma Natural Gas Companys proposed rate changes.
   
 
 Oklahoma Natural Gas Company is the states largest natural gas utility, serving more than 800,000 customers across three-quarters of the state of Oklahoma.
   
 
ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) is a diversified energy company. We are the general partner and own 45.3 percent of
ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS), one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships, which is a leader
in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the U.S. and owns one of the nations
premier natural gas liquids (NGL) systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions
with key market centers. ONEOK is among the largest natural gas distributors in the United States, serving more
than two million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas. Our energy services operation focuses primarily on
marketing natural gas and related services throughout the U.S. ONEOK is a Fortune 500 company.
 
For information about ONEOK, Inc., visit the Web site: www.oneok.com.
OKE-FV
 
 
###
 


