FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20091203154508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
[] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
             
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
ONEOK Partners to Participate in
Wells Fargo Pipeline and MLP Symposium
 
ONEOK, Inc. to participate in Wells Fargo Energy Conference
 
 TULSA, OklaDec. 1, 2009 -- ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS) will participate in the 8annual Wells Fargo Pipeline and MLP Symposium in New York City on Tuesday, Dec. 8, 2009.
   
. 
th
 
 John W. Gibson, ONEOK Partners chairman and chief executive officer, will present at 11:45 a.m. Eastern Standard Time (10:45 a.m. Central Standard Time).
   
 
 The conference will be webcast and will be accessible on ONEOK Partners Web site, www.oneokpartners.com. A replay of the webcast will be archived for 30 days. The company will also post the presentation on its Web site that morning, beginning at 8 a.m. Eastern Standard Time (7 a.m. Central Standard Time).
   
 
 In addition, ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) will participate in the inaugural Wells Fargo Energy Conference on Wednesday, Dec. 9, 2009, also in New York City, conducting a series of one-on-one meetings with members of the investment community.
   
 
ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS) is one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships, and is a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the U.S. and owns one of the nations premier natural gas liquids (NGL) systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers. Its general partner is a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE), a diversified energy company, which owns 45.1 percent of the overall partnership interest. ONEOK is one of the largest natural gas distributors in the United States, and its energy services operation focuses primarily on marketing natural gas and related services throughout the U.S.
 
ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) is a diversified energy company. We are the general partner and own 45.1 percent of ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS), one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships, which is a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the U.S. and owns one of the nations premier natural gas liquids (NGL) systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers. ONEOK is among the largest natural gas distributors in the United States, serving more than 2 million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas. Our energy services operation
 
 
focuses primarily on marketing natural gas and related services throughout the U.S. ONEOK is a Fortune 500 company.
 
For more information, visit the Web sites at or . OKE-FV OKS-FV
www.oneokpartners.com
www.oneok.com
 
###
 


