FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20091216144034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
[] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Oklahoma Natural Gas Rate Change Approved
 
 
 OKLAHOMA CITY  Dec. 14, 2009  Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, a division of
   
ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE:OKE), today received approval from the Oklahoma Corporation
Commission to change its rates.
 
 The corporation commission approved a settlement to allow an increase in base revenue
   
of $54.5 million and set Oklahoma Naturals authorized return on equity at 10.5 percent. 
Several expenses that currently appear on customers bills as separate line-item charges will be
moved into base rates, effectively reducing the rate increase to a net amount of approximately
$26 million.
   
 The settlement approved by the corporation commission was negotiated by Oklahoma
   
Natural Gas, the corporation commissions Public Utility Division, the office of the Oklahoma
Attorney General and the Oklahoma Industrial Energy Consumers organizations. 
 
 This agreement allows us to continue to invest in our system and maintain the high
   
standards of service and reliability that our customers have experienced for more than a century,
said Oklahoma Natural Gas Company President Roger Mitchell. We appreciate the
constructive manner in which all of the parties to this rate case worked together to reach this
agreement.
 
 The new rates will be reflected in customers bills beginning later this month. 
   
Customers will receive additional information about the rate changes at that time. 
 
 The company estimates that a typical residential consumer may experience an increase of
   
$3.95 per month from this rate case; however, declining natural gas costs potentially could offset
the higher charges for delivery. Low-income customers (those who qualify for federal energy
assistance) will experience no increase. 
 
 As a result of the new rates, residential customers who use 50 dekatherms or more of
   
natural gas per year will pay a fixed charge of $26.75 per month for Oklahoma Naturals
delivery service, plus the cost of the natural gas, taxes and miscellaneous fees.
 
 
(more)
Oklahoma Natural Gas Rate Change Approved
 
Page 2
 
 Customers using less than 50 dekatherms per year of natural gas will pay a fixed charge
   
of $11.20 per month and $3.7323 per dekatherm for delivery, in addition to the cost of the gas,
taxes and fees. 
 
 Oklahoma Natural Gas Company is ONEOKs largest natural gas utility, serving more
   
than 800,000 customers across three-quarters of the state.
 
 
ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) is a diversified energy company. We are the general partner and own 45.1 percent of
ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS), one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships, which is a leader
in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the U.S. and owns one of the nations
premier natural gas liquids (NGL) systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions
with key market centers. ONEOK is among the largest natural gas distributors in the United States, serving more
than two million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas. Our energy services operation focuses primarily on
marketing natural gas and related services throughout the U.S. ONEOK is a Fortune 500 company. 
 
For information about ONEOK, Inc., visit the Web site: .
www.oneok.com
OKE-FV
###
 


