FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20110623162948.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
[] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
We recently learned that the Oklahoma legislature - the waning days of the 2010 session -
in
passed last-minute legislation requiring all large, publicly traded companies that are incorporated
in Oklahoma to have classified, or staggered, boards of directors. This legislation affects
ONEOK, which is incorporated in the state of Oklahoma.
As a result, the directors of ONEOK have been classified automatically by the Oklahoma statute
into three classes with staggered terms of office, rather than all of the directors being part of a
single class and elected annually, as mandated by our certificate of incorporation. A corporation
may opt out of the requirements of the statute only after January 1, 2015, by a vote of a majority
of its outstanding shares.
In a classified board structure, directors are assigned to classes. Typically, directors of a
classified board with three classes of directors have three-year terms, with only one-third of the
directors elected annually. Consequently, directors stand for election in the same year.
all
never
As you know, in 2008 our board recommended the elimination of our then existing classified
board and the institution of the annual election of directors. This recommendation was approved
overwhelmingly by our shareholders, and our certificate of incorporation was amended
accordingly.
We continue to believe that your decision as a shareholder to have an election of directors
annual
is consistent with best practices in corporate governance. We also believe that corporations
should be able to work with their shareholders to determine which type board is appropriate.
Obviously, we are disappointed that the legislature took this action and did so in a manner that
did not afford us, as the largest publicly traded company in Oklahoma, the opportunity to
participate in the debate regarding the advisability of this legislation.
I spoke to Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin, advised her of the situation and told her of the
implications for ONEOK. Governor Fallin said she is committed to working with ONEOK and
the legislature to develop a solution to this issue.  We will keep you informed of the results of
our efforts.
We remain committed to creating value for you and ensuring that we have the appropriate
governance practices.
Sincerely,
 


