FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20110914173238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
[] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

 Exhibit 99.1
   
 
 
ONEOK and ONEOK Partners to Hold
Annual Investor Conference and Webcast
 
2012 Earnings Guidance and Three-year Forecasts to be Discussed
 
TULSA, Okla.  Sept. 12, 2011  ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) and ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS) will hold their annual investor conference on Tuesday, Sept. 27, 2011, in New York City, from 9 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (8 a.m. Central Daylight Time) to noon Eastern Daylight Time (11 a.m. Central Daylight Time.) The meeting also will be carried live on ONEOKs and ONEOK Partners websites.
 
The meeting will be hosted by John W. Gibson, chairman, president and chief executive officer of ONEOK and ONEOK Partners.
 
ONEOKs and ONEOK Partners management team will present, including:
 
Other members of ONEOKs and ONEOK Partners management teams will be available for questions.
 
At the meeting, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners will discuss 2012 earnings guidance that will be announced on Sept. 26, 2011.
 
In addition, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners will update their three-year financial forecasts. ONEOK will update its three-year net income and dividend growth forecasts, and ONEOK Partners will update its three-year EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) and distribution growth forecasts.
 
The webcast can be accessed on ONEOKs and ONEOK Partners websites at and . A replay of the webcast will be available for 30 days after the conference.
www.oneok.com
www.oneokpartners.com
 
 
 
 
 
ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) is a diversified energy company. We are the general partner and own 42.8 percent of ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS), one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships, which is a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the U.S. and owns one of the nation's premier natural gas liquids (NGL) systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers. ONEOK is among the largest natural gas distributors in the United States, serving more than 2 million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas. Our energy services operation focuses primarily on marketing natural gas and related services throughout the U.S. ONEOK is a FORTUNE 500 company and is included in Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Stock Index.
 
ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS) is one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships, and is a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the U.S. and owns one of the nations premier natural gas liquids (NGL) systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers. Its general partner is a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE), a diversified energy company, which owns 42.8 percent of the overall partnership interest. ONEOK is one of the largest natural gas distributors in the United States, and its energy services operation focuses primarily on marketing natural gas and related services throughout the U.S.
 
For more information, visit the websites at or .
www.oneok.com
www.oneokpartners.com
 
For the latest news about ONEOK and ONEOK Partners, follow us on Twitter
@ONEOKNews
and
@ONEOKPartners
.
 
###
 
 


