FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20121221165659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
ONEOK, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
100 West Fifth Street; Tulsa, OK
(Address of principal executive offices)
74103-4298
(Zip code)
(918) 588-7000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
2
3
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
4

Exhibit 99.1
ONEOK and ONEOK Partners Announce Reorganization
Norton to Lead Commercial Activities;
Martinovich to Lead Operations;
Reiners Named Chief Financial Officer;
Miers Named Chief Accounting Officer
Natural Gas Distribution Business Realigned
According to Commercial and Operating Functional Roles
TULSA, Okla. - Dec. 20, 2012 - ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) and ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS) today announced a reorganization to further enhance their commercial and operating capabilities. As a result, the following changes will become effective Jan. 1, 2013:
In addition, several individuals are being moved into new roles to develop their capabilities as part of the companys overall employee-development efforts and include:
-more-
ONEOK and ONEOK Partners Announce Reorganization
Page 2
NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION
Consistent with the overall reorganization of ONEOK and ONEOK Partners, ONEOKs natural gas distribution business - Oklahoma Natural Gas, Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service - also will have separate leaders for its operating and commercial activities, and will realign its functions to support these activities.
These changes will allow our three natural gas utilities to deliver service to our customers more effectively and efficiently; continue to operate our assets safely, reliably and environmentally responsibly; and utilize common processes and technologies across all three states to reduce costs and drive commercial and operational consistency, said Gibson.
Ultimately, these changes will improve our ability to compete more effectively by strengthening our competitive advantage, he concluded.
As a result of the natural gas distribution reorganization, Caron A. Lawhorn, 51, currently president of ONEOK Distribution Companies, will become senior vice president, commercial, natural gas distribution, reporting to Norton; and Gregory A. Phillips, 49, currently president, Oklahoma Natural Gas, will become senior vice president, operations, natural gas distribution, reporting to Martinovich. Phillips and Lawhorn will be located in Tulsa.
The following officers will have commercial responsibilities for all three natural gas distribution companies, reporting to Lawhorn, and be located in Tulsa:
 
The following officers will have operating responsibilities for all three natural gas distribution companies, reporting to Phillips, and be located in Tulsa:
The following officers will have operating responsibility for each of the companys natural gas distribution companies and also will report to Phillips:
-more-
ONEOK and ONEOK Partners Announce Reorganization
Page 3
Bradley O. Dixon, currently president, Kansas Gas Service, has elected to retire May 1, 2013, after almost 34 years with the company.
OTHER CHANGES
Other changes to further develop capabilities as part of the companys employee-development efforts include:
Curtis L. Dinan, senior vice president, natural gas, ONEOK Partners; Sheridan C. Swords, senior vice president, natural gas liquids, ONEOK Partners; and Charles M. Kelly, senior vice president, energy services; will continue to report to Norton.
In addition to Greg Phillips and Brien Brown, Wesley J. Christensen, senior vice president, ONEOK Partners operations; and Jeremy D. Wiese, vice president, environment, safety and health; will report to Martinovich.
-more-
ONEOK and ONEOK Partners Announce Reorganization
Page 4
Editors notes:
Biographical information on these individuals and photos are available by clicking on this
link
.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ONEOK, Inc. (pronounced ONE-OAK) (NYSE: OKE) is a diversified energy company. We are the general partner and own 43.4 percent of ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS), one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships, which is a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the U.S. and owns one of the nations premier natural gas liquids (NGL) systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers. ONEOK is among the largest natural gas distributors in the United States, serving more than 2 million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas. Our energy services operation focuses primarily on marketing natural gas and related services throughout the U.S. ONEOK is a FORTUNE 500 company and is included in Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Stock Index.
For more information, visit the websites at
www.oneok.com
or
www.oneokpartners.com
.
For the latest news about ONEOK and ONEOK Partners, follow us on Twitter
@ONEOKNews
and
@ONEOKPartners
.


