FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20121025171259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
ONEOK, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
100 West Fifth Street; Tulsa, OK
(Address of principal executive offices)
74103
(Zip code)
(918) 588-7000
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
[] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
2
3
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
4

Exhibit 99.1
ONEOK Declares Quarterly Dividend
TULSA, Okla. - Oct. 24, 2012 - The board of directors of ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) has declared a quarterly dividend of 33 cents per share of common stock, effective for the third quarter 2012, payable Nov. 14, 2012, to shareholders of record at the close of business Nov. 5, 2012.
The dividend remains unchanged from the previous quarter.
In September 2012, ONEOK indicated that it expects to increase its total dividend by approximately 65 to 70 percent between 2012 and 2015, including dividend increases of 3 cents per share semiannually in 2013, subject to approval by its board of directors. It also affirmed a long-term dividend payout target of 60 to 70 percent of recurring earnings.
Since January 2006, the company has increased the dividend 14 times, representing a 136-percent increase during that period.
ONEOK, Inc. (pronounced ONE-OAK) (NYSE: OKE) is a diversified energy company.  We are the general partner and own 43.4 percent of ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS), one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships, which is a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the U.S. and owns one of the nation's premier natural gas liquids (NGL) systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers. ONEOK is among the largest natural gas distributors in the United States, serving more than 2 million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas.  Our energy services operation focuses primarily on marketing natural gas and related services throughout the U.S.  ONEOK is a FORTUNE 500 company and is included in Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Stock Index.
For information about ONEOK, Inc., visit the website:
www.oneok.com
.
For the latest news about ONEOK, follow us on Twitter
@ONEOKNews
.
Some of the statements contained and incorporated in this news release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act.  The forward-looking statements relate to our anticipated financial performance (including projected levels of dividends), liquidity, management's plans and objectives for our growth projects and other future operations (including plans to construct additional natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines and processing facilities), our business prospects, the outcome of regulatory and legal proceedings, market conditions and other matters.  We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Exhibit 99.1
ONEOK Declares Quarterly Dividend
October 24, 2012
Page 2
Forward-looking statements include the items identified in the preceding paragraph, the information concerning possible or assumed future results of our operations and other statements contained or incorporated in this news release identified by words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, should, goal, forecast, guidance, could, may, potential, scheduled, and other words and terms of similar meaning.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. Those factors may affect our operations, markets, products, services and prices. These and other risks are described in greater detail in Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these factors. Other than as required under securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or change in circumstances, expectations or otherwise.
###

Exhibit 99.2
ONEOK Partners Increases Quarterly Distribution
TULSA, Okla. - Oct. 24, 2012 - The board of directors of the general partner of ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS) today increased the partnership's quarterly cash distribution to 68.5 cents per unit from 66 cents per unit, effective for the third quarter 2012, resulting in an annualized cash distribution of $2.74 per unit. The distribution is payable Nov. 14, 2012, to unitholders of record as of Nov. 5, 2012.
The completion of growth projects from our ongoing $5.7 billion to $6.6 billion capital-investment program allows us to continue to increase our distributions and deliver value to our unitholders, said John W. Gibson, chairman and chief executive officer of ONEOK Partners.
In September 2012, ONEOK Partners indicated that it expects to increase its distribution by 2.5 cents per unit per quarter for the remainder of 2012 and 2 cents per unit per quarter in 2013, and achieve an average annual distribution increase of 10 to 15 percent between 2012 and 2015, while maintaining a minimum annual coverage ratio of 1.05 times, subject to approval by the board of directors of the general partner.
ONEOK Partners has increased its distribution by approximately 71 percent since April 2006, when a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) became the sole general partner.
ONEOK Partners, L.P. (pronounced ONE-OAK) (NYSE: OKS) is one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships, and is a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the U.S. and owns one of the nation's premier natural gas liquids (NGL) systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers.  Its general partner is a wholly owned subsidiary of ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE), a diversified energy company, which owns 43.4 percent of the overall partnership interest.  ONEOK is one of the largest natural gas distributors in the United States, and its energy services operation focuses primarily on marketing natural gas and related services throughout the U.S. 
 
For more information, visit the website at
www.oneokpartners.com
.
For the latest news about ONEOK Partners, follow us on Twitter
@ONEOKPartners
.
Some of the statements contained and incorporated in this news release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, as amended. 
-more-
Exhibit 99.2
ONEOK Partners Increases Quarterly Distribution
October 24, 2012
Page 2
The forward-looking statements relate to our anticipated financial performance (including projected levels of distributions), liquidity, management's plans and objectives for our growth projects and other future operations (including plans to construct additional natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines and processing facilities), our business prospects, the outcome of regulatory and legal proceedings, market conditions and other matters.  We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include the items identified in the preceding paragraph, the information concerning possible or assumed future results of our operations and other statements contained or incorporated in this news release identified by words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, should, goal, forecast, guidance, could, may, continue, might, potential, scheduled and other words and terms of similar meaning.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. Those factors may affect our operations, markets, products, services and prices. These and other risks are described in greater detail in Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these factors. Other than as required under securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or change in circumstances, expectations or otherwise.
This news release serves as qualified notice to nominees as provided for under Treasury Regulation Sections 1.1446-4(b)(4) and (d). Please note that ONEOK Partners, L.P.'s quarterly cash distributions are treated as partnership distributions for federal income tax purposes and that 100 percent of these distributions to foreign investors are attributable to income that is effectively connected with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, all of ONEOK Partners, L.P.'s distributions to foreign investors are subject to federal income tax withholding at the highest effective tax rate for individuals or corporations, as applicable. Nominees, and not ONEOK Partners, L.P., are treated as withholding agents responsible for withholding on the distributions received by them on behalf of foreign investors.
# # #


