FILE:OKE/OKE-8K-20120217172551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
[] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

 Exhibit 99.1
   
 
ONEOK Announces Two-for-One Stock Split
 
Subject to Shareholder Approval of Additional Shares
 
TULSA, Okla.  Feb. 15, 2012  ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) today announced that its board of directors has authorized a two-for-one split of ONEOK common stock, subject to shareholder approval of a proposal to increase the number of authorized shares of ONEOK common stock to 600 million from 300 million. The proposal will be voted on at the companys 2012 annual meeting of shareholders on May 23, 2012.
 
This proposed stock split follows several years of strong ONEOK share-price performance and underscores our confidence and commitment to continue to deliver attractive shareholder returns, said John W. Gibson, ONEOK chairman and chief executive officer. We anticipate the split will also put our stock price in a more attractive trading range for investors.
 
If ONEOKs shareholders approve the proposed increase in authorized shares, the stock split will consist of distributing to shareholders one share of ONEOK common stock for each share held as of May 24, 2012, the record date for the stock split. The additional shares would be distributed on or about June 1, 2012.
 
On Feb. 13, 2012, the company had 103.9 million shares outstanding.
 
The company last split its stock in June 2001, when it distributed to shareholders one share of common stock for each share outstanding.
ONEOK, Inc. (NYSE: OKE) is a diversified energy company. We are the general partner and own 42.8 percent of ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS), one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships, which is a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the U.S. and owns one of the nation's premier natural gas liquids (NGL) systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers. ONEOK is among the largest natural gas distributors in the United States, serving more than two million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas. Our energy services operation focuses primarily on marketing natural gas and related services throughout the U.S. ONEOK is a FORTUNE 500 company and is included in Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Stock Index.
 
For more information, visit the website at .
www.oneok.com
 
For the latest news about ONEOK, follow us on Twitter
@ONEOKNews
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ONEOK Announces Two-for-One Stock Split
 
February 15, 2012
 
Some of the statements contained and incorporated in this news release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, as amended. The forward-looking statements relate to our anticipated financial performance, liquidity, managements plans and objectives for our future operations, our business prospects, the outcome of regulatory and legal proceedings, market conditions and other matters. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
Forward-looking statements include the items identified in the preceding paragraph, the information concerning possible or assumed future results of our operations and other statements contained or incorporated in this news release identified by words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, should, goal, forecast, guidance, could, may, potential, scheduled, and other words and terms of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance. An extensive list of factors that can affect future results are included in the Partnerships Annual Report on Form 10-K for the most recently completed fiscal year and its subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
 
 
###

 Exhibit 99.2
   


