FILE:SHW/SHW-8K-20040610091525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 ------------------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 10, 2004 ------------- THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY ------------------------------------------------ (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) 101 Prospect Avenue, N.W., Cleveland, Ohio 44115 ------------------------------------------------- (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (216) 566-2000 --------------
EXPLANATORY NOTE This Current Report on Form 8-K includes a "Description of Capital Stock" that will be available for incorporation by reference into filings by The Sherwin-Williams Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Item 5. Other Events and Required FD Disclosure --------------------------------------- DESCRIPTION OF CAPITAL STOCK Our authorized capital stock consists of 300,000,000 shares of common stock, $1.00 par value, and 30,000,000 shares of serial preferred stock, without par value. The following description is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the provisions of our Amended Articles of Incorporation and Regulations and by provisions of Ohio law. COMMON STOCK VOTING RIGHTS Holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters presented to a vote of our shareholders. Except as otherwise provided in our Amended Articles of Incorporation or as required by law, the holders of our serial preferred stock and the holders of our common stock shall vote together as one class on all matters. Our Amended Articles of Incorporation prevent any shareholder from cumulating votes. Except as outlined below or otherwise expressly required by statute, the vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of Sherwin-Williams is required to approve matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders. The affirmative vote (i) of the holders of shares entitling them to exercise two-thirds of the voting power of Sherwin-Williams, and (ii) of the holders of two-thirds of the shares of our common stock at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy at a meeting called for the purpose at which the holders of our common stock shall vote separately as a class, is necessary: - To approve (i) the sale, exchange, lease, transfer or other disposition by Sherwin-Williams of all, or substantially all, of our assets or business to a related corporation or an affiliate of a related corporation, (ii) the consolidation of Sherwin-Williams with or its merger into a related corporation or an affiliate of a related corporation, (iii) the merger into Sherwin-Williams of a related corporation or an affiliate of a related corporation, or (iv) a combination or majority share acquisition in which Sherwin-Williams is the acquiring corporation and our voting shares are issued or transferred to a related corporation or an affiliate of a related corporation or to shareholders of a related corporation or an affiliate of a related corporation; 2
- To approve any agreement, contract or other arrangement with a related corporation providing for any of the transactions described in the foregoing subparagraph; or - To effect any amendment of our Amended Articles of Incorporation which changes the voting provisions described above. For the purpose of the above voting requirements: (i) a "related corporation" is any corporation which, together with its affiliates and associated persons, owns of record or beneficially, directly or indirectly, more than five percent (5%) of the shares of any outstanding class of stock of Sherwin-Williams entitled to vote upon such transaction, as of the record date used to determine our shareholders entitled to vote upon the transaction, (ii) an "affiliate" of a related corporation is any individual, joint venture, trust, partnership or corporation which, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or its controlled by, or is under common control with, the related corporation, (iii) an "associated person" of a related corporation shall be any officer or director or any beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent (10%) or more of any class of equity security, of such related corporation or any of its affiliates, and (iv) the terms "combination," "majority share acquisition" and "acquiring corporation" shall have the same meaning as that contained in Section 1701.01 of the Ohio General Corporation Law or any similar provision hereafter enacted. DIVIDENDS Subject to the rights of any series of our serial preferred stock, the holders of shares of our common stock will be entitled to receive dividends on such common stock when, as and if authorized and declared by our Board of Directors. The payment of dividends on our common stock will be a business decision to be made by our Board of Directors from time to time based upon our results of operations and financial condition and such other factors as our Board of Directors considers relevant. So long as any serial preferred stock is outstanding, no dividends, except a dividend payable in common stock or other shares ranking junior to our serial preferred stock, if any, may be paid or declared or any distribution be made, nor may any common stock or any other shares ranking junior to our serial preferred stock be purchased, retired or otherwise acquired by us (except out of the proceeds of the sale of our common stock or other shares ranking junior to the serial preferred stock received by us subsequent to August 31, 1966) unless (i) all accrued and unpaid dividends on our serial preferred stock, including the full dividends for the current quarterly dividend period, shall have been declared and paid or a sum sufficient for payment thereof set apart, and (ii) there shall be no arrearages with respect to the redemption of our serial preferred stock of any series from any sinking fund provided for shares of such series in accordance with the provisions of our Amended Articles of Incorporation. Payment of dividends on our common stock may be restricted by loan agreements, indentures, and other transactions entered into by us from time to time. 3
LIQUIDATION RIGHTS Upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, each holder of shares of our common stock will be entitled to share ratably with the other holders of shares of our common stock in all assets remaining after payments to all creditors and payments required to be made in respect of any outstanding serial preferred stock (including amounts fixed as liquidating payments plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon, if any). RIGHT TO ACQUIRE SHARES We may from time to time, pursuant to authorization by our Board of Directors and without action by our shareholders, purchase or otherwise acquire any of our shares of any class or classes in such manner, upon such terms and in such amounts as our Board of Directors shall determine. Our right to acquire our shares is subject, however, to such limitation or restriction, if any, as is contained in the express terms of any class of our shares outstanding at the time of the purchase or acquisition in question. ABSENCE OF OTHER RIGHTS Holders of our common stock have no preferences, preemptive, conversion or exchange rights. Our common stock is subject to the rights of the outstanding shares of convertible participating serial preferred stock and any other outstanding shares of any series of our serial preferred stock which we may issue from time to time. TRANSFER AGENT; LISTING The Bank of New York is the transfer agent and registrar for our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "SHW". PREFERRED STOCK Our Amended Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to designate and issue, from time to time, preferred shares in one or more series. Our Board of Directors is authorized, to the extent permitted by applicable law, to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of the shares of any series so established with respect to, among other things, dividend or distribution rights, the dates of payments of dividends or distributions and the dates from which they are cumulative, liquidation price, redemption rights and price, sinking fund requirements, conversion or exchange rights and certain other terms of the preferred shares. Because the rights and preferences set by our Board of Directors for a series of preferred shares could be superior to the rights and preferences of the common stock, the issuance of such series could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock. While issuance of preferred shares could provide us with needed flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, such issuance also 4
could make it more difficult for a prospective acquiror to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting shares and could discourage an attempt to gain control of our voting shares. Such issuance also could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. At May 31, 2004, of our 30,000,000 authorized shares of serial preferred stock (i) 3,000,000 shares had been designated as cumulative redeemable serial preferred stock and (ii) 646,195 shares had been designated as convertible participating serial preferred stock. At May 31, 2004, we had outstanding (i) no shares of cumulative redeemable serial preferred stock and (ii) 246,195 shares of convertible participating serial preferred stock. All of the shares of convertible participating serial preferred stock are owned by The Sherwin-Williams Company Employee Stock Purchase and Savings Plan, acting by and through GreatBanc Trust Company. Such shares of convertible participating serial preferred stock are redeemable and convertible into common stock at the option of The Sherwin-Williams Company Employee Stock Purchase and Savings Plan based on the relative fair value of the convertible participating serial preferred stock and common stock at the time of conversion. In the event such shares are redeemed, we have the option to pay the redemption amount in cash, common stock or any combination thereof. RIGHTS PLAN Each share of our common stock is accompanied by one preferred stock purchase right. Until the rights become exercisable, they are evidenced by the certificates representing our common stock and are transferred with and only with the common stock. The rights will detach and trade separately from the common stock once they become exercisable, and we will mail separate certificates representing the rights as soon as practicable thereafter. Each right entitles the holder (except an acquiring person as defined below), once the rights become exercisable, to purchase from us one 1/100th of a share of our cumulative redeemable serial preferred stock for $110. Prior to exercise, the rights do not give the holder any dividend, voting or liquidation rights. The rights become exercisable upon the earlier of (i) the date we publicly announce that a person or group of affiliated persons has become the beneficial owner of 10% or more (15% or more in the case of a person or group who has reported or may report such ownership on a Schedule 13G under the Securities Exchange Act) of our outstanding stock ("acquiring person"), or (ii) ten business days (or a later date determined by our Board of Directors) after the commencement of a tender offer by a person or group of affiliated persons that, if completed, would result in such person or group becoming the beneficial owner of more than 10% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, if (i) a person or group becomes an acquiring person, (ii) an acquiring person engages in certain self-dealing transactions with us, or (iii) we consummate a capital restructuring that increases by more than 1% the proportionate share of the equity of us or a subsidiary of ours that is owned by an acquiring person, then each rightholder 5
(except the acquiring person) may, for $110, purchase from us shares of our common stock worth $220. If (i) we are acquired in a merger or other business combination by an acquiring person and are not the surviving entity, (ii) an acquiring person merges with us and we are the surviving corporation, but our shares of stock are changed or exchanged, or (iii) 50% or more of our assets or earning power is sold to an acquiring person, then all holders of the rights (except the acquiring person) may, for $110, purchase shares of the acquiring corporation worth $220 (or in some circumstances, to receive $220 in cash). After a person or group becomes an acquiring person, but before an acquiring person owns 50% or more of our outstanding common stock, our Board of Directors may terminate the rights by exchanging one share of our common stock for each right. Once the rights are so terminated, the sole right of the holders will be to receive that number of shares of common stock equal to the number of rights they hold. Our Board of Directors may redeem the rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $.005 per right at any time before the earlier of (i) the date we announce an acquiring person has become an acquiring person, or (ii) April 22, 2007. In each case, the purchase price for the preferred stock, the exchange ratio and the redemption price are subject to adjustment for stock splits, stock dividends and similar transactions. The terms of the rights are fully set forth in a rights agreement, dated as of April 23, 1997, by and between The Bank of New York, as successor rights agent to KeyBank National Association, and us. We filed the rights agreement with the SEC as an exhibit to our Registration Statement on Form 8-A, dated April 24, 1997. CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF OHIO LAW CONCERNING TAKEOVERS Ohio, the state of our incorporation, has enacted Ohio Revised Code Section 1701.831, a "control share acquisition" statute. The statute specifies that, unless a corporation's articles of incorporation or regulations otherwise provide, any person acquiring shares of an "issuing public corporation" in any of the following three ownership ranges must seek and obtain shareholder approval prior to the acquisition transaction that first establishes such ownership within each such range: (1) 20% or more but less than 33 1/3%, (2) 33 1/3% or more but less than 50% and (3) more than 50%. We are an "issuing public corporation" for purposes of the statute. Neither our Amended Articles of Incorporation nor our Regulations contain a provision excluding us from the application of the statute. Ohio also has enacted Ohio Revised Code Chapter 1704, the so-called "merger moratorium" statute. The statute specifies that, unless a corporation's articles of incorporation or regulations otherwise provide, an "issuing public corporation" may not engage in a "Chapter 1704 transaction" for three years following the date a person 6
acquires more than 10% of the voting power in the election of directors of the "issuing public corporation," unless the "Chapter 1704 transaction" is approved by the corporation's board of directors prior to such acquisition. A person who acquires such voting power is an "interested shareholder," and "Chapter 1704 transactions" involve a broad range of transactions, including mergers, consolidations, combinations, liquidations, recapitalizations and other transactions between an "issuing public corporation" and an "interested shareholder," if such transactions involve 5% or more of the assets or shares of the "issuing public corporation" or 10% or more of its earning power. Chapter 1704 prohibits such transactions absent approval by disinterested shareholders or the transaction meeting certain statutorily defined fair price provisions. Neither our Amended Articles of Incorporation nor our Regulations contain a provision excluding us from the application of Chapter 1704. Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits. ------------------------------------------------------------------- (c) Exhibits 3 Regulations of The Sherwin-Williams Company, as amended and restated April 28, 2004 (filed herewith). SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY June 10, 2004 By: /s/ L.E. Stellato --------------------------------------------- L.E. Stellato Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary EXHIBIT INDEX ------------- 7

EXHIBIT 3 Regulations Of The Sherwin-Williams Company (As Amended and Restated April 28, 2004) ARTICLE I SHAREHOLDERS' MEETINGS Section 1. Annual Meeting The annual meeting of shareholders for the election of Directors and the consideration of reports to be laid before such meeting shall be held at such time and place as may be designated pursuant to Section 3 of this Article I. Upon due notice, there may also be considered and acted upon at such annual meeting any matter which could properly be considered and acted upon at a special meeting, in which case and for which purpose the annual meeting shall also be considered as, and shall be, a special meeting. When the annual meeting is not held or Directors are not elected thereat, they may be elected at a special meeting called for that purpose. Section 2. Special Meetings Special meetings of shareholders may be called by the Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President, or by the Directors by action of a meeting, or by a majority of the Directors acting without a meeting, or by the person or persons who hold at least fifty percent of all shares outstanding and entitled to be voted on any proposal to be submitted at said meeting. Upon request in writing delivered either in person or by registered mail to the President or Secretary by any person or persons entitled to call a meeting of shareholders, such officer shall forthwith cause to be given, to the shareholders entitled thereto, notice of a meeting to be held not less than twenty nor more than ninety days after the receipt of such request, as such officer shall fix. If such notice is not given within forty days after the delivery or mailing of such request, the person or persons calling the meeting may fix the time of meeting and give, or cause to be given, notice in the manner hereinafter provided. Section 3. Time and Place of Meetings Any meeting of shareholders shall be held at such time and place, if any, within or without the State of Ohio as may be designated by the Directors or, in the absence of a designation by the Directors, the Chairman of the Board, if any, the President, the Secretary or any other individual entitled to give notice pursuant to Section 4 of Article I of these Regulations. The Directors may determine that the meeting shall not be held at any physical place, but instead may be held solely by means of communications equipment as authorized by Ohio law. The Directors may postpone and reschedule any previously scheduled annual or special meeting of the shareholders. 1
Section 4. Notice of Meetings Not more than sixty days nor less than seven days before the date fixed for a meeting of shareholders, whether annual or special, notice of the time, place and purposes of such meeting, and the means, if any, by which shareholders can be present and vote at the meeting through communications equipment, shall be given by or at the direction of the President, a Vice President, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. Such notice shall be given in a manner that complies with Ohio law to each shareholder of record entitled to notice of such meeting. If such notice is mailed or sent by overnight delivery, it shall be addressed to the shareholders at their respective addresses as they appear on the records of the Company, and notice shall be deemed to have been given on the day so mailed. If sent by another means of communication authorized by the shareholder, the notice shall be sent to the address furnished by the shareholder for those transmissions, and notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date sent. Notice of adjournment of a meeting need not be given if the time and place to which it is adjourned are fixed and announced at such meeting. Section 5. Quorum To constitute a quorum at any meeting of shareholders, there shall be present in person, by proxy, or by the use of communications equipment, shareholders of record entitled to exercise not less than fifty percent of the voting power of the Company in respect of any one of the purposes for which the meeting is called. The holders of a majority of the voting shares present in person or by proxy, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn the meeting from time to time. Section 6. Voting In all cases, except where otherwise by statute or the Articles or the Regulations provided, a majority of the votes cast, whether in person, by proxy or by the use of communications equipment, on any matter properly brought before such meeting will be the act of the shareholders. An abstention shall not count as a vote cast. A shareholder may revoke any proxy that is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person, by a later appointment of proxy received by the Company or by giving notice of revocation to the Company through its Secretary in a writing, in a verifiable communication, or in open meeting. Section 7. Action Without a Meeting Any action which may be authorized or taken at a meeting of the shareholders may be authorized or taken without a meeting in a writing or writings signed by all of the shareholders who would be entitled to notice of a meeting for such purpose, which writing or writings shall be filed with or entered upon the records of the Company. A telegram, cablegram, electronic mail, or an electronic or other transmission capable of authentication that appears to have been sent by a shareholder and that contains an affirmative vote or approval of that shareholder is a signed writing for the purposes of this section, and the date on which it is sent is the date that it is deemed to be signed. Section 8. Order of Business (a) The Chairman of the Board, or such officer of the Company as is designated by a majority of the total number of directors that the Company would have if there were no vacancies 2
among the Directors (such number being referred to as the "Whole Board"), will call meetings of shareholders to order and will act as presiding officer thereof. Unless otherwise determined by the Directors prior to the meeting, the presiding officer of the meeting of shareholders will also determine the order of business and have the authority in his or her sole discretion to regulate the conduct of any such meeting, including, without limitation, (i) by imposing restrictions on the persons (other than shareholders of the Company or their duly appointed proxies) who may attend any such shareholders' meeting, (ii) by ascertaining whether any shareholder or his proxy may be excluded from any meeting of shareholders based upon the presiding officer's determination that any such person has unduly disrupted or is likely to disrupt the proceedings of the meeting and (iii) by determining the circumstances in which and time at which any person may make a statement or ask questions at any meeting of shareholders. (b) At an annual meeting of the shareholders, only such business will be conducted or considered as is properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the President, a Vice President, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary in accordance with Section 4 of Article I of these Regulations, (ii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by the presiding officer or by or at the direction of a majority of the Whole Board or (iii) otherwise properly requested to be brought before the meeting by a shareholder of the Company in accordance with Section 8(c) of Article I of these Regulations. (c) For business to be properly requested by a shareholder to be brought before an annual meeting, the shareholder must (i) be a shareholder of the Company of record at the time of the giving of the notice for such annual meeting as provided for in these Regulations, (ii) be entitled to vote at such meeting and (iii) have given timely written notice of the request to the Secretary. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company not fewer than 60 nor more than 90 calendar days prior to the annual meeting; provided, however, in the event that public announcement of the date of the annual meeting is not made at least 75 calendar days prior to the date of the annual meeting and the annual meeting is held on a date more than ten calendar days before or after the first anniversary of the date on which the prior year's annual meeting was held, notice by the shareholder, to be timely, must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10th calendar day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the annual meeting. A shareholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (i) a description in reasonable detail of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the Company's books, of the shareholder proposing such business and of the beneficial owner, if other than the shareholder, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (iii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Company that are owned beneficially and of record by the shareholder proposing such business and by the beneficial owner, if other than the shareholder, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (iv) any material interest of the shareholder proposing such business and the beneficial owner, if other than the shareholder, on whose behalf the proposal is made in such business. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of these Regulations, a shareholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this section. For purposes of this section, "public announcement" means disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones 3
News Service, Associated Press, or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or publicly filed by the Company with any national securities exchange or quotation service through which the Company's stock is listed or traded, or furnished by the Company to its shareholders. Nothing in this section will be deemed to affect any rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Company's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. (d) At a special meeting of shareholders, only such business may be conducted or considered as is properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before a special meeting, business must be (i) specified in the notice of the meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the President, a Vice President, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary (or in case of their failure to give any required notice, the other persons entitled to give notice) in accordance with Section 4 of Article I of these Regulations or (ii) otherwise brought before the meeting by the presiding officer or by or at the direction of a majority of the Whole Board. (e) The determination of whether any business sought to be brought before any annual or special meeting of the shareholders is properly brought before such meeting in accordance with this section will be made by the presiding officer of such meeting. If the presiding officer determines that any business is not properly brought before such meeting, he or she will so declare to the meeting and any such business will not be conducted or considered. ARTICLE II DIRECTORS Section 1. Election, Number and Term of Office The Directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of shareholders, or if not so elected, at a special meeting of shareholders called for that purpose, and each Director shall hold office until the date fixed by these Regulations for the next succeeding annual meeting of shareholders and until his successor is elected, or until his earlier resignation, removal from office, or death. At any meeting of shareholders at which Directors are to be elected, only persons nominated as candidates shall be eligible for election. The number of Directors, which shall not be less than three, may be fixed or changed at a meeting of the shareholders called for the purpose of electing Directors at which a quorum is present, by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on such proposal. In case the shareholders at any meeting for the election of Directors shall fail to fix the number of Directors to be elected, the number elected shall be deemed to be the number of Directors so fixed. In addition to the authority of the shareholders to fix or change the number of Directors, the number of Directors so fixed may be increased or decreased by not more than two between shareholders' meetings by the Directors at a meeting or by action without a meeting, and the number of Directors as so changed shall be the number of Directors until further changed in accordance with this section; provided, that no such decrease in the number of Directors shall result in the removal of any incumbent Director or reduction in the term of any incumbent Director. In the event that the Directors increase the number of Directors, the Directors who are then in office may fill any vacancy created thereby. 4
Section 2. Meetings Regular meetings of the Directors shall be held immediately after the annual meeting of shareholders and at such other times and places as may be fixed by the Directors, and such meetings may be held without further notice. Special meetings of the Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board or by the President or by a Vice President or by the Secretary, or by not less than one-third of the Directors. Notice of the time and place of a special meeting shall be served upon or telephoned to each Director at least twenty-four hours, or sent by mail, telegram, cablegram, overnight delivery service, or any other means of communication authorized by the Directors to each Director at least forty-eight hours prior to the time of the meeting. Section 3. Quorum A majority of the Directors then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting until a quorum shall attend. Section 4. Action Without a Meeting Any action which may be authorized or taken at a meeting of the Directors may be authorized or taken without a meeting in a writing or writings signed by all the Directors, which writing or writings shall be filed with or entered upon the records of the Company. A telegram, cablegram, electronic mail, or an electronic or other transmission capable of authentication that appears to have been sent by a Director and that contains an affirmative vote or approval of that Director is a signed writing for the purposes of this section, and the date on which it is sent is the date that it is deemed to be signed. Section 5. Committees The Directors may from time to time create a committee or committees of Directors to act in the intervals between meetings of the Directors and may delegate to such committee or committees any of the authority of the Directors other than that of filling vacancies among the Directors or in any committee of the Directors. No committee shall consist of less than one Director. The Directors may appoint one or more Directors as alternate members of any such committee, who may take the place of any absent member or members of any meeting of such committee. In particular, the Directors may create and define the powers and duties of an Executive Committee. Except as above provided and except to the extent that its powers are limited by the Directors, the Executive Committee during the intervals between meetings of the Directors shall possess and may exercise, subject to the control and direction of the Directors, all of the powers of the Directors in the management and control of the business of the Company, regardless of whether such powers are specifically conferred by these Regulations. All action taken by the Executive Committee shall be reported to the Directors at their first meeting thereafter. Unless otherwise ordered by the Directors, a majority of the members of any committee appointed by the Directors pursuant to this section shall constitute a quorum at any meeting thereof, and the act of a majority of the members present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee. Action may be taken by any such committee without a meeting by a writing or writings signed by all of its members in a manner consistent with Section 4 of this Article II. Any such committee shall prescribe its own rules for calling and holding meetings and its method 5
of procedure, subject to any rules prescribed by the Directors, and shall keep a written record of all action taken by it. Unless otherwise restricted by action of the Board of Directors, any committee of Directors created pursuant to this section may further delegate any or all of its authority and duties to a subcommittee of one or more of its members. Section 6. Nominations Of Directors; Election (a) Except as may be otherwise provided in the express terms of any outstanding serial preferred stock, only persons who are nominated in accordance with this section will be eligible for election at a meeting of shareholders to be members of the Board of Directors of the Company. (b) Nominations of persons for election as directors of the Company may be made only at a meeting of shareholders (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof or (ii) by any shareholder who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving of the notice provided for in this section, who is entitled to vote for the election of directors at such meeting, and who complies with the procedures set forth in this section. All nominations by shareholders must be made to the Secretary in proper written form and must be timely. (c) To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company, in the case of a special meeting of the shareholders, at the time the meeting call is made in accordance with Section 2 of Article I, or, in the case of an annual meeting, not fewer than 60 nor more than 90 calendar days prior to such annual meeting; provided, however, in the event that public announcement of the date of the annual meeting is not made at least 75 calendar days prior to the date of the annual meeting and the annual meeting is held on a date more than ten calendar days before or after the first anniversary of the date on which the prior year's annual meeting was held, notice by the shareholder, to be timely, must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10th calendar day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the annual meeting. (d) To be in proper written form, such shareholder's notice must set forth or include: (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Company's books, of the shareholder giving the notice and of the beneficial owner, if other than the shareholder, on whose behalf the nomination is made; (ii) a representation that the shareholder giving the notice is a holder of record of stock of the Company entitled to vote at such annual meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (iii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Company that are owned beneficially and of record by the shareholder giving the notice and by the beneficial owner, if other than the shareholder, on whose behalf the nomination is made; (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between or among any of (A) the shareholder giving the notice, (B) the beneficial owner on whose behalf the notice is given, (C) each nominee and (D) any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the shareholder giving the notice; (v) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by the shareholder giving the notice as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy 6
rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had the nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board of Directors; and (vi) the signed consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Company if so elected. (e) The presiding officer of any annual meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine that a nomination was not made in accordance with this section, and if the presiding officer should so determine, the presiding officer shall so declare to the meeting, and the defective nomination will be disregarded. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, a shareholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this section. ARTICLE III OFFICERS Section 1. Officers All of the officers and assistant officers shall be elected by the Directors. The Company may have a Chairman of the Board (who shall be a Director) and shall have a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Company may also have one or more Vice Presidents and such other officers and assistant officers as the Directors may deem necessary. The Company's Chairman of the Board need not be an officer or employee. Section 2. Authority and Duties of Officers The officers of the Company shall have such authority and shall perform such duties as are customarily incident to their respective offices, or as may be specified from time to time by the Directors regardless of whether such authority and duties are customarily incident to such office. ARTICLE IV INDEMNIFICATION, INSURANCE AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY Section 1. Indemnification (a) The Company shall indemnify, to the full extent then permitted by law, any Director or officer or former Director or officer of the Company who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that the individual is or was a Director or an officer, employee or agent of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, trustee, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise. The Company shall pay, to the full extent then required by law, expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by a Director in defending any such action, suit or proceeding as they are incurred, in advance of the final disposition thereof. (b) To the full extent then permitted by law, the Company may indemnify employees, agents and other persons and may pay expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by any employee, agent or other person in defending any action, suit or proceeding as such expenses are incurred, in advance of the final disposition thereof. 7
(c) The indemnification and payment of expenses provided by this section shall not be exclusive of, and shall be in addition to, any other rights granted to any person seeking indemnification under any law, the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, any agreement, vote of shareholders or of disinterested Directors, or otherwise, both as to action in official capacities and as to action in another capacity while he or she is a Director or an officer, employee or agent of the Company, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a Director, trustee, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors, and administrators of such a person. Section 2. Liability Insurance (a) The Company may purchase and maintain insurance or furnish similar protection, including but not limited to trust funds, letters of credit or self-insurance, on behalf of or for any person who is or was a Director, officer, employee or designated agent of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or designated agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article or of Chapter 1701 of the Ohio Revised Code. Insurance may be purchased from or maintained with a person in whom the Company has a financial interest. (b) The Company is expressly authorized to enter into any indemnification or insurance agreements with or on behalf of any person who is or was a Director, officer, employee or designated agent of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or designated agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, in accordance with the terms of this Article IV or the laws of the State of Ohio. Such agreements may include, but are not limited to agreements providing for indemnification or the advancement of expenses under Section 1 of this Article IV, agreements providing for insurance, indemnification or the advancement of expenses by way of self-insurance, whether or not funded through the use of a trust, escrow agreement, letter of credit, etc., in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, and agreements providing for insurance or indemnification through the commercial insurance market. Section 3. Limitation of Liability (a) No person shall be found to have violated his duties to the Company as a Director of the Company in any action brought against such Director (including actions involving or affecting any of the following: (i) a change or potential change in control of the Company; (ii) a termination or potential termination of his service to the Company as a Director; or (iii) his service in any other position or relationship with the Company), unless it is proved by clear and convincing evidence that the Director has not acted in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believes to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, or with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this paragraph (a) limits relief available under Section 1701.60 of the Ohio Revised Code. (b) In performing his duties, a Director shall be entitled to rely on information, opinions, reports, or statements, including financial statements and other financial data, that are prepared or presented by: (i) one or more Directors, officers or employees of the Company whom the Director reasonably believes are reliable and competent in the matters prepared or presented; (ii) counsel, public accountants, or other persons as to matters that the Director reasonably believes are within the person's professional or expert competence; or (iii) a committee of the Directors upon which he does not serve, duly established in accordance with the provisions of these Regulations, as to matters within its designated authority, which committee the Director reasonably believes to merit confidence. 8
(c) A Director in determining what he reasonably believes to be in the best interests of the Company shall consider the interests of the Company's shareholders and, in his discretion, may consider (i) the interests of the Company's employees, suppliers, creditors and customers; (ii) the economy of the state and nation; (iii) community and societal considerations; and (iv) the long-term as well as short-term interests of the Company and its shareholders, including the possibility that these interests may be best served by the continued independence of the Company. (d) A Director shall be liable in damages for any action he takes or fails to take as a Director only if it is proved by clear and convincing evidence in a court of competent jurisdiction that his action or failure to act involved an act or omission undertaken with deliberate intent to cause injury to the Company or undertaken with reckless disregard for the best interests of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this paragraph (d) affects the liability of Directors under Section 1701.95 of the Ohio Revised Code or limits relief available under Section 1701.60 of the Ohio Revised Code. ARTICLE V MISCELLANEOUS Section 1. Transfer and Registration of Certificates The Directors shall have authority to make such rules and regulations as they deem expedient concerning the issuance, transfer and registration of certificates for shares and the shares represented thereby and may appoint transfer agents and registrars thereof. Section 2. Substituted Certificates Any person claiming a certificate for shares to have been lost, stolen or destroyed shall make an affidavit or affirmation of that fact, shall give the Company and its registrar or registrars and its transfer agent or agents a bond of indemnity satisfactory to the Directors or to the Executive Committee or to the President or a Vice President and the Secretary or the Treasurer, whereupon a new certificate may be executed and delivered of the same tenor and for the same number of shares as the one alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed. Section 3. Articles to Govern In case any provision of these Regulations shall be inconsistent with the Articles, the Articles shall govern. Section 4. Amendments These Regulations may be amended at a meeting of the shareholders by the affirmative vote of the shareholders of record entitled to exercise a majority of the voting power on such proposal, or by the unanimous written consent of the shareholders of record entitled to vote on such proposal. If an amendment is adopted by written consent without a meeting of the shareholders, the Secretary shall mail a copy of such amendment to each shareholder of record who would have been entitled to vote thereon. 9


