FILE:SHW/SHW-8K-20050207103457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
February 2, 2005
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(216) 566-2000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On February 2, 2005, the Board of Directors of The Sherwin-Williams Company approved the following actions of the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors with regard to the compensation of the executive officers who were named in the Summary Compensation Table of Sherwin-Williams' 2004 Proxy Statement and who are expected to be named in the Summary Compensation Table of Sherwin-Williams' 2005 Proxy Statement:
     . The Compensation Committee approved increases to the base salaries of the named executive officers, effective upon each officer's 2005 annual review date. The base salaries of the named executive officers for 2005 are as follows: C.M. Connor, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ($1,078,870); J.M. Scaminace, President and Chief Operating Officer ($738,192); S.P. Hennessy, Senior Vice President  Finance and Chief Financial Officer ($434,460); J.G. Morikis, President, Paint Stores Group ($409,604); and L.E. Stellato, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary ($369,720).
2005 Base Salary Increases
     . The Compensation Committee approved annual cash bonus awards earned during 2004 and paid in 2005 for the named executive officers under The Sherwin-Williams Company Management Incentive Plan. The Management Incentive Plan is part of The Sherwin-Williams Company Management Compensation Program. The bonus awards were earned based upon the achievement of performance goals established early in 2004, which were reviewed and approved by the Compensation Committee. The amounts of the bonus awards are as follows: Mr. Connor ($1,153,000); Mr. Scaminace ($789,000); Mr. Hennessy ($393,000); Mr. Morikis ($378,000); and Mr. Stellato ($338,000).
Annual Incentive Compensation Earned in 2004
     . The Compensation Committee approved the following minimum, target and maximum cash bonus award levels, as a percent of salary, for the named executive officers for 2005 under the Management Incentive Plan based upon each such executive officer achieving 75%, 100% and 125%, respectively, of their individual performance goals. The Management Compensation Program was amended to increase the target and maximum bonus awards available under the Management Incentive Plan beginning for bonuses earned for 2005 for certain named executive officers. A copy of the amended Management Compensation Program is filed as Exhibit 10(c) to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Annual Incentive Compensation to Be Earned in 2005
Table of Contents
     The Compensation Committee also approved a threshold company earnings goal and individual performance goals for the named executive officers under the Management Incentive Plan for 2005. Individual performance goals for Messrs. Connor and Scaminace relate to sales, return on equity, diluted earnings per share, free cash flow, working capital and return on sales. Mr. Scaminace has an additional individual performance goal related to the achievement of financial results of acquired businesses. Individual performance goals for Mr. Hennessy relate to sales, return on equity, diluted earnings per share, free cash flow, working capital and budget achievement. Mr. Morikis has individual performance goals related to sales, profit, return on sales, return on assets, financial results of acquired businesses and new store openings. Mr. Stellato's individual performance goals relate to sales, profit, budget achievement and various legal matters.
     . The Compensation Committee approved the grant of the following number of shares of restricted stock to the named executive officers under The Sherwin-Williams Company 2003 Stock Plan: Mr. Connor (53,750); Mr. Scaminace (25,000); Mr. Hennessy (13,750); Mr. Morikis (11,500); and Mr. Stellato (6,250). The shares of restricted stock vest over a four-year period ending on February 1, 2009. The number of shares of restricted stock that will actually vest at the end of the four-year period will range from 0% to 100% based upon Sherwin-Williams' achievement of specified performance goals relating to average return on average equity and cumulative earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization over the four-year period.
Grant of Restricted Stock
     In the event of a change of control of Sherwin-Williams, any shares of restricted stock outstanding shall no longer be subject to any substantial risk of forfeiture, vesting requirement or other restrictions. On the date the executive officer ceases to be continuously employed in any participating position at any time during the restriction period, the executive officer shall lose all rights to the restricted stock except as otherwise provided. In the event of death or disability of the executive officer, the executive officer (or his estate) shall be entitled to a certificate for the full number of shares of restricted stock granted. In the event the executive officer's employment terminates as a result of normal retirement age, all rights of the executive officer to the shares of restricted stock shall continue. In the event the executive officer's employment terminates as a result of early retirement, the Compensation Committee shall have the right to cancel the executive officer's rights to the shares of restricted stock, continue such rights in full, or prorate the number of shares of restricted stock granted.
     The grant of restricted stock was made pursuant to the terms of the 2003 Stock Plan and the terms of a Restricted Stock Grant document, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10(a) to this Report and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the 2003 Stock Plan previously was filed as Exhibit 10(a) to Sherwin-Williams' Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2002 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     . Sherwin-Williams will provide additional information regarding the compensation paid to the named executive officers for the 2004 fiscal year in Sherwin-Williams' proxy statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which is expected to be filed with the SEC in March 2005.
Other Compensation Information
Table of Contents
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 10(a) THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY 2003 STOCK PLAN FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK GRANT *************** Number of Shares: ____________________ Date of Grant: ______________, 20__ Date of Vesting: ______________, 20__ THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT, in accordance with and subject to all terms, provisions and conditions of The Sherwin-Williams Company 2003 Stock Plan ("Plan"), The Sherwin-Williams Company ("Company") does hereby grant unto: ("Grantee")an aggregate of _________ shares of common stock, $1.00 par value, of the Company ("Common Stock") subject, however, to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth ("Restricted Stock"): 1. The Company shall cause a stock certificate ("Restricted Certificate") for the number of shares of Common Stock noted above to be issued in the name of Grantee. The Restricted Certificate shall contain a legend in the form attached as Exhibit A. Upon issuance of the Restricted Certificate, ownership of the shares of Common Stock shall immediately transfer to Grantee and, except for the substantial risk of forfeiture and the restrictions on transfer expressly set forth herein, Grantee shall be entitled to all voting, dividend and other ownership rights as may apply to the Common Stock generally. 2. Provided Grantee is continuously employed from the Date of Grant through the Date of Vesting, inclusive, ("Restriction Period") with the Company, or a Subsidiary (as defined in the Plan) thereof, in Grantee's present position or in such other position as the Committee (as defined in the Plan) may determine entitles Grantee to retain the rights under this Restricted Stock Grant (such positions being hereinafter referred to as a "Participating Position"), Grantee shall be entitled to have a stock certificate ("Unrestricted Certificate") issued in Grantee's name and delivered to Grantee representing a percentage (as determined below) of the Restricted Stock granted hereunder without restrictions, other than such restrictions as may apply to the Common Stock generally or as may otherwise be required by applicable federal or state law. Notwithstanding anything contained in the immediately preceding sentence, the Committee may direct that no Unrestricted Certificate or an Unrestricted Certificate representing a reduced number of shares of Common Stock shall be issued and delivered to Grantee if the amount equal to the sum of the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) per share of Common Stock at the end of the Restriction Period plus the dividends per share of Common Stock paid during the Restriction Period less the Fair Market Value per
share of Common Stock on the Date of Grant ("Total Return") is negative. Except as otherwise set forth in the Plan, the Committee shall have no authority to increase the number of shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder. The issuance and delivery of the Unrestricted Certificate, if any, shall be made after such time as the Committee has obtained the information, made the decisions, and completed the calculations necessary to determine such number of unrestricted shares of Common Stock or whether the Total Return was negative. At such time, the Restricted Certificate shall be cancelled and the Unrestricted Certificate, if any, shall be issued and delivered to Grantee. (a) The percentage of the number of shares of Restricted Stock which Grantee shall be entitled to receive without restrictions, other than such restrictions as may apply to the Common Stock generally or as may otherwise by required by applicable federal or state law, shall be based upon (i) the Company achieving a specified Average Return on Average Equity during the four year period ending on the Date of Vesting ("Measurement Period"), and (ii) the Company's Cumulative Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) during the Measurement Period, as determined in accordance with the table set forth on Exhibit B. (b) Exhibit C, attached hereto, sets forth the manner in which the Committee will determine the Average Return on Average Equity and the Cumulative Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization during the Measurement Period. 3. On the date Grantee ceases to be continuously employed in any Participating Position(s) at any time during the Restriction Period, Grantee shall lose all rights to the Restricted Stock, except as otherwise provided below: (a) In the event of the death of Grantee during the Restriction Period, the Company shall deliver to the beneficiary of Grantee, or, if no beneficiary is named, the estate of Grantee, an Unrestricted Certificate issued in the name of such beneficiary or the estate for the full number of shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder. (b) In the event Grantee is terminated by the Company as a result of disability due to sickness or bodily injury during the Restriction Period, the Company shall deliver to Grantee an Unrestricted Certificate issued in Grantee's name for the full number of shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder. (c) In the event Grantee's employment terminates as a result of normal retirement age as defined under the applicable retirement plan of the Company or a Subsidiary, all rights of Grantee under this Grant shall continue as if Grantee had continued employment in a Participating Position. The determination of the percentage of the number of shares of Restricted Stock which Grantee is entitled to receive without restriction in accordance with Paragraph 2 will be made as if Grantee had remained employed in a Participating Position throughout the Restriction Period. (d) In the event Grantee's employment terminates as a result of early retirement (retirement after the earliest voluntary retirement age but before normal retirement age as provided for in the applicable retirement plan of the Company or a Subsidiary 2
or retirement at an earlier age with the consent of the Board of Directors), the Committee shall have the right to cancel Grantee's rights hereunder, continue Grantee's rights hereunder in full, or prorate the number of shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder for the portion of the Restriction Period completed as of the date of such retirement or as the Committee may otherwise deem appropriate. In the event Grantee's rights hereunder continue in full or the number of shares of Restricted Stock is prorated, determination of the percentage of the number of shares of Restricted Stock which Grantee is entitled to receive without restriction in accordance with Paragraph 2 will be made as if Grantee had remained employed in a Participating Position throughout the Restriction Period. 4. In the event Grantee is transferred from a Participating Position, the Committee shall have the right to cancel Grantee's rights hereunder, continue Grantee's rights hereunder in full, or prorate the number of shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder for the portion of the Restriction Period completed as of the date of such transfer or as the Committee may otherwise deem appropriate. In the event Grantee's rights hereunder continue in full or the number of shares of Restricted Stock is prorated, determination of the percentage of the number of shares of Restricted Stock which Grantee is entitled to receive without restriction in accordance with Paragraph 2 will be made as if Grantee had remained employed in a Participating Position throughout the Restriction Period. 5. In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company, as defined below, the Company shall deliver to Grantee an Unrestricted Certificate issued in Grantee's name for the full number of the shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder. For purposes of this Paragraph 5, a "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if: (a) Any person (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, hereinafter the "Exchange Act") who or that, together with all "Affiliates" and "Associates" (as such terms are defined in Rule 12b-2, as in effect on April 23, 1997, of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act) of such person, is the Beneficial Owner (as defined below) of ten percent (10%) or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding, except: (i) the Company; (ii) any of the Company's subsidiaries in which a majority of the voting power of the equity securities or equity interests of such subsidiary is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company; (iii) any employee benefit or stock ownership plan of the Company or any trustee or fiduciary with respect to such a plan acting in such capacity; or (iv) any such person who has reported or may, pursuant to Rule 13d-1(b)(1) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, report such ownership (but only as long as such person is the Beneficial Owner of less than fifteen percent (15%) of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding) on Schedule 13G (or any comparable or successor report) under the Exchange Act. 3
Notwithstanding the foregoing: (A) no person shall become the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above) solely as the result of an acquisition of Common Stock by the Company that, by reducing the number of shares outstanding, increases the proportionate number of shares beneficially owned by such person to ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above) of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding; provided, however, that if a person becomes the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above) of the shares of Common Stock solely by reason of purchases of Common Stock by the Company and shall, after such purchases by the Company, become the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of Common Stock which has the effect of increasing such person's percentage ownership of the then-outstanding shares of Common Stock by any means whatsoever, then such person shall be deemed to have triggered a Change of Control; and (B) if the Board of Directors determines that a person who would otherwise be the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above) of the shares of Common Stock has become such inadvertently (including, without limitation, because (1) such person was unaware that it Beneficially Owned ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above) of the shares of Common Stock or (2) such person was aware of the extent of such beneficial ownership but such person acquired beneficial ownership of such shares of Common Stock without the intention to change or influence the control of the Company) and such person divests itself as promptly as practicable of a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock so that such person would no longer be the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above), then such person shall not be deemed to be, or have been, the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above) of the shares of Common Stock, and no Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred. (b) During any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of the Company and any new director (other than a director initially elected or nominated as a director as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies by or on behalf of such director) whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof. (c) There shall be consummated any consolidation, merger or other combination of the Company with any other person or entity other than: 4
(i) a consolidation, merger or other combination which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than fifty-one percent (51%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such consolidation, merger or other combination; or (ii) a consolidation, merger or other combination effected to implement a recapitalization and/or reorganization of the Company (or similar transaction), or any other consolidation, merger or other combination of the Company, which results in no person, together with all Affiliates and Associates of such person, becoming the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (a)(iv) above) of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities. (d) There shall be consummated any sale, lease, assignment, exchange, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of fifty percent (50%) or more of the assets or earning power of the Company (including, without limitation, any such sale, lease, assignment, exchange, transfer or other disposition effected to implement a recapitalization and/or reorganization of the Company (or similar transaction)) which results in any person, together with all Affiliates and Associates of such person, owning a proportionate share of such assets or earning power greater than the proportionate share of the voting power of the Company that such person, together with all Affiliates and Associates of such person, owned immediately prior to any such sale, lease, assignment, exchange, transfer or other disposition. (e) The shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company. For purposes of this Paragraph 5, a person shall be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities: (x) which such person or any of such person's Affiliates or Associates is considered to be a "beneficial owner" under Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect on April 23, 1997; (y) which such person or any of such person's Affiliates or Associates, directly or indirectly, has or shares the right to acquire, hold, vote (except pursuant to a revocable proxy as described in the proviso to this definition) or dispose of such securities (whether any such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing), or upon the exercise of conversation rights, exchange rights, rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a person shall not be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such person or any of such person's 5
Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange; or (z) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other person (or any Affiliate or Associate of such other person) with which such person (or any of such person's Affiliates or Associates) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing), with respect to acquiring, holding, voting (except as described in the proviso to this definition) or disposing of any securities of the Company; provided, however, that a person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, nor to beneficially own, any security if such person has the right to vote such security pursuant to an agreement, arrangement or understanding which (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy given to such person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D (or any comparable or successor report) under the Exchange Act; and provided, further, that nothing in this Paragraph 5 shall cause a person engaged in business as an underwriter or securities to be the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any securities acquired through such person's participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty (40) days after the date of such acquisition or such later date as the Board of Directors may determine in any specific case. 6. Notwithstanding anything in this Restricted Stock Grant to the contrary, in the event that Grantee commits an act during the Restriction Period, which act is determined by the Committee to be materially harmful to the best interest of the Company, all rights of Grantee in the Restricted Stock as provided herein and in the Plan shall terminate. 7. During the Restriction Period, Grantee shall not be permitted to sell, transfer, pledge or assign the Restricted Stock. The Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall be deemed to be subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture within the meaning of Section 83 of the Internal Revenue Code. 8. Nothing contained in this Restricted Stock Grant shall limit whatever right the Company or a Subsidiary might otherwise have to terminate the employment of Grantee, and the terms of this Restricted Stock Grant shall not be affected in any manner by any employment or other agreement between Grantee and the Company or any Subsidiary. 9. This Restricted Stock Grant is not transferable by Grantee otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. 10. This Restricted Stock Grant shall not be valid if such would involve a violation of any applicable state law, and the Company hereby agrees to make reasonable efforts to comply with any applicable state law. 11. This Restricted Stock Grant shall not be valid if it would require registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or under any similar federal securities law then in effect, of the shares of Common Stock or other securities to be delivered hereunder, and such registration shall not then be effective. The Company shall register the shares of Common 6
Stock or other securities covered by this Restricted Stock Grant under any such law if (a) such registration shall be necessary to effect this Restricted Stock Grant and the Board of Directors shall not determine that such registration would result in undue expense or undue hardship to the Company, or (b) the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, shall determine that such registration is desirable to effect the purposes of this Restricted Stock Grant and would not result in undue expense or undue hardship to the Company. 12. The Committee shall administer this Restricted Stock Grant in accordance with, and Grantee shall be bound by, the terms of the Plan and the terms of this Restricted Stock Grant. This Restricted Stock Grant shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. The interpretation of any terms and conditions contained in this Restricted Stock Grant and all determinations to be made hereunder shall be made by the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, and all such interpretations, determinations and decisions shall be final and binding upon Grantee. 7
Exhibit A LEGEND ON RESTRICTED SHARE CERTIFICATE The rights of any shareholder to sell, transfer, pledge, assign or receive the share(s) of Common Stock of the Company represented by this certificate are reserved and/or restricted by the terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Grant, dated the _____ day of ___________, 20__, issued by the Company to the shareholder(s) named on the face of this certificate pursuant to the Company's 2003 Stock Plan ("Plan") and the terms and conditions of such Plan. 8
Exhibit B 9
Exhibit C Average Return on Average Equity 1. Add the beginning and ending shareholder's equity (less those items relating to extraordinary events or which result in a distortion of comparative results) with respect to each fiscal year of the Company beginning with or immediately prior to each year of the Measurement Period and divide by two to arrive at the Average Equity for each such year. 2. Divide the Net Income as determined for each such year by the Average Equity of the Company for each such year to arrive at the Return on Average Equity. Net Income equals Reported Net Income (less those items relating to extraordinary events or which result in a distortion of comparative results). 3. Add the Return on Average Equity for each year of the Measurement Period as determined above and divide by the number of years in the Measurement Period to arrive at the Average Return on Average Equity during the Measurement Period. Example Assuming a four year Measurement Period. 10
Cumulative Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization Add the Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) (adjusted for those items relating to extraordinary events or which results in a distortion of comparative results) with respect to each fiscal year of the Company beginning with or immediately prior to each year of the Measurement Period. 11

EXHIBIT 10(b) [Name] [Company] [Address1] [Address2] [CityStZip] Dear [FirstName]: I am pleased to advise you that the Board of Directors approved management's recommendation to award a stock option grant to you, as one of our Key Employees. This award is in recognition of the importance of your position with the Company and the contribution we anticipate you will make to the improvement in our Company's long-term performance. Your options were awarded at the average stock price on the date of the grant. Since stock options are intended to be a long-term incentive award, your options vest over a three-year period. You were awarded _____ stock options at a grant price of $____. AS YOU KNOW, THERE ARE IMPORTANT SEC COMPLIANCE ISSUES RELATED TO THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 THAT MUST BE CONSIDERED AT THE TIME YOU CHOOSE TO EXERCISE YOUR STOCK OPTIONS. PLEASE CONTACT __________ AT __________@SHERWIN.COM (__________), OR __________ AT __________@SHERWIN.COM (__________), OR __________ AT __________@SHERWIN.COM (__________) TO HELP ENSURE YOU MEET ALL COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS BEFORE EXERCISING YOUR OPTIONS. In order to provide you full access to advanced stock option technology, we will deliver your stock option program to you primarily by Internet and e-mail. All plan documents are available on the ___ website (__________). We believe you will be pleased with the tools you have at your disposal for managing this important part of your compensation structure. Your personal efforts to improve sales and profits while reducing expenses are critical to our success. These activities will make us a stronger Company. We expect your help in achieving these goals and together, we will position the Company for continued success. Sincerely,

EXHIBIT 10(c) SHERWIN-WILLIAMS MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION PROGRAM PURPOSE The purpose of the Sherwin-Williams Management Compensation Program is to establish and maintain a performance and achievement oriented management environment throughout the Company that results in improved profits and/or creativity. The primary emphasis is to develop Sherwin-Williams as a superior company that can achieve and sustain above average earnings growth and a company dedicated to excellence in management, products, services and product development. With this in mind, the Program is designed so that participating managers will earn higher than average total compensation for doing an above average job and have the opportunity to accumulate a significant estate if the Company's long-range earnings goals are achieved. TOTAL COMPENSATION Sherwin-Williams' base salary structure is so designed that a participant may receive a level of salary compensation which approximates the average of that paid an equivalent position in the same or similar industries, as reported by several outside executive compensation services. Those who participate in the Incentive Plan may be awarded additional compensation in the form of cash and deferred compensation for performance results that meet or exceed specified pre-determined goals. Total compensation, therefore, may exceed that of comparable executive positions in the outside marketplace. I. BASE SALARY Sherwin-Williams' overall salary structure is reviewed annually to insure that it remains competitive. Positions are classified within the salary structure on the basis of assigned responsibilities. The mid-point salary of a grade assigned to a position is the salary level which approximates the average salary paid an equivalent position in the same or similar industries. Data are obtained from the latest survey information available from various executive compensation data sources. Where salary information is not available for a particular position, the salary grade assigned is consistent with other positions having similar responsibilities in the Company and in similar industries. - 1 -
Individual salaries are reviewed at least annually, but it must be understood that salaries may not increase each year. Decisions relating to salary increases are based on guidelines provided by management. II. S-W MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN The second element of the compensation program is the Sherwin-Williams Management Incentive Plan ("Plan"). This incentive Plan is designed to permit the total compensation of a key manager to reflect: A. The performance of a particular unit (profit center or department), and B. The results of individual efforts as related to established goals. Goals must require well above average performance and results should be difficult to attain and have a significant impact on the improvement of the organizational unit and/or the Company. ELIGIBILITY TO PARTICIPATE IN SWMIP Eligibility to participate in the Plan is limited to Corporate, Group and Division key managers who are responsible for profit decisions and major policy direction. To remain a participant, one must remain an active employee in a participating job through the end of the Plan year (December 31). Individuals employed in a participating job by October 1 of the Plan year may become eligible to participate in that Plan year upon approval of the Chief Executive Officer and/or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Division participants are selected and recommended by the Division President, Group President and Chief Operating Officer on an individual basis after careful consideration and evaluation and must be approved by the Chief Executive Officer. The potential of the position to contribute to the achievement of overall Company goals is the major criterion for being approved as a Plan participant. Participation at the Corporate level is limited to Officers and Major Department Heads. Certain limits are placed on the number of managers from any one Division that may be included in the Plan as shown below. The numbers shown in parentheses represent additional participants who may be included in the Plan if warranted by the responsibilities of the position. - 2 -
INCENTIVE AWARDS The Plan is designed to provide an award for improvement over prior year results. To be eligible for any award under the Plan, a participant, Division or Department must attain at least 75% of the improvement portion of the major profit or program goal. For example: Prior Year Actual PBT: $13.0MM Plan Year PBT: $14.0MM Planned Improvement: $ 1.0MM The threshold for earning an award is an improvement of $0.750MM (75% of $1MM) or an actual PBT for the Plan Year of 13.75MM. WHERE AN APPROVED PROFIT GOAL SHOWS NO IMPROVEMENT, OR IS CONSIDERED TO SHOW INSUFFICIENT IMPROVEMENT, THE PARTICIPANT, DIVISION OR DEPARTMENT MUST ATTAIN THE GOAL TO EARN ANY AWARD. THE ACHIEVEMENT OF THIS GOAL MAY RESULT IN AN INCENTIVE AWARD AT THE MINIMUM PAYOUT LEVEL FOR THE APPROPRIATE INCENTIVE GROUP (AS HEREAFTER DESCRIBED), PROVIDED THAT THE COMPANY ACHIEVES ITS OVERALL GOALS. GENERALLY, NO ADDITIONAL INCENTIVE WILL BE AWARDED UNLESS THE RESULTS EXCEED THE PRIOR YEAR'S ACTUAL RESULTS. - 3 -
As an example: Prior Year Actual PBT: $13.0MM Plan Year Goal PBT: $12.7MM Incentive payouts may be as follows, assuming the Company achieves its overall goals: Participants are assigned to an Incentive Group (Exhibit A) which determines the potential percentage of base salary that may be awarded. Assignment to an Incentive Group is made by the Chief Executive Officer. Individual awards are based on the overall percentage of goal achievement as described in the Performance Results Evaluation section which follows and as approved by the Chief Executive Officer and/or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. PERFORMANCE RESULTS EVALUATION Assuming the overall Company earnings performance is at least 75% of the planned improvement goal, individual performance is evaluated at the end of the year in terms of achievement of goals set by the participant and approved by management at the beginning of the year. If the Company does not meet the minimum earnings improvement, funds may not be available for awards, although special awards may be made under exceptional circumstances. The process for individual goal achievement evaluation is outlined in the following steps. In all cases, recommended awards must be approved by the Chief Executive Officer and/or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. PROCEDURES FOR EVALUATING GOAL ACHIEVEMENT 1. The goals are pre-determined and agreed upon by the participant and immediate supervisor, reviewed by the Division President, Group President and/or Chief Operating Officer or Corporate Department Head and submitted to the Chief Executive Officer for approval. Strong emphasis is placed on improvement over the previous fiscal year; particularly where the goals relate to profits, profit margins and return on assets employed. - 4 -
2. At the close of each fiscal year, participants review their own performance by recording achievements as related to pre-determined goals. 3. The supervisor then determines a performance rating percentage for each quantitative goal by comparing the goal against supervisory appraisal of the achievement of that goal. For all Division participants, a performance rating percentage for each special goal and each strategic goal will be determined by the Division President, Group President and Chief Operating Officer. For Corporate participants, these performance rating percentages will be determined by the Chief Executive Officer. A percentage achievement rating is scaled as follows: --- 125% --- Outstanding Performance --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- 100% --- Planned Results --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- 75% --- Minimum Acceptable --- --- Performance --- --- --- --- --- --- 0% ---------------------------------- a. A "100% Objective Achieved" rating for any particular goal indicates that the participant met that goal right on target. b. A rating of 125% is the maximum rating for any particular goal, indicating outstanding achievement of that goal. c. A rating below 75% indicates less than acceptable performance, and since no credit is given for that particular goal, the performance rating is 0%. d. Because certain factors cannot be accurately measured in terms of a percentage, a direct arithmetic relationship may not necessarily exist between the established goal, the appraisal of results and the performance rating percentage of that goal. e. Incumbents in covered positions for less than the Plan year being measured may be awarded incentive compensation on a pro-rata basis (i.e., participant for 6 months out of 12 months would result in 50% of the normal award.) - 5 -
4. The participant's appraisal and the supervisor's rating of each goal, together with any additional comments by the supervisor, form the basis for overall performance. The overall performance rating is then reviewed for approval by subsequent levels of management. The overall evaluation may not exceed 125%. 5. The Chief Executive Officer reviews the recommended incentive awards in terms of individual performance, the performance of the Division or Department and the overall performance of the Company, and, as appropriate, reviews his recommendations with the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. 6. After the recommendations and approvals are final, a review session is held with each participant, at which time the supervisor is to review the incentive award with the participant. 7. Fair, impartial judgement is in reality the major factor in the final determination, and not arithmetic results. 8. The incentive award is determined as follows: a. The overall performance percentage is related to the applicable Incentive Group to determine the incentive award percentage. b. The participant's salary base is multiplied by the incentive award percentage to determine the total dollar incentive award. Incentive Plan award computations are based upon the total salary of the individual for the previous twelve months or for the time in the approved position if less than a full year. For example: 100% Performance of Goals Group II = 45% Salary = $140,000 Incentive Award = $140,000 X 0.45 = $63,000 SPECIAL INCENTIVE AWARDS In addition to the previously described incentive awards, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors may, from time to time, declare a special incentive award ("Special Incentive Award") with respect to a particular Plan year. The performance objectives and any other criteria, restrictions or procedures associated with eligibility to receive any such Special Incentive Award shall be determined by the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, and the material terms thereof shall be attached hereto and incorporated herein as an exhibit to the Plan. All applicable information regarding eligibility for or other aspects of any Special Incentive Awards shall also be communicated in writing to all Plan participants on a timely basis. - 6 -
GENERAL Each employee should understand that the employment relationship with Sherwin-Williams, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, is an at-will relationship and, as such, may be terminated at any time by either party. Nothing in any application form, employee handbook, summary, booklet, policy manual or other communication is intended to be an express or implied contract of employment, or guarantee of employment for a specific period of time between an employee and the Company, a subsidiary or affiliate, unless clearly so stated and signed by both parties. INCOME DEFERRAL The Company has a deferred compensation plan to provide greater flexibility in the method of payment of incentive awards. The payment of an incentive award may be deferred, in whole or in part, under the Company's Key Management Deferred Compensation Plan if that is an employee's election prior to the start of the Plan year. Otherwise, payment will be made in cash. February 2, 2005 - 7 -
EXHIBIT A INCENTIVE AWARDS AS A PERCENTAGE OF BASE SALARY - 8 -


