FILE:SHW/SHW-8K-20050601095155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
May 27, 2005
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(216) 566-2000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     Joseph M. Scaminace, President and Chief Operating Officer of The Sherwin-Williams Company, notified Sherwin-Williams of his intention to resign from such positions and as a member of the Board of Directors of Sherwin-Williams effective the close of business on Tuesday, May 31, 2005. Mr. Scaminace has accepted the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of OM Group, Inc. Effective with this change, Christopher M. Connor, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will assume the day-to-day management of the operating divisions of Sherwin-Williams and is expected to add the title of President upon approval of the Board of Directors. A copy of the press release of Sherwin-Williams announcing the resignation is attached as Exhibit 99.
Item 9.01 .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed with this Report.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99
     CLEVELAND , OHIO, May 31, 2005  The Sherwin-Williams Company (NYSE: SHW) announced today that Joseph M. Scaminace, President and Chief Operating Officer, is leaving the Company and resigning from the Board of Directors effective the close of business on Tuesday, May 31, 2005. Mr. Scaminace has accepted the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of another New York Stock Exchange listed company.
     Commenting on the news, Christopher M. Connor, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We appreciate Joe's many contributions to our Company over his 22 year career at Sherwin-Williams. Our customers, employees and shareholders have benefited from his good work and leadership. We wish him well with his new endeavor."
     Effective with this change, Mr. Connor will assume the day-to-day management of the operating divisions of the Company and is expected to add the title of President upon approval of the Board of Directors.
     The Sherwin-Williams Company, founded in 1866, is one of the world's leading companies engaged in the manufacture, distribution and sale of coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers.


