FILE:SHW/SHW-8K-20050726094943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 20, 2005
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(216) 566-2000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
.
Credit Agreement
     On July 20, 2005, The Sherwin-Williams Company entered into an Amendment and Restatement Agreement (the "Amendment ") with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent; Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent; and the Lenders party thereto. The Amendment amends and restates the Five-Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of July 19, 2004, among Sherwin-Williams; the Lenders party thereto; JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent; Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent; and Bank of America, N.A., National City Bank, and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Co-Documentation Agents. The primary purpose of the Amendment is to increase the amount of the credit facility from $650 million to $910 million. A copy of the Amendment is filed as Exhibit 4(a) to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Indemnity Agreement
     The information set forth below in Item 5.02 regarding Sherwin-Williams' entry into an Indemnity Agreement with David F. Hodnik is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 1.01.
.
Deferred Compensation Plans
     On July 20, 2005, the Board of Directors of Sherwin-Williams approved the following actions of the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors in connection with the requirements of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA"): (1) amended the Deferred Compensation Savings and Pension Equalization Plan ("DCSPEP"), Revised Key Management Deferred Compensation Plan ("KMDCP") and Director Deferred Fee Plan ("DDFP") to freeze each of the plans and preserve participants' earned and vested benefits under the frozen respective plans in which they participate under the law in effect prior to the AJCA; and (2) established the following new nonqualified plans: (i) 2005 Deferred Compensation Savings and Pension Equalization Plan; (ii) 2005 Key Management Deferred Compensation Plan; and (iii) 2005 Director Deferred Fee Plan to satisfy the requirements and limitations of the AJCA. The terms of the new plans are substantially similar to the frozen plans except to the extent prior provisions were prohibited or impracticable as a consequence of the ACJA. Since the AJCA applies to deferred compensation that is earned or vested after December 31, 2004, no further deferrals or contributions were permitted to the DSCPEP, KMDCP or DDFP after December 31, 2004. Commencing in 2005, all deferrals and contributions were made under the new plans. Copies of these plans are filed as Exhibits to this Report and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02 .
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
     On July 20, 2005, the Board of Directors of Sherwin-Williams elected David F. Hodnik to serve on its Board of Directors. In addition, Mr. Hodnik was appointed to the Audit Committee of
Table of Contents
the Board of Directors. The election of Mr. Hodnik brings the number of directors to 11. The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Hodnik is independent under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and Sherwin-Williams' Director Independence Standards. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Hodnik and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Hodnik was selected as a director, and there are no related party transactions between Sherwin-Williams or any of its subsidiaries and Mr. Hodnik that are reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. A copy of the press release of Sherwin-Williams announcing Mr. Hodnik's election is attached as Exhibit 99.
     In connection with Mr. Hodnik's election to the Board of Directors, Sherwin-Williams entered into an Indemnity Agreement with him on July 20, 2005. The Form of the Indemnity Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10(a) to Sherwin-Williams' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Indemnity Agreement supplements the indemnification coverage afforded by Sherwin-Williams' Regulations and Ohio law.
     On July 20, 2005, the Board of Directors also appointed Christopher M. Connor, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to the additional position of President. Mr. Connor had assumed the day-to-day management of the operating divisions of Sherwin-Williams on May 31, 2005 due to the resignation of Joseph M. Scaminace, former President and Chief Operating Officer of Sherwin-Williams.
Item 9.01 .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed with this Report.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 4(a)
 
     AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT AGREEMENT dated as of July 20, 2005 (this "Amendment and Restatement") in respect of the FIVE-YEAR COMPETITIVE ADVANCE AND REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY AGREEMENT (the "Credit Agreement") dated as of July 19, 2004, among THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY (the "Borrower"); the LENDERS party thereto; and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. (formerly known as JPMorgan Chase Bank), as Administrative Agent.
          The Borrower has requested that the Credit Agreement be amended and restated as set forth in Section 1 below and the parties hereto are willing so to amend and restate the Credit Agreement (as so amended and restated, the "Restated Credit Agreement"). Each capitalized term used but not defined herein has the meaning assigned thereto in the Credit Agreement.
          In consideration of the premises and the agreements, provisions and covenants herein contained, the parties hereto hereby agree, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, as follows:
          SECTION 1. Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment and Restatement as provided in Section 3 below, the Credit Agreement shall be amended and restated with the following revisions (and otherwise in the form in which it exists on the date hereof):
Amendment and Restatement.
     (a) The preamble to the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by (i) deleting the amount "$650,000,000" in the fifth line and substituting therefor "$910,000,000".
     (b) The definition of the term "Commitment" in Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the amount "$650,000,000" and substituting therefor "$910,000,000".
     (c) (i) Section 3.04(a)(i) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the date "December 31, 2003", and substituting therefor "December 31, 2004"; (ii) Section 3.04(a)(ii) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the date "March 31, 2004", and substituting therefor "March 31, 2005"; and (iii) Section 3.04(b) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the date "December 31, 2003", and substituting therefor "December 31, 2004".
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change.
     (d) . From and after the Restatement Effective Date (as defined below), all references in the Credit Agreement to "the date hereof", "the date of this Agreement" or other words or phrases of similar import, shall continue to refer to July 19, 2004, except that the reference in Section 3.04(b) to "the date of this Agreement" shall be deemed to be a reference to the Restatement Effective Date (as defined below).
Effective Date
 
     (e) Schedule 2.01 to the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted and Schedule 2.01 hereto is inserted in its place.
Schedule.
          SECTION 2. The Borrower represents and warrants as of the Restatement Effective Date to the Lenders that:
Representations and Warranties.
     (a) All representations and warranties set forth in the Restated Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects with the same effect as if made on the Restatement Effective Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date (in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct as of such earlier date).
     (b) Immediately before and after giving effect to this Amendment and Restatement, no Default has occurred and is continuing.
          SECTION 3. This Amendment and Restatement and the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans under the Restated Credit Agreement shall become effective on the date (the "") on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02 of the Credit Agreement), which date is July 20, 2005:
Conditions to Effectiveness.
Restatement Effective Date
     (a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from (i) Lenders constituting the Required Lenders and (ii) each Lender whose Commitment is being increased as a result of this Amendment and Restatement either (A) a counterpart of this Amendment and Restatement signed on behalf of such party or (B) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Amendment and Restatement.
     (b) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Restatement Effective Date) of L.E. Stellato, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1 to the Credit Agreement, covering such other matters relating to the Borrower or this Amendment and Restatement as the Required Lenders shall reasonably request. The Borrower hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinion.
     (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of the Borrower, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Borrower or this Amendment and Restatement, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
     (d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Restatement Effective Date and signed by the President, a Vice President or a
 
Financial Officer of the Borrower, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 2 of this Amendment and Restatement.
     (e) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable hereunder and under the fee letters of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, National Association dated as of June 24, 2005, and June 27, 2005, respectively (collectively, the ""), in each case on or prior to the Restatement Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder.
Fee Letters
     (f) On the Restatement Effective Date, no Loans shall be outstanding and the Borrower shall have paid all facility fees and utilization fees accrued under the Credit Agreement through the day immediately preceding such date.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Restatement Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Amendment and Restatement and the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to Section 9.02) at or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on July 20, 2005.
          SECTION 4. (a) Except as specifically stated herein, the provisions of the Credit Agreement are and shall remain in full force and effect. As used therein, the terms "Credit Agreement", "herein", "hereunder", "hereinafter", "hereto", "hereof" and words of similar import shall, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to the Restated Credit Agreement.
Agreements.
          (b) The parties agree that no fees shall be payable to Lenders in respect of this Amendment and Restatement other than as set forth in this Amendment and Restatement and in the Fee Letters.
          SECTION 5.
THIS AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Applicable Law.
          SECTION 6. This Amendment and Restatement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original but all of which when taken together shall constitute but one contract. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment and Restatement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment and Restatement. This Amendment and Restatement shall constitute a "Loan Document" for all purposes of the Restated Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
Counterparts.
          SECTION 7. The Borrower agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by it in connection with this Amendment and Restatement, including the reasonable fees, charges
Expenses.
 
and disbursements of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Administrative Agent.
          SECTION 8. The headings of this Amendment and Restatement are for purposes of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment and Restatement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2.01
The Sherwin-Williams Company $910,000,000 Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement

 
EXHIBIT 10(b)
     This 2004-2 Amendment to The Sherwin-Williams Company Deferred Compensation Savings and Pension Equalization Plan (the "Plan") is made effective as of December 31, 2004.
     WHEREAS, The Sherwin-Williams Company (the "Company") established the Plan effective July 24, 2002;
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Article 9 of the Plan, the Company retains the right to amend the Plan at any time in whole or in part; and
     WHEREAS, the Company wishes to amend the Plan to freeze all further participation and contributions to the Plan;
     , the Plan is hereby amended effective December 31, 2004 to add the following Addendum 2004-2:
NOW, THEREFORE
     Pursuant to Article XII of the Plan, notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, for all periods on and after December 31, 2004: (1) the obligation of the Company to make any future contributions shall cease; (2) no further deferrals, whether contributed by the Company or Participants, shall be permitted; and (3) no persons who were not Participants on December 31, 2004 shall be eligible to become Participants. In addition, no "material modification", as such term is defined in The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 or any regulations or authority issued thereunder (the "Act"), shall be made to the Plan.
     , pursuant to the action of its Board of Directors at a meeting held the 20 day of July, 2005, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed effective December 31, 2004 by its duly authorized officer.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
th

 
EXHIBIT 10(c)
     This 2004-1 Amendment to The Sherwin-Williams Company Revised Key Management Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is made effective as of December 31, 2004.
     WHEREAS, The Sherwin-Williams Company (the "Company") established the Plan effective July 24, 2002;
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Article 10 of the Plan, the Company retains the right to amend the Plan at any time in whole or in part; and
     WHEREAS, the Company wishes to amend the Plan to freeze all further participation and contributions to the Plan;
     , the Plan is hereby amended effective December 31, 2004 to add the following Addendum 2004-1:
NOW, THEREFORE
     Pursuant to Article 10 of the Plan, notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, for all periods on and after December 31, 2004: (1) the obligation of the Company to make any future contributions shall cease; (2) no further deferrals, whether contributed by the Company or Participants, shall be permitted; and (3) no persons who were not Participants on December 31, 2004 shall be eligible to become Participants. In addition, no "material modification", as such term is defined in The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 or any regulations or authority issued thereunder (the "Act"), shall be made to the Plan.
     , pursuant to the action of its Board of Directors at a meeting held the 20 day of July, 2005, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed effective December 31, 2004 by its duly authorized officer.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
th

 
EXHIBIT 10(d)
     This 2004-1 Amendment to The Sherwin-Williams Company Director Deferred Fee Plan (1997 Amendment and Restatement) (the "Plan") is made effective as of December 31, 2004.
     WHEREAS, The Sherwin-Williams Company (the "Company") established the Plan effective February 20, 1991;
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Article 13 of the Plan, the Board of Directors of the Company retains the right to amend the Plan at any time in whole or in part; and
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company wishes to amend the Plan to freeze all further participation and contributions to the Plan;
     , the Plan is hereby amended effective December 31, 2004 to add the following Addendum 2004-1:
NOW, THEREFORE
     Pursuant to Article XII of the Plan, notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, for all periods on and after December 31, 2004: (1) the obligation of the Company to make any future contributions shall cease; (2) no further deferrals, whether contributed by the Company or Participants, shall be permitted; and (3) no persons who were not Participants on December 31, 2004 shall be eligible to become Participants. In addition, no "material modification", as such term is defined in The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 or any regulations or authority issued thereunder (the "Act"), shall be made to the Plan.
     , pursuant to the action of its Board of Directors at a meeting held the 20 day of July, 2005, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed effective December 31, 2004 by its duly authorized officer.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
th

 
EXHIBIT 10(e)
          The Sherwin-Williams Company, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), hereby establishes this 2005 Deferred Compensation Savings and Pension Equalization Plan (the "Plan"), effective January 1, 2005, for the purpose of attracting high quality executives and promoting in its key executives increased efficiency and an interest in the successful operation of the Company. This Plan is intended to supplement benefits provided under the Company's qualified plans for a select group of management or highly compensated employees by accepting contributions which may not be placed in the qualified plans because of limitations imposed by one or more of Sections 401(a)(17), 401(k), 401(m), 402(g), 403(b), 408(k) or 415or any other limitation on contributions or benefits in the Internal Revenue Code.
 
and is either: (i) an Executive Officer (as such term is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), (ii) the President or General Manager of an operating division of the Company, or (iii) a management employee of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates who would otherwise be an Eligible Executive but has been specifically designated by the Company as an Excluded Executive. In no event shall any individual who has at any time been an Excluded Executive be or be considered to be an Eligible Executive for purposes of eligibility to participate in, make deferrals to or accrue a benefit under the Plan.
 
 
deferral under this Plan. The Qualified PIP or Qualified SEPIP Makeup Contribution shall equal the total Company contributions that would have been made to Qualified PIP or Qualified SEPIP, as applicable, on behalf of the Participant without regard to deferrals made under this Plan and absent any Statutory Limitations. The Qualified PIP or Qualified SEPIP Makeup Contribution shall be reduced by the amount of Company contributions actually credited to the Participant under Qualified PIP or Qualified SEPIP for such Plan Year
 
earnings as provided in Article 3 through the Valuation Date. The benefits shall be paid in a single lump sum on the Settlement Date following Retirement unless the Participant makes a timely election to have the benefits paid in substantially level annual installments over a specified period of not more than fifteen (15) years. Payments shall begin on the Settlement Date following Retirement. An Election Form to change the form of benefit payout shall be considered timely if submitted during a period prescribed by the Administrator, which period cannot be less than twelve (12) months prior to the intended effective date of such change. Any change in the distribution date must defer payment for at least an additional five (5) years.
 
In the event of Disability, deferral elections shall cease and for purposes of calculating benefits under the Plan, Disability shall be treated as a Retirement entitling the Participant to receive the benefits provided under Article 4.1 of the Plan. The Disability benefits shall commence on the Settlement Date following Termination of Employment by reason of Disability.
Upon a finding that the Participant (or, after the Participant's death, a Beneficiary) has suffered a Financial Hardship, the Administrator may in its sole discretion, accelerate distributions of benefits, in whole or in part, or approve reduction or cessation of current deferrals under the Plan in the amount reasonably necessary to alleviate such Financial Hardship. In no event shall any amounts, or the present value thereof, accrued pursuant to Section 2.6 hereof, be available to a Financial Hardship Distribution.
The Company may, at any time, amend or terminate the Plan, except that no such amendment or termination may reduce a Participant's Account balance. If the Company terminates the Plan, the date of such termination shall be treated as a Termination of Employment for the purpose of calculating Plan benefits and the Company shall pay to each Participant the benefits such Participant would be entitled to receive under Article 4 of the Plan except that such termination benefits shall be paid in a single lump sum payable as soon as practicable following the date on which termination of the Plan occurs.
 
 
In the event of a Change of Control, the amounts to which Participants are entitled under this Plan shall be immediately distributed in a lump sum cash payment to Participants. For purposes of this Plan, a Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Notwithstanding the foregoing: (1) no person shall become the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above) solely as the result of an acquisition of Common Stock by the Company that, by reducing the number of shares outstanding, increases the proportionate number of shares beneficially owned by such person to ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above) of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding; provided, however, that if a person becomes the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above) of the shares of Common Stock solely by reason of purchases of Common Stock by the Company and shall, after such purchases by the Company, become the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of Common Stock which has the effect of increasing such person's percentage ownership of the then-outstanding shares of Common Stock by any means whatsoever, then such person shall be deemed to have triggered a Change of Control; and (2) if the Board of Directors determines that a person who would otherwise be the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above) of the shares of Common Stock has become such inadvertently (including, without limitation, because (i) such person was unaware that it Beneficially Owned ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above) of the shares of Common Stock or (ii) such person was aware of the extent of such beneficial ownership but such person acquired beneficial ownership of such shares of Common Stock without the intention to change or influence the control of the Company) and such person divests itself as promptly as practicable of a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock so that such person would no longer be the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above), then such person shall not be deemed to be, or have been, the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above) of the shares of Common Stock, and no Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred.
 
respect to directors or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies by or on behalf of such director) whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof.
For purposes of this Article 12, a person (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, hereinafter "Exchange Act") shall be deemed the "" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities:
Beneficial Owner
 
provided, however, that a person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, nor to beneficially own, any security if such person has the right to vote such security pursuant to an agreement, arrangement or understanding which (I) arises solely from a revocable proxy given to such person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, and (II) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D (or any comparable or successor report) under the Exchange Act; and provided, further, that nothing in this Section 1(b) shall cause a person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities to be the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any securities acquired through such person's participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty (40) days after the date of such acquisition or such later date as the Board of Directors may determine in any specific case.
 
 
 
                         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Plan to be executed this 20th day of July, 2005.

 
EXHIBIT 10(f)
     The Sherwin-Williams Company, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), hereby establishes this 2005 Key Management Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), effective as of January 1, 2005, for the purpose of attracting high quality executives and promoting in its key executives increased efficiency and an interest in the successful operation of the Company. The Plan is intended to offer a select group of management or highly compensated employees the ability to defer compensation in excess of compensation available to be deferred under other qualified and nonqualified plans sponsored by the Company.
          1.1 shall mean the account or accounts established for a particular Participant pursuant to Article 3 of the Plan.
Account
          1.2 shall mean the person or persons appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company to administer the Plan pursuant to Article 12 of the Plan.
Administrator
          1.3 shall mean the Participant's annual base salary excluding incentive and discretionary bonuses and other non-regular forms of compensation, after reductions for Social Security and Medicare taxes and contributions to or deferrals under any pension, deferred compensation or other benefit plans sponsored by the Company.
Base Salary
          1.4 shall mean the person(s) or entity designated as such in accordance with Article 11 of the Plan.
Beneficiary
          1.5 shall mean amounts paid to the Participant by the Company annually in the form of a discretionary or incentive compensation or any other bonus designated by the Administrator after reductions for contributions to or deferrals under any pension, deferred compensation or benefit plans sponsored by the Company.
Bonus
          1.6 shall mean The Sherwin-Williams Company.
Company
          1.7 shall mean the notional gains and losses credited on the Participant's Account balance which are based on the Participant's choice among the investment alternatives made available by the Administrator pursuant to Article 3 of the Plan.
Crediting Rate
          1.8 shall have the same definition given to such term under The Sherwin-Williams Company Salaried Employees' Pension Investment Plan, as amended from time to time.
Disability
          1.9 shall mean an employee of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates eligible to participate in The Sherwin-Williams Company Management Incentive Plan, or such other management employee, as may be designated by the Administrator to be eligible to participate in the Plan.
Eligible Executive
          1.10 shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
          1.11 shall mean the Participant's or the Participant's dependent's (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Internal Revenue Code) sudden and unexpected illness or accident, the
Financial Hardship
 
Participant's sudden and unexpected property casualty loss, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant, which is not covered by insurance and may not be relieved by cessation of Plan deferrals or by the liquidation of the Participant's assets provided that such liquidation would not cause a severe Financial Hardship, and which is determined to qualify as a Financial Hardship by the Administrator. Cash needs arising from foreseeable events such as the purchase of a residence or education expenses for children shall not, alone, be considered a Financial Hardship.
          1.12 shall mean an Eligible Executive who has elected to participate and has completed a Participant Election Form pursuant to Article 2 of the Plan.
Participant
          1.13 shall mean the agreement in a form acceptable to the Administrator, to make a deferral submitted by the Participant to the Administrator on a timely basis pursuant to Article 2 of the Plan. The Participant Election Form may take the form of an electronic communication followed by appropriate written confirmation from the Administrator according to specifications established by the Administrator.
Participant Election Form
          1.14 shall mean the calendar year, except that the first Plan Year shall begin on the effective date of the Plan and end December 31, 2002.
Plan Year
          1.15 shall mean Termination of Employment on or after the Retirement Eligibility Date.
Retirement
          1.16 shall mean the date on which the Participant attains age fifty-five (55).
Retirement Eligibility Date
          1.17 shall mean the distribution elected by the Participant pursuant to Article 7 of the Plan.
Scheduled Withdrawal
          1.18 shall mean the date by which a lump sum payment shall be made or the date by which installment payments shall commence. Unless otherwise specified, the Settlement Date shall be no later than ninety (90) days following the occurrence of the event triggering the payout unless the Participant elects to defer the Settlement date, at the time and in a form specified by the Administrator, until the last day of January of the Plan Year following the year in which the event triggering the payout occurs. In the case of death, the event triggering payout shall be deemed to occur upon the date the Administrator is provided with the documentation reasonably necessary to establish the fact of the Participant's death. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Participant who is a Specified Employee, the Settlement Date shall be a date which is no less than six (6) months from the Participant's Termination of Employment.
Settlement Date
          1.19 shall mean a Participant who is a "Key Employee" as defined pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 416.
Specified Employee
          1.20 shall mean any statutory or regulatory limitations imposed by one or more of Sections 401(a)(17), 401(k), 401(m), 402(g), 403(b), 408(k) or 415 or any other limitation on contributions or benefits in the Internal Revenue Code The impact of such limits on the Participant for purposes of this Plan shall be determined by the Administrator based upon reasonable estimates and shall be final and binding as of the date the Company Contribution is credited to the Participant's Account. No subsequent adjustments shall be made to increase Company Contribution under this Plan as a result of any adjustments ultimately required under the Qualified Plans due to actual employee contributions or other factors.
Statutory Limitations
 
          1.21 shall mean the date of the cessation of the Participant's employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever, whether voluntary or involuntary, including as a result of the Participant's Retirement or death, or to the extent provided in Article 6 of the Plan, Disability.
Termination of Employment
          1.22 shall mean the date through which earnings are credited and shall, if a business day, be the date on which the payout or other event triggering the valuation occurs; or if not a business day, the next succeeding business day.
Valuation Date
     2.1 . Each Plan Year an Eligible Executive may elect to defer any whole percentage up to one hundred percent (100%) of Base Salary and/or Bonus earned by the Eligible Executive during the Plan Year. The Administrator may further limit the minimum or maximum amount deferred by any Participant or group of Participants, or waive the foregoing limits for any Participant or group of Participants, for any reason. If a Participant ceases to meet the eligibility requirements, the Participant shall continue as an inactive Participant in the Plan but shall no longer be eligible to make further deferrals under the Plan.
Elective Deferral
     2.2 . The Company shall make a Company Make-Up Contribution to this Plan on behalf of the Participant for each Plan Year in which the Participant elects deferrals pursuant to Section 2.1 above in an amount equal to difference between the amount of all contributions the Participant would have received under all qualified retirement plans and The Sherwin-Williams Company Deferred Compensation Savings and Pension Equalization Plan if the Participant had not elected to defer Base Salary and/or Bonus pursuant hereto without regard to any Statutory Limitations and without regard to the applicable dollar limit under Section 402(g)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, reduced by the amount of contributions actually credited to the Participant under the qualified retirement plans and The Sherwin-Williams Company Deferred Compensation Plan for such Plan Year.
Company Make-Up Contribution
     2.3 . In order to make a deferral, an Eligible Executive must submit a Participant Election Form to the Administrator during the enrollment period established by the Administrator prior to the beginning of the period to which the Base Salary or Bonus relates or is determined, except that: (i) with respect to the first Plan Year, the Participant shall submit a Participant Election Form within thirty (30) days of adoption of the Plan by the Board of Directors of the Company; and (ii) with respect to elections for the deferral of Bonuses, the Participant shall be permitted to submit a Participant Election Form to the Administrator during the applicable enrollment period which must occur no later than six (6) months prior to the end of the period to which the Bonus relates. Any such election shall be effective as of the first business day of the calendar month immediately following the end of such thirty (30) day election period. The Administrator may establish a special enrollment period, not to exceed thirty (30) days, for Eligible Executives hired during a Plan Year to allow deferrals of Base Salary or Bonus earned during the balance of such Plan Year after such enrollment period. The Participant shall be required to submit a new Participant Election Form each year in order to make additional deferrals in such subsequent Plan Years. . An Election Form to change deferral elections shall be considered timely if submitted during a period prescribed by the Administrator and, in the case of a change to the timing or form of distribution, such Election Form must be submitted at least twelve (12) months prior to the intended effective date of such change, and the change in the distribution date must defer payment for at least an additional five (5) years. The election to defer Base Salary or Bonus shall be irrevocable except as provided in Article 6 in the event of Disability or Article 7 in the case of a Financial Hardship.
Participant Election Form
 
     3.1 . Solely for recordkeeping purposes, separate Accounts shall be maintained for each Participant. One Retirement Account and Scheduled Withdrawal Accounts, in a number appropriate to the Participant's elections to make Scheduled Withdrawals, shall be maintained for the Participant and credited with the Participant's deferrals directed by the Participant to each Account at the time such amounts would otherwise have been paid to the Participant. Accounts shall be deemed to be credited with notional gains or losses as provided in Section 3.2 from the date amounts are credited to the Account through the Valuation Date. Amounts credited to a Participant's Account shall be fully vested at all times.
Participant Accounts
     3.2 . The Crediting Rate on amounts in a Participant's Account shall be based on the Participant's choice among the investment alternatives made available from time to time by the Administrator. The Administrator shall establish a procedure by which a Participant may elect to have the Crediting Rate based on one or more investment alternatives and by which the Participant may change investment elections at least quarterly. The Participant's Account balance shall reflect the investments selected by the Participant. If an investment selected by a Participant sustains a loss, the Participant's Account shall be reduced to reflect such loss. The Participant's choice among investments shall be solely for purposes of calculation of the Crediting Rate. If the Participant fails to elect an investment alternative the Crediting Rate shall be based on the investment alternative selected for this purpose by the Administrator. The Company shall have no obligation to set aside or invest funds as directed by the Participant and, if the Company elects to invest funds as directed by the Participant, the Participant shall have no more right to such investments than any other unsecured general creditor of the Company. During payout, the Participant's Account shall continue to be credited at the Crediting Rate selected by the Participant from among the investment alternatives or rates made available by the Administrator for such purpose. Installment payments shall be recalculated annually by dividing the account balance by the number of payments remaining without regard to anticipated earnings or in any other reasonable manner as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator.
Crediting Rate
     3.3 . The Administrator shall provide each Participant with statements at least annually setting forth the Participant's Account balance as of the end of each Plan Year.
Statement of Accounts
     4.1 . In the event of the Participant's Retirement, the Participant shall be entitled to receive an amount equal to the total balance of the Participant's Accounts credited with notional earnings as provided in Article 3 through the Valuation Date. The benefits shall be paid in a single lump sum on the Settlement Date following Retirement unless the Participant makes a timely election to have the benefits paid in substantially level annual installments over a specified period of not more than fifteen (15) years. Payments shall begin on the Settlement Date following Retirement. An Election Form to change the form of benefit payout shall be considered timely if submitted during a period prescribed by the Administrator, which period cannot be less than twelve (12) months prior to the intended effective date of such change. Any change in the distribution date must defer payment for at least an additional five (5) years.
Retirement Benefits
     4.2 . Upon Termination of Employment other than by reason of Retirement or death, the Company shall pay to the Participant a termination benefit equal to the balance on Termination of Employment of the Participant's Accounts credited with notional earnings as provided in Article 3 through the
Termination Benefit
 
Valuation Date. The termination benefits shall be paid in a single lump sum on the Settlement Date following Termination of Employment.
     4.3 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the sum of all benefits payable to the Participant hereunder is less than or equal to Twenty Five Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($25,000.00), the Company may, in its sole discretion, elect to pay such benefits in a single lump sum payable as soon as administratively practicable following the event triggering payout.
Small Benefit Exception
     5.1 . If the Participant dies prior to commencement of benefits under Article 4, the Company shall pay to the Participant's Beneficiary a death benefit equal to the total balance of the Participant's Account as of the date of the Participant's death credited with notional earnings as provided in Article 3 through the Valuation Date. The death benefit shall be paid in the same form elected for the Retirement benefit under Section 4.1 and shall commence on the Settlement Date. However, the Administrator may, in its complete discretion, agree to an alternative form of payment if requested by the Beneficiary prior to the Settlement Date.
Survivor Benefit Before Benefits Commence
     5.2 . If the Participant dies after benefits have commenced under Article 4, the Company shall pay to the Participant's Beneficiary an amount equal to the remaining benefits payable to the Participant under the Plan over the same period such benefits would have been paid to the Participant. However, the Administrator may, in its complete discretion, agree to an alternative form of payment if requested by the Beneficiary prior to the Settlement Date upon which the first payment to the Beneficiary is to be made following the Participants death.
Survivor Benefit After Benefits Commence
     5.3 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the sum of all benefits payable to a Beneficiary is less than or equal to Twenty Five Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($25,000.00), the Company may, in its sole discretion, elect to pay such benefits in a single lump sum payable as soon as administratively practicable following the event triggering payout.
Small Benefit Exception
In the event of Disability, deferral elections shall cease and for purposes of calculating benefits under the Plan, Disability shall be treated as a Retirement entitling the Participant to receive the benefits provided under Article 4.1 of the Plan. The Disability benefits shall commence on the Settlement Date following Termination of Employment by reason of Disability.
 
     7.1 . The Participant may make an irrevocable election on the Participant Election Form at the time of making a deferral to take a Scheduled Withdrawal from the Account established by the Participant for such purpose, including any earnings credited thereon. The Participant may elect to receive the Scheduled Withdrawal in any Plan Year on or after the fourth Plan Year following the enrollment period in which such Scheduled Withdrawal is elected. The Participant may irrevocably elect to make additional deferrals into such Scheduled Withdrawal Account in subsequent Participant Election Forms but may not elect another Scheduled Withdrawal date for such Account until all of the amounts in the original Scheduled Withdrawal Account have been paid out.
Election
     7.2 . The Participant shall be entitled to elect a Scheduled Withdrawal of up to one hundred percent (100%) of the amount of the relevant deferral credited with notional interest as provided in Article 3 through the Valuation Date.
Maximum Scheduled Withdrawal
     7.3 . The Scheduled Withdrawal shall be paid by the Company to the Participant in a single lump sum no later than the last day of January of the Plan Year elected by the Participant in the Participant Election Form unless preceded by Termination of Employment. In the event of Termination of Employment prior to the date elected for the Scheduled Withdrawal, the Scheduled Withdrawal shall be paid in the form provided in Article 4 of the Plan. In the event such Termination of Employment is as a result of the Participant's death, the Scheduled Withdrawal shall be paid as provided in Section 5.1 of the Plan
Timing of Scheduled Withdrawal
.
Upon a finding that the Participant (or, after the Participant's death, a Beneficiary) has suffered a Financial Hardship, the Administrator may in its sole discretion, accelerate distributions of benefits, in whole or in part, or approve reduction or cessation of current deferrals under the Plan in the amount reasonably necessary to alleviate such Financial Hardship.
The Company may, at any time, amend or terminate the Plan, except that no such amendment or termination may reduce a Participant's Account balance. If the Company terminates the Plan, the date of such termination shall be treated as a Termination of Employment for the purpose of calculating Plan benefits and the Company shall pay to each Participant the benefits such Participant would be entitled to receive under Article 4 of the Plan except that such termination benefits shall be paid in a single lump sum payable as soon as practicable following the date on which termination of the Plan occurs.
 
     10.1 . The Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person or persons as Beneficiary (both primary and contingent) to whom payment under the Plan shall be made in the event of the Participant's death. The Beneficiary designation shall be effective when it is submitted in writing to and acknowledged by the Administrator during the Participant's lifetime on a form prescribed by the Administrator.
Beneficiary Designation
     10.2 . The submission of a new Beneficiary designation shall cancel all prior Beneficiary designations. Any finalized divorce or marriage (other than a common law marriage) of a Participant subsequent to the date of a Beneficiary designation shall revoke such designation, unless in the case of divorce the previous spouse was not designated as Beneficiary and unless in the case of marriage the Participant's new spouse has previously been designated as Beneficiary.
Revision of Designation
     10.3 . If the primary Beneficiary dies prior to complete distribution of the benefits provided in Article 5, the remaining Account balance shall be paid to the contingent Beneficiary elected by the Participant in the form of a lump sum payable no later than the last day of the month following the month in which the primary Beneficiary's death is established.
Successor Beneficiary
     10.4 . If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if the Beneficiary designation is revoked by marriage, divorce, or otherwise without execution of a new designation, or if every person designated as Beneficiary predeceases the Participant or dies prior to complete distribution of the Participant's benefits, then the Administrator shall direct the distribution of such benefits to the relevant estate.
Absence of Valid Designation
     11.1 . The Plan shall be administered by the Administrator, which shall have the exclusive right and full discretion (i) to interpret the Plan, (ii) to decide any and all matters arising hereunder (including the right to remedy possible ambiguities, inconsistencies, or admissions), (iii) to make, amend and rescind such rules as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan and (iv) to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, including determinations regarding eligibility for benefits payable under the Plan. All interpretations of the Administrator with respect to any matter hereunder shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons affected thereby. No member of the Administrator shall be liable for any determination, decision, or action made in good faith with respect to the Plan. The Company will indemnify and hold harmless the members of the Administrator from and against any and all liabilities, costs, and expenses incurred by such persons as a result of any act, or omission, in connection with the performance of such persons' duties, responsibilities, and obligations under the Plan, other than such liabilities, costs, and expenses as may result from the bad faith, willful misconduct, or criminal acts of such persons.
Administration
     11.2 . Any Participant, former Participant or Beneficiary may file a written claim with the Administrator setting forth the nature of the benefit claimed, the amount thereof, and the basis for claiming entitlement to such benefit. The Administrator shall determine the validity of the claim and communicate a decision to the claimant promptly and, in any event, not later than ninety (90) days after the date of the claim. The claim may be deemed by the claimant to have been denied for purposes of further review described below in the event a decision is not furnished to the claimant within such ninety (90) day period. If additional information is necessary to make a determination on a claim, the claimant shall be advised of the need
Claims Procedure
 
for such additional information within forty-five (45) days after the date of the claim. The claimant shall have up to one hundred and eighty (180) days to supplement the claim information, and the claimant shall be advised of the decision on the claim within forty-five (45) days after the earlier of the date the supplemental information is supplied or the end of the one hundred and eighty (180) day period. Every claim for benefits which is denied shall be denied by written notice setting forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant (i) the specific reason or reasons for the denial, (ii) specific reference to any provisions of the Plan (including any internal rules, guidelines, protocols, criteria, etc.) on which the denial is based, (iii) description of any additional material or information that is necessary to process the claim, and (iv) an explanation of the procedure for further reviewing the denial of the claim.
     11.3 . Within sixty (60) days after the receipt of a denial on a claim, a claimant or his/her authorized representative may file a written request for review of such denial. Such review shall be undertaken by the Administrator and shall be a full and fair review. The claimant shall have the right to review all pertinent documents. The Administrator shall issue a decision not later than sixty (60) days after receipt of a request for review from a claimant unless special circumstances, such as the need to hold a hearing, require a longer period of time, in which case a decision shall be rendered as soon as possible but not later than one hundred and twenty (120) days after receipt of the claimant's request for review. The decision on review shall be in writing and shall include specific reasons for the decision written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant with specific reference to any provisions of the Plan on which the decision is based .
Review Procedures
In the event of a Change of Control, the amounts to which Participants are entitled under this Plan shall be immediately distributed in a lump sum cash payment to Participants. For purposes of this Plan, a Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Notwithstanding the foregoing: (1) no person shall become the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above) solely as the result of an acquisition of Common Stock by the Company that, by reducing the number of shares outstanding, increases the proportionate number of shares beneficially owned by such person to ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above) of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding; provided, however, that if a person becomes the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above) of the shares of Common Stock solely by reason of purchases of Common Stock by the Company and shall, after such purchases by the Company, become the Beneficial Owner of any additional
 
shares of Common Stock which has the effect of increasing such person's percentage ownership of the then-outstanding shares of Common Stock by any means whatsoever, then such person shall be deemed to have triggered a Change of Control; and (2) if the Board of Directors determines that a person who would otherwise be the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above) of the shares of Common Stock has become such inadvertently (including, without limitation, because (i) such person was unaware that it Beneficially Owned ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above) of the shares of Common Stock or (ii) such person was aware of the extent of such beneficial ownership but such person acquired beneficial ownership of such shares of Common Stock without the intention to change or influence the control of the Company) and such person divests itself as promptly as practicable of a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock so that such person would no longer be the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above), then such person shall not be deemed to be, or have been, the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (D) above) of the shares of Common Stock, and no Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred.
 
For purposes of this Article 13, a person (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, hereinafter "Exchange Act") shall be deemed the "" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities:
Beneficial Owner
provided, however, that a person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, nor to beneficially own, any security if such person has the right to vote such security pursuant to an agreement, arrangement or understanding which (I) arises solely from a revocable proxy given to such person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, and (II) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D (or any comparable or successor report) under the Exchange Act; and provided, further, that nothing in this Section 1(b) shall cause a person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities to be the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any securities acquired through such person's participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty (40) days after the date of such acquisition or such later date as the Board of Directors may determine in any specific case.
     13.1 . No amount payable to a Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan will be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, attachment, garnishment, sale, transfer, assignment (either at law or in equity), levy, execution, pledge, encumbrance, charge or any other legal or equitable process by a Participant or Beneficiary, an any attempt to do so will be void; nor will any benefit be in any manner liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of the person entitled thereto. However, (i) the withholding of taxes from Plan benefit payments, (ii) the recovery by the Plan of overpayment of benefits previously made to a Participant, or (iii) the direct deposit of benefit payments to an account in a banking institution (if not actually part of an arrangement constituting an assignment or alienation) shall not be construed as an assignment or alienation.
Nonassignability
     13.2 . The benefits paid under the Plan shall be paid from the general funds of the Company, and the Participant and any Beneficiary shall be no more than unsecured general creditors
No Right to Company Assets
 
of the Company with no special or prior right to any assets of the Company for payment of any obligations hereunder and the Plan constitutes a mere promise by the Company to make benefit payments in the future.
     13.3 . The Participant shall cooperate with the Company by furnishing any and all information requested by the Administrator, in order to facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder, and taking such other actions as may be requested by the Administrator. If the Participant refuses to so cooperate, the Company shall have no further obligation to the Participant under the Plan.
Protective Provisions
     13.4 . In the event any Eligible Executive subject to Rule 16b issued under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (or any successor rule to the same effect) has, at any time, a Crediting Rate based upon an investment alternative consisting of or the value of which is determined based upon the value of the Company's common stock or any security into which such common stock may be changed by reason of: (a) any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization or other change in the capital structure of the Company; (b) any merger, consolidation, separation, reorganization or partial or complete liquidation; or (c) any other corporate transaction or event having an effect similar to the foregoing, unless the transaction is otherwise exempt under Rule 16b-3, no transaction with respect to the portion of the Participant's Account attributable to such investment alternative shall be permitted pursuant to this Plan until a date which is not less than six (6) months and one (1) day from the date on which the investment alternative was selected or transferred within the Participant's Account.
Section 16b Eligible Executives
     13.5 . The Participant shall make appropriate arrangements with the Company for satisfaction of any federal, state or local income tax withholding requirements and Social Security, Medicare or other employee tax requirements applicable to the payment of benefits under the Plan. If the Participant elects to defer one hundred percent (100%) of Base Salary, such deferral shall be net of the amount of any Social Security taxes payable by the Participant as a result of compensation received from the Company for such Plan Year. If no other arrangements are made, the Company may provide, at its discretion, for such withholding and tax payments as may be required, including, without limitation, by the reduction of other amounts payable to the Participant.
Withholding
     13.6 . The Administrator shall establish the actuarial assumptions and method of calculation used in determining the present or future value of benefits, earnings, payments, fees, expenses or any other amounts required to be calculated under the terms of the Plan. The Administrator shall also establish reasonable procedures regarding the form and timing of installment payments. Such assumptions and methodology shall be outlined in detail in procedures established by the Administrator and made available to Participants and may be changed from time to time by the Administrator.
Assumptions and Methodology
     13.7 . The Company shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits under the Plan. At its discretion, the Company may establish one or more grantor trusts for the purpose of providing for payment of benefits under the Plan. Such trust or trusts may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of the Company's creditors. Benefits paid to the Participant from any such trust or trusts shall be considered paid by the Company for purposes of meeting the obligations of the Company under the Plan. Neither the establishment of the Plan or Trust or any modification thereof, or the creation of any fund or account, or the payment of any benefits shall be construed as giving to any Participant or other person any legal or equitable right against the Company or any officer or employee thereof, except as provided by law or by any Plan provision. The amounts in the Accounts shall remain the sole property of the Company unless and until required to be distributed in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, and shall not constitute a trust or be deemed to be held in trust for the benefit of any Participant or Beneficiary hereunder or their personal representative. The Company does not in any way guarantee the trust or any Participant's benefit from loss or depreciation. In no event shall the Company's employees, officers, directors or stockholders be liable to any person on account of any claim arising by reason of the provisions of the Plan or of any instrument or instruments implementing its provisions, or for the failure of any Participant, Beneficiary or other person to be entitled to any particular tax consequences with respect to the Plan, the trust(s) or any contribution thereto or distribution therefrom
Trust
 
     14.1 . The rights and obligations of the Company under the Plan shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of the Company.
Successors of the Company
     14.2 . Nothing contained in the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as a contract of employment or as giving any Participant any right to continued employment with the Company.
Employment Not Guaranteed
     14.3 . All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, or neuter, as the identity of the person or persons may require. As the context may require, the singular may be read as the plural and the plural as the singular.
Gender, Singular and Plural
     14.4 . The captions of the articles, paragraphs and sections of the Plan are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of its provisions.
Captions
     14.5 . In the event any provision of the Plan is held invalid, void or unenforceable, the same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other provisions of the Plan.
Validity
     14.6 . The waiver by the Company of any breach of any provision of the Plan shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by that Participant or any other Participant.
Waiver of Breach
     14.7 . Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Company or the Participant under this Agreement shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by first class mail, in the case of the Company, to the principal office of the Company, directed to the attention of the Administrator, and in the case of the Participant, to the last known address of the Participant indicated on the employment records of the Company. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark on the receipt for registration or certification. Notices to the Company may be permitted by electronic communication according to specifications established by the Administrator.
Notice
     14.8 . In the event an error is made in a benefit statement, such error shall be corrected on the next benefit statement following the date such error is discovered. In the event of an error in a distribution, the Participant's Account shall, immediately upon the discovery of such error, be adjusted to reflect such under or over payment and, if possible, the next distribution shall be adjusted upward or downward to correct such prior error. If the remaining balance of a Participant's Account is insufficient to cover an erroneous overpayment, the Company may, at its discretion, offset other amounts payable to the Participant from the Company (including but not limited to salary, bonuses, expense reimbursements, severance benefits or other employee compensation benefit arrangements, as allowed by law) to recoup the amount of such overpayment(s).
Errors in Benefit Statement or Distributions
     14.9 . The Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation benefits for a select group of "management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA and therefore to be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA.
ERISA Plan
     14.10 . In the event any provision of, or legal issue relating to, this Plan is not fully preempted by ERISA, such issue or provision shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio.
Applicable Law
     14.11 . Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, in the event of the enactment of any legislation or regulations which, in the sole discretion of the
Effect of Legislative or Regulatory Changes
 
Company, have an unfavorable impact on the Company and/or Participants, the Company shall have the unilateral right to amend the Plan in whatever manner it deems appropriate to mitigate the effects of such legislation or regulations, without the necessity of obtaining further Board approval.
     14.12 . Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, in the event the Internal Revenue Service rules unfavorably as to the tax consequences of deferrals made under this Plan for any Plan Year, the Board may take any such action as it deems necessary or appropriate, including action to restore Participants to substantially the same position they would have enjoyed had this Plan not been effective for such Plan Year.
Effect of IRS Determination
                       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Plan to be executed this 20th day of July, 2005.

 
EXHIBIT 10(g)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused the Plan to be executed effective as of July 20, 2005.
 
     I, the undersigned, (), a non-employee director of The Sherwin-Williams Company (the "Company") hereby irrevocably elect to participate in The Sherwin-Williams Company Director Deferred Fee Plan (the "Plan"). I acknowledge that this deferral is effective upon receipt of this Notice of Election form by the Secretary of the Company, and is subject to all provisions stated in the Plan document. I understand that this election shall be irrevocable as to fees payable to me during the next full Plan Year (which runs from April 1st through March 31st), and shall continue in effect for subsequent Plan Years except to the extent that I file either a new notice of election changing my prior election or a notice of termination on or before the March 31st prior to any subsequent Plan Year.
                    
                    
Print Name
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have signed my name on this day of , 20.
          
                    
     
 
     Pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, I, the undersigned, (), hereby terminate my participation in the Plan effective as of April 1, 20.
                    
                    
Print Name
      
 
CHECK LIST
Please review and complete all sections applicable to you.
If you do not complete this form in its entirety, your elections may be invalid!
 
(Please Print all information, except Signatures)
Section A: Director Information
Section B: Primary Beneficiary (ies)
I hereby designate the following person or persons as primary Beneficiaries of my Account under the Plan payable in the event of my death.
The total of the percentages must equal 100%. When more than one Beneficiary is designated, and no percentage is specified, payment will be made in equal shares to each surviving Beneficiary, or all to the last surviving Beneficiary. If using more than two primary beneficiaries, attach addendum sheet to include your printed Name, Social Security, Date and Signature.
Section C: Contingent Beneficiary (ies)
In the event that there are no living primary Beneficiary (ies) at my death, I hereby designate the following person or persons as contingent Beneficiaries of my Account:
 
The total of the percentages must equal 100%. When more than one Beneficiary is designated, and no percentage is specified, payment will be made in equal shares to each surviving Beneficiary, or all to the last surviving Beneficiary. If using more than two contingent beneficiaries, attach addendum sheet to include your printed Name, Social Security, Date and Signature.
Section D: Director Signature
I reserve the right to revoke or change any Beneficiary designation by completing a new form. I hereby revoke all my prior designations (if any) of primary and contingent Beneficiary (ies). I reserve the right to change my beneficiary in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
Section E: Notary Public
On this day of , 200 personally appeared before me the said named and known to me to be the person (s) described in and who executed the foregoing instrument and he/she acknowledged that he/she executed the same.
                    
                    
                    
      
                    
                    
                    
                    
Notary Seal
Section F: Sherwin-Williams Plan Representative
As Plan Representative I hereby acknowledge receipt of this form.
All Signature(s) on this form have been witnessed on this day of , 200 in the presence of:
          
                    
                    
                    
Return the completed form to:
     
The Sherwin-Williams Company, Employee Benefits-Retirement Programs
     
1300 Midland, 101 Prospect Avenue NW, Cleveland, Ohio 44115-1075

 
EXHIBIT 99               
 
CLEVELAND, July 20, 2005  The Sherwin-Williams Company (SHW) announced that David F. Hodnik, retired President and Chief Executive Officer of Ace Hardware Corporation, was elected today to the Board of Directors of Sherwin-Williams. Mr. Hodnik was also appointed to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. Hodnik's election brings the number of members of the Board of Directors to 11 and the number of independent directors to 10.
     "Dave brings a wealth of financial and management experience in a retail environment to the Sherwin-Williams Board," commented Christopher M. Connor, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Sherwin-Williams. "We look forward to receiving many years of his valuable insight and counsel for the benefit of our company."
     Prior to his retirement in April 2005, Mr. Hodnik held various financial and management positions with Ace Hardware during a more than 30-year career. Mr. Hodnik, 57, is a graduate of Western Illinois University and is a certified public accountant.
     The Sherwin-Williams Company, founded in 1866, is one of the world's leading companies engaged in the manufacture, distribution and sale of coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers.


