FILE:SHW/SHW-8K-20051025095504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(216) 566-2000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On October 21, 2005, the Board of Directors approved the following action of the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors regarding the compensation payable to Sherwin-Williams' non-employee directors. Effective January 1, 2006, the cash compensation payable to Sherwin-Williams' non-employee directors will be as follows:
Director Compensation.
     All retainer amounts will be payable in quarterly installments in advance. All meeting fees will be payable on the date of the meeting.
     In addition, non-employee directors will receive an annual grant of restricted stock valued at approximately $65,000 at the time of the grant pursuant to The Sherwin-Williams Company 1997 Stock Plan for Nonemployee Directors. A copy of the Form of Restricted Stock Grant under The Sherwin-Williams Company 1997 Stock Plan for Nonemployee Directors was filed as Exhibit 10(a) to Sherwin-Williams' Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.
     On October 21, 2005, the Board of Directors approved the following action of the Compensation Committee with regard to The Sherwin-Williams Company Management Incentive Plan. The Management Incentive Plan is part of The Sherwin-Williams Company Management Compensation Program. The Compensation Committee amended the Management Compensation Program to increase the maximum bonus awards available under the Management Incentive Plan (beginning for bonuses earned for 2006) for certain executive officers who were named in the Summary Compensation Table of Sherwin-Williams' 2005 Proxy Statement. The table below sets forth the minimum, target and maximum cash bonus award levels, as a percent of salary, for such executive officers under the amended Management Incentive Plan based upon the executive officer achieving 75%, 100% and 125%, respectively, of his or her individual performance goals. A copy of the amended Management Compensation Program is filed as Exhibit 10 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Executive Officer Annual Incentive Compensation.
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 25, 2005, The Sherwin-Williams Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2005 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is furnished with this Report as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 10
PURPOSE
The purpose of the Sherwin-Williams Management Compensation Program is to establish and maintain a performance and achievement oriented management environment throughout the Company that results in improved profits and/or creativity. The primary emphasis is to develop Sherwin-Williams as a superior company that can achieve and sustain above average earnings growth and a company dedicated to excellence in management, products, services and product development.
With this in mind, the Program is designed so that participating managers will earn higher than average total compensation for doing an above average job and have the opportunity to accumulate a significant estate if the Company's long-range earnings goals are achieved.
TOTAL COMPENSATION
Sherwin-Williams' base salary structure is so designed that a participant may receive a level of salary compensation which approximates the average of that paid an equivalent position in the same or similar industries, as reported by several outside executive compensation services. Those who participate in the Incentive Plan may be awarded additional compensation in the form of cash and deferred compensation for performance results that meet or exceed specified pre-determined goals. Total compensation, therefore, may exceed that of comparable executive positions in the outside marketplace.
 
ELIGIBILITY TO PARTICIPATE IN SWMIP
Eligibility to participate in the Plan is limited to Corporate, Group and Division key managers who are responsible for profit decisions and major policy direction. To remain a participant, one must remain an active employee in a participating job through the end of the Plan year (December 31). Individuals employed in a participating job by October 1 of the Plan year may become eligible to participate in that Plan year upon approval of the Chief Executive Officer and/or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Division participants are selected and recommended by the Division President, Group President and Chief Operating Officer on an individual basis after careful consideration and evaluation and must be approved by the Chief Executive Officer. The potential of the position to contribute to the achievement of overall Company goals is the major criterion for being approved as a Plan participant.
Participation at the Corporate level is limited to Officers and Major Department Heads.
Certain limits are placed on the number of managers from any one Division that may be included in the Plan as shown below. The numbers shown in parentheses represent additional participants who may be included in the Plan if warranted by the responsibilities of the position.
 
INCENTIVE AWARDS
The Plan is designed to provide an award for over prior year results. To be eligible for any award under the Plan, a participant, Division or Department must attain at least 75% of the improvement portion of the major profit or program goal.
improvement
     For example:
Prior Year Actual PBT:      $13.0MM Plan Year PBT:                   $14.0MM Planned Improvement:        $  1.0MM
The threshold for earning an award is an improvement of $0.750MM (75% of $1MM) or an actual PBT for the Plan Year of 13.75MM.
Where an approved profit goal shows no improvement, or is considered to show insufficient improvement, the participant, Division or Department must attain the goal to earn any award. The achievement of this goal
may
result in an incentive award at the
minimum
payout level for the appropriate Incentive Group (as hereafter described), provided that the Company achieves its overall goals. Generally, no additional incentive will be awarded unless the results exceed the prior year's actual results.
 
As an example: Prior Year Actual PBT:       $13.0MM Plan Year Goal PBT:           $12.7MM
Incentive payouts be as follows, assuming the Company achieves its overall goals:
may
Participants are assigned to an Incentive Group (Exhibit A) which determines the potential percentage of base salary that may be awarded. Assignment to an Incentive Group is made by the Chief Executive Officer. Individual awards are based on the overall percentage of goal achievement as described in the Performance Results Evaluation section which follows and as approved by the Chief Executive Officer and/or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
PERFORMANCE RESULTS EVALUATION
Assuming the overall Company earnings performance is at least 75% of the planned improvement goal, individual performance is evaluated at the end of the year in terms of achievement of goals set by the participant and approved by management at the beginning of the year. If the Company does not meet the minimum earnings improvement, funds may not be available for awards, although special awards may be made under exceptional circumstances.
The process for individual goal achievement evaluation is outlined in the following steps. In all cases, recommended awards must be approved by the Chief Executive Officer and/or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
PROCEDURES FOR EVALUATING GOAL ACHIEVEMENT
1. The goals are pre-determined and agreed upon by the participant and immediate supervisor, reviewed by the Division President, Group President and/or Chief Operating Officer or Corporate Department Head and submitted to the Chief Executive Officer for approval. Strong emphasis is placed on over the previous fiscal year; particularly where the goals relate to profits, profit margins and return on assets employed.
improvement
 
2. At the close of each fiscal year, participants review their own performance by recording achievements as related to pre-determined goals.
3. The supervisor then determines a performance rating percentage for each quantitative goal by comparing the goal against supervisory appraisal of the achievement of that goal. For all Division participants, a performance rating percentage for each special goal and each strategic goal will be determined by the Division President, Group President and Chief Operating Officer. For Corporate participants, these performance rating percentages will be determined by the Chief Executive Officer. A percentage achievement rating is scaled as follows:
 
4. The participant's appraisal and the supervisor's rating of each goal, together with any additional comments by the supervisor, form the basis for overall performance. The overall performance rating is then reviewed for approval by subsequent levels of management. The overall evaluation may not exceed 125%.
5. The Chief Executive Officer reviews the recommended incentive awards in terms of individual performance, the performance of the Division or Department and the overall performance of the Company, and, as appropriate, reviews his recommendations with the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
6. After the recommendations and approvals are final, a review session is held with each participant, at which time the supervisor is to review the incentive award with the participant.
7. Fair, impartial judgement is in reality the major factor in the final determination, and not arithmetic results.
8. The incentive award is determined as follows:
SPECIAL INCENTIVE AWARDS
In addition to the previously described incentive awards, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors may, from time to time, declare a special incentive award ("Special Incentive Award") with respect to a particular Plan year. The performance objectives and any other criteria, restrictions or procedures associated with eligibility to receive any such Special Incentive Award shall be determined by the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, and the material terms thereof shall be attached hereto and incorporated herein as an exhibit to the Plan. All applicable information regarding eligibility for or other aspects of any Special Incentive Awards shall also be communicated in writing to all Plan participants on a timely basis.
 
GENERAL
Each employee should understand that the employment relationship with Sherwin-Williams, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, is an relationship and, as such, may be terminated at any time by either party. Nothing in any application form, employee handbook, summary, booklet, policy manual or other communication is intended to be an express or implied contract of employment, or guarantee of employment for a specific period of time between an employee and the Company, a subsidiary or affiliate, unless clearly so stated and signed by both parties.
at-will
INCOME DEFERRAL
The Company has a deferred compensation plan to provide greater flexibility in the method of payment of incentive awards. The payment of an incentive award may be deferred, in whole or in part, under the Company's Key Management Deferred Compensation Plan if that is an employee's election prior to the start of the Plan year. Otherwise, payment will be made in cash.
October, 2005
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
     
 
     CLEVELAND, OHIO, October 25, 2005  The Sherwin-Williams Company (NYSE: SHW) announced its financial results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2005. Compared to 2004, consolidated net sales increased 17.9% to $2.0 billion in the quarter and 18.8% to $5.5 billion in nine months. Diluted net income per common share increased 16.3% in the quarter to $1.07 per share from $.92 per share in 2004 and 27.6% in nine months to $2.73 per share from $2.14 per share last year.
     The consolidated net sales gains in the third quarter and nine months were due primarily to strong sales performances by stores open for more than twelve calendar months, acquisitions in the Paint Stores and Consumer Segments and improvements in the Automotive Finishes and International Coatings Segments. Acquisitions, including Duron, Inc. and Paint Sundry Brands Corporation acquired in September 2004, added $102.1 million, or 6.1%, to net sales in the third quarter of 2005 and $367.1 million, or 8.0%, to net sales in nine months.
     The increase in diluted net income per common share of $.15 per share in the quarter resulted primarily from a $.12 per share increase in improved operating performance and profit contributions of acquisitions. The increase in diluted net income per common share of $.59 per share in nine months was due primarily to a $.41 per share increase in improved operating performance and profit contributions of acquisitions.
     Net sales in the Paint Stores Segment increased 22.2% to $1.4 billion in the quarter and 23.9% to $3.7 billion in nine months due primarily to strong domestic architectural paint sales to contractor customers, increased sales to do-it-yourself (DIY) customers and improved industrial maintenance and product finishes sales. The acquisition of Duron, Inc. added approximately 6.6% to this Segment's net sales in the quarter and 9.0% in nine months. Net sales from stores open for more than twelve calendar months increased 14.0% in the quarter and 13.2% in nine months over last year. Paint Stores Segment operating profit increased 9.8% to $185.1 million in the quarter and 23.5% to $450.7 million in nine months. The operating profit increase in the third quarter was due primarily to increased sales volume, effective SG&A expense control and higher selling prices that partially offset increased raw material costs. For nine months, operating profit increased primarily due to increased sales volume, the profit contribution of Duron, Inc., effective SG&A control and higher selling prices that partially offset increased raw material costs.
 
     Net sales of the Consumer Segment increased in the quarter 4.5% to $361.2 million and increased in nine months 6.8% to $1.1 billion. The sales improvements were due to acquisitions, including Paint Sundry Brands Corporation, that added approximately 8.0% to net sales in the quarter and approximately 9.1% to net sales in nine months. Net sales increases in the Consumer Segment resulting from new product introductions, increased paint sales volume and selling price increases were more than offset by the elimination of a paint program with a customer, lower sales to certain major retail customers of this Segment as they continue to drive up inventory turns and sluggish retail sales at some of the Segment's other customers. Operating profit of this Segment declined 2.6% to $53.0 million in the quarter and 2.6% to $169.0 million in nine months. The operating profit declines were due to continued significant escalation in raw material cost increases. Selling price increases, tight expense control, profit contributions from acquisitions and better factory utilization resulting from higher volume through the Paint Stores Segment only partially offset these raw material cost increases.
     Net sales in the Automotive Finishes Segment increased 11.3% in the quarter to $145.5 million and 9.5% in nine months to $419.0 million. The sales increases were due primarily to increased paint sales volume, selling price increases and the impact of favorable currency exchange rates. The impact of favorable currency exchange rates increased net sales of this Segment by 3.8% in the quarter and 2.8% in nine months. Operating profit of this Segment declined $5.2 million to $9.6 million in the quarter and declined $1.0 million to $42.1 million in nine months. This Segment's operating profit was negatively impacted by a loss of $7.9 million sustained in the third quarter resulting from the disposition of its majority interest in a joint venture in China. Operating profit of this Segment was favorably impacted in the quarter and nine months by effective expense control and increased sales that partially offset significant increases in raw material costs. There was no significant impact on operating profit in the quarter or nine months due to currency exchange fluctuations.
     Net sales in the International Coatings Segment increased 25.9% to $101.5 million in the quarter and 22.8% to $286.2 million in nine months. The net sales increases in U. S. dollars were due primarily to increased net sales in local currencies of 9.9% in the quarter and 11.1% in nine months that were enhanced by the impact of favorable currency exchange rates. The sales increases in local currencies were due primarily to volume gains and selling price increases in South America. The International Coatings Segment operating profit improved to $8.4 million from $4.5 million in the third quarter last year and increased to $15.7 million from $10.5 million in nine months last year. The improvements in the operating profit from last year were due primarily to increased sales in local currencies, favorable currency exchange rates and improved operating efficiencies related to additional manufacturing volume which were partially offset by continued significant escalation in cost increases of many raw materials.
     The Company acquired 2,325,629 shares of its common stock through open market purchases during the quarter and had remaining authorization at September 30, 2005 to purchase 4,397,271 shares.
     Commenting on the third quarter and nine months results, Christopher M. Connor, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We are pleased that in 2005 we have been able to achieve higher net sales based in large part on volume gains and apparent market share gains. We are also pleased with the increased 2005 diluted net income per share amounts that our dedicated employees have worked hard to obtain in spite of many cost and competitive pressures. We are proud that we were able to continue our annual increase in the quarterly cash dividend paid to our shareholders. However, we are amazed by the continuing rapid escalation in raw material costs. Unfortunately, these cost increases continue to put downward pressure on our gross margins. Though we are maintaining tight control over expenses, we have no other alternative than to implement certain price increases.
 
     "We continue to be encouraged by the strong sales increases across all product categories in our Paint Stores Segment which helped mitigate much of the significant escalating raw material cost increases. We remain concerned about the sluggish paint sales in the Consumer Segment, the sales softness at some of that Segment's retail customers and the negative impact on margins of raw material costs that need to be recovered through price increases. Although the Consumer Segment's operating profit felt the accelerating decline in gross margins during the quarter, we continue to be optimistic that this Segment will manage through raw material cost increases and improve sales in the long-term. The acquisitions of Duron and Paint Sundry Brands, though annualized during the third quarter, continue to have a favorable impact on both net sales and operating profit. We are encouraged by the continued steady improvements in sales and operational performance of our Automotive Finishes and International Coatings Segments.
     "In the fourth quarter, with the annualization of the largest acquisitions behind us, we anticipate achieving a mid-single digit percentage increase in consolidated net sales over last year's fourth quarter. With sales at that level, we expect diluted net income per common share for the fourth quarter to be in the range of $.41 to $.49 per share compared to $.57 per share last year. During the fourth quarter 2004, a reduction in the annual effective tax rate resulting from the favorable effects of recent tax legislation increased fourth quarter net income by approximately $11.6 million, or approximately $.08 per share. We expect the effective tax rate for the full year 2005 will be below the rate for the full year 2004. We last commented on July 21, 2005 that we expected that the percentage increase in our annual consolidated net sales for 2005 would be in the mid-to-high-teens over 2004 and diluted net income per common share for the year 2005 would be in the range of $3.20 to $3.30 per share. We now anticipate that the percentage increase in our annual consolidated net sales for 2005 will be in the mid-teens over 2004. With annual sales at that level, we expect diluted net income per common share for the year 2005 to be in the range of $3.15 to $3.23 per share compared to $2.72 per share earned in 2004."
     The Company will conduct a conference call to discuss its financial results for the third quarter and nine months, and its outlook for the fourth quarter and full year 2005, at 11:00 a.m. ET on October 25, 2005. The conference call will be webcast simultaneously. To listen to the webcast on the Sherwin-Williams website, , click on Press Room, then choose Corporate Press Releases in the Corporate Information box and click on the webcast icon following the reference to the October 25 release. The webcast will also be available on Vcall's Investor Calendar website, . An archived replay of the live webcast will be available at beginning approximately two hours after the call ends and will be available until Thursday, November 3, 2005 at 5:00 p.m. ET.
www.sherwin.com
th
www.investorcalendar.com
www.sherwin.com
     The Sherwin-Williams Company, founded in 1866, is one of the world's leading companies engaged in the manufacture, distribution and sale of coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers.
 
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements," as defined under U.S. federal securities laws, with respect to sales, earnings and other matters. These forward-looking statements are based upon management's current expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events and conditions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of the Company, that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements and from the Company's historical results and experience. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include such things as: general business conditions, strengths of retail and manufacturing economies and the growth in the coatings industry; changes in the Company's relationships with customers and suppliers; changes in raw material availability and pricing; unusual weather conditions; and other risks, uncertainties and factors described from time to time in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Since it is not possible to predict or identify all of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results, the above list should not be considered a complete list. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Additional information regarding the Company's financial results can be found on the Internet at "www.sherwin.com", click on Press Room, then choose Corporate Press Releases in the Corporate Information box and click on the October 25th release.


