FILE:SHW/SHW-8K-20051214105107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (216) 566-2000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 .
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On December 8, 2005, The Sherwin-Williams Company entered into a Second Amendment and Restatement Agreement (the "Second Amendment") with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders party thereto. The Second Amendment amends and restates the Five-Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of July 19, 2004, as amended and restated as of July 20, 2005, among Sherwin-Williams; the Lenders party thereto; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent; Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent; and Bank of America, N.A., Citicorp USA, Inc. and National City Bank, as Co-Documentation Agents. The primary purpose of the Second Amendment is to add a $500 million letter of credit subfacility. A copy of the Second Amendment is filed as Exhibit 4 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed with this Report.
     
Exhibit No.
Exhibit Description
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 4 SECOND AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT AGREEMENT dated as of December 8, 2005 (this "Amendment and Restatement") in respect of the FIVE-YEAR COMPETITIVE ADVANCE AND REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY AGREEMENT (the "Credit Agreement") dated as of July 19, 2004, as amended and restated as of July 20, 2005, among THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY (the "Borrower"); the LENDERS party thereto; and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent. WHEREAS the Borrower and the Lenders whose signatures appear below, constituting the Required Lenders (such term and each other capitalized term used but not defined herein having the meaning assigned thereto in the Restated Credit Agreement, as defined below), have agreed, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, to amend and restate the Credit Agreement as set forth herein. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: SECTION 1. Amendment and Restatement of Credit Agreement. Effective as of the Second Amendment Effective Date (as defined below), the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in the form of the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement attached as Exhibit A hereto (as so amended and restated, the "Restated Credit Agreement"), it being agreed that all schedules and exhibits to the Credit Agreement shall continue to constitute schedules and exhibits to the Restated Credit Agreement in the forms thereof in effect immediately prior to the Second Amendment Effective Date. SECTION 2. Representations and Warranties. The Borrower represents and warrants as of the Second Amendment Effective Date to the Lenders that: (a) All representations and warranties set forth in the Restated Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects with the same effect as if made on the Second Amendment Effective Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date (in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date). (b) Immediately before and after giving effect to this Amendment and Restatement, no Default has occurred and is continuing. SECTION 3. Conditions to Effectiveness. This Amendment and Restatement and the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans under the Restated Credit Agreement shall become effective on the date (the "Second Amendment Effective Date") on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02 of the Credit Agreement), which date is December 8, 2005: 2
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from Lenders constituting the Required Lenders either (A) a counterpart of this Amendment and Restatement signed on behalf of such party or (B) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed signature page of this Amendment and Restatement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Amendment and Restatement. (b) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Second Amendment Effective Date) of L.E. Stellato, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Borrower substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1 to the Restated Credit Agreement. The Borrower hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinion. (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of the Borrower, the authorization of this Amendment and Restatement, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel. (d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Second Amendment Effective Date and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Borrower, confirming the accuracy of the representations set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 2 of this Amendment and Restatement. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Second Amendment Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. SECTION 4. Agreements. Except as specifically stated herein, the provisions of the Credit Agreement are and shall remain in full force and effect. As used therein, the terms "Credit Agreement", "herein", "hereunder", "hereinafter", "hereto", "hereof" and words of similar import shall, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to the Restated Credit Agreement. SECTION 5. Certain Amendments to Restated Credit Agreement. Each of the undersigned Lenders agrees that it will not consent to any amendment to the Restated Credit Agreement that would (i) reduce the principal amount of any LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (ii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any LC Disbursement, or any interest thereon, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby or (iii) amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of any Issuing Bank under the Restated Credit Agreement without the prior written consent of such Issuing Bank. 3
SECTION 6. APPLICABLE LAW. THIS AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. SECTION 7. Counterparts. This Amendment and Restatement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original but all of which when taken together shall constitute but one contract. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment and Restatement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment and Restatement. This Amendment and Restatement shall constitute a "Loan Document" for all purposes of the Restated Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents. SECTION 8. Expenses. The Borrower agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by it in connection with this Amendment and Restatement, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Administrative Agent. SECTION 9. Headings. The headings of this Amendment and Restatement are for purposes of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof. 4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment and Restatement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written. THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY By /s/ Sean P. Hennessy ----------------------------------- Name: Sean P. Hennessy Title: Senior Vice President- Finance and Chief Financial Officer JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., individually and as Administrative Agent, By /s/ Stacey Haimes ----------------------------------- Name: Stacey Haimes Title: Vice President 5
SIGNATURE PAGE TO THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY SECOND AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT AGREEMENT DATED AS OF DECEMBER 8, 2005 WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, by /s/ Barbara Van Meerten --------------------------------- Name: Barbara Van Meerten Title: Director BANK OF AMERICA N.A, by /s/ Irene Bertozzi Bartenstein --------------------------------- Name: Irene Bertozzi Bartenstein Title: Principal CITICORP USA, INC., by /s/ Joronne Jeter --------------------------------- Name: Joronne Jeter Title: Vice President NATIONAL CITY BANK, by /s/ Robert S. Coleman --------------------------------- Name: Robert S. Coleman Title: Senior Vice President THE BANK OF NEW YORK, by /s/ Kevin Higgins --------------------------------- Name: Kevin Higgins Title: Vice President
KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, by Brendan A. Lawlor --------------------------------- Name: Brendon A. Lawlor Title: SVP SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION, by /s/ Yoshihiro Hyakutome --------------------------------- Name: Yoshihiro Hyakutome Title: Joint General Manager SUNTRUST BANK, by /s/ Heidi M. Khambatta --------------------------------- Name: Heidi Khambatta Title: Director WELLS FARGO BANK N.A., by /s/ Pete Martinets --------------------------------- Name: Pete Martinets Title: Vice President by /s/ Steven Buehler --------------------------------- Name: Steven Buehler Title: Vice President ABN AMRO BANK N.V., by /s/ Eric Oppenheimer --------------------------------- Name: Eric Oppenheimer Title: Director
by /s/ Luc Perrot --------------------------------- Name: Luc Perrot Title: Assistant Vice President FIFTH THIRD BANK, by /s/ R C Lanctot --------------------------------- Name: Roy C. Lanctot Title: Vice President BANCO SANTANDER CENTRAL HISPANO, S.A. NEW YORK BRANCH, by /s/ Karen M. Wagner --------------------------------- Name: Karen M. Wagner Title: Vice President by /s/ Frank G. English, IV --------------------------------- Name: Frank G. English, IV Title: Managing Director
SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED FIVE-YEAR COMPETITIVE ADVANCE AND REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY AGREEMENT dated as of July 19, 2004 as Amended and Restated as of July 20, 2005, and as further Amended and Restated as of December 8, 2005 among THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY The Lenders Party Hereto, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. CITICORP USA, INC. NATIONAL CITY BANK as Co-Documentation Agents JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as Administrative Agent, and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION as Syndication Agent ---------- J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. and WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC as Co-Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
SECTION 3.08. Federal Reserve Regulations....................................... 40 SECTION 3.09. Investment and Holding Company Status............................. 40 SECTION 3.10. Taxes ............................................................ 40 SECTION 3.11. ERISA ............................................................ 40 SECTION 3.12. Disclosure........................................................ 40 ARTICLE IV Conditions SECTION 4.01. [Intentionally Omitted] .......................................... 41 SECTION 4.02. Each Credit Event ................................................ 41 ARTICLE V Affirmative Covenants SECTION 5.01. Financial Statements; Ratings Change and Other Information........ 41 SECTION 5.02. Notices of Material Events........................................ 43 SECTION 5.03. Existence; Conduct of Business.................................... 43 SECTION 5.04. Payment of Obligations............................................ 43 SECTION 5.05. Maintenance of Properties; Insurance.............................. 43 SECTION 5.06. Books and Records; Inspection Rights ............................. 44 SECTION 5.07. Compliance with Laws.............................................. 44 SECTION 5.08. Use of Proceeds................................................... 44 ARTICLE VI Negative Covenants SECTION 6.01. Liens............................................................. 44 SECTION 6.02. Fundamental Changes............................................... 46 SECTION 6.03. Leverage Ratio ................................................... 46
ii
ARTICLE VII Events of Default ARTICLE VIII The Agents ARTICLE IX Miscellaneous SECTION 9.01. Notices .......................................................... 51 SECTION 9.02. Waivers; Amendments............................................... 51 SECTION 9.03. Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver................................ 52 SECTION 9.04. Successors and Assigns............................................ 53 SECTION 9.05. Survival ......................................................... 57 SECTION 9.06. Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.......................... 58 SECTION 9.07. Severability ..................................................... 58 SECTION 9.08. Right of Setoff................................................... 58 SECTION 9.09. Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process........ 58 SECTION 9.10. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.............................................. 59 SECTION 9.11. Headings.......................................................... 59 SECTION 9.12. Confidentiality .................................................. 59 SECTION 9.13. Interest Rate Limitation ......................................... 60 SECTION 9.14. USA Patriot Act .................................................. 60 SECTION 9.15. Waiver of Notice Period .......................................... 61
SCHEDULES: Schedule 2.01 -- Commitments EXHIBITS: Exhibit A -- Form of Assignment and Assumption Exhibit B-1 -- Form of Opinion of L.E. Stellato, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Borrower Exhibit B-2 -- Form of Opinion of Jones Day, counsel for the Borrower iii
SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED FIVE-YEAR COMPETITIVE ADVANCE AND REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY AGREEMENT dated as of July 19, 2004, as amended and restated as of July 20, 2005, and as further amended and restated as of December 8, 2005, among THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY; the LENDERS party hereto; BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., CITICORP USA, INC., and NATIONAL CITY BANK, as Co-Documentation Agents; JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as Administrative Agent; and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Syndication Agent. The Borrower (such term and each other capitalized term used and not otherwise defined herein having the meaning assigned to it in Article I) has requested the Lenders to extend credit to enable it to borrow on a revolving credit basis and obtain the issuance of letters of credit on and after the date hereof and at any time and from time to time prior to the Maturity Date a principal amount not in excess of $910,000,000 at any time outstanding. The Borrower has also requested the Lenders to establish procedures pursuant to which the Borrower may invite the Lenders to bid on an uncommitted basis on short-term borrowings by the Borrower maturing on or prior to the Maturity Date. The proceeds of borrowings hereunder are to be used for general corporate purposes, including the financing of working capital requirements and commercial paper backup. The Lenders are willing to extend such credit to the Borrower on the terms and subject to the conditions herein set forth. Accordingly, the parties hereto agree as follows: ARTICLE I Definitions SECTION 1.01. Defined Terms. As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below: "ABR", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate. "Adjusted LIBO Rate" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate. "Administrative Agent" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder, and any successor administrative agent appointed pursuant to Article VIII.
"Administrative Questionnaire" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent. "Affiliate" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified. "Agents" means the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent. "Agreement" means this Five-Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement as the same may hereafter be modified, supplemented or amended from time to time. "Alternate Base Rate" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively. "Applicable Percentage" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have been terminated or have expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the amounts of the outstanding Loans and LC Exposure or, if no Loans are outstanding and there is no LC Exposure, based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments. "Applicable Rate" means, for any day, in connection with the facility fees payable hereunder, or in connection with the interest accruing on any Eurodollar Revolving Loan, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Facility Fee Rate" or "Eurodollar Spread", as the case may be, based upon the ratings by S&P and Moody's, respectively, applicable on such date to the Index Debt. 2
For purposes of the foregoing, (i) if either S&P or Moody's shall not have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the last sentence of this definition), then such rating agency shall be deemed to have established a rating in Category 5; (ii) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by S&P and Moody's for the Index Debt shall fall within different Categories, the Applicable Rate shall be based on the higher of the two ratings unless one of the two ratings is two or more Categories lower than the other, in which case the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the Category one level above the Category corresponding to the lower rating; and (iii) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by S&P and Moody's for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of S&P or Moody's), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency. Each change in the Applicable Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of S&P or Moody's shall change, or if either such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, the Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation. "Approved Fund" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04. "Assignment and Assumption" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent. "Availability Period" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of the termination of the Commitments. "Board" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America. "Borrower" means The Sherwin-Williams Company, an Ohio corporation. "Borrowing" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect or (b) a Competitive Loan or group of Competitive Loans of the same Type made on the same date and as to which a single Interest Period is in effect. "Borrowing Request" means a request by the Borrower for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03. 3
"Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; provided that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market. "Capital Lease Obligations" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP. "Change in Control" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder), other than an employee benefit or stock ownership plan of the Borrower, of Equity Interests representing more than 40% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the Borrower or (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Borrower by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Borrower nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated. "Change in Law" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender or Issuing Bank (or, for purposes of Section 2.14(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement. "Class", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Competitive Loans. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. "Commitment" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate permitted amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.08 or reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender under Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment 4
and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $910,000,000. "Competitive Bid" means an offer by a Lender to make a Competitive Loan in accordance with Section 2.04. "Competitive Bid Rate" means, with respect to any Competitive Bid, the Margin or the Fixed Rate, as applicable, offered by the Lender making such Competitive Bid. "Competitive Bid Request" means a request by the Borrower for Competitive Bids in accordance with Section 2.04. "Competitive Loan" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.04. "Consolidated EBITDA" means, for any period, for the Borrower and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to consolidated net income of the Borrower for such period plus (a) to the extent deducted in calculating such consolidated net income, (i) consolidated interest expense of the Borrower for such period, (ii) consolidated income tax expense of the Borrower for such period, (iii) depreciation and amortization expense of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries for such period and (iv) any non-cash expenses or losses of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries for such period that are classified as extraordinary or non-recurring under GAAP; and minus (b) to the extent included in such consolidated net income, extraordinary gains of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries for such period, all computed in accordance with GAAP. "Consolidated Net Worth" means, on any date, the shareholders' equity of the Borrower on such date, determined in accordance with GAAP. "Consolidated Net Revenue" means, for any period, the net revenue of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. "Consolidated Total Assets" means, on any date, the aggregate amount of assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. "Control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto. "Default" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default. "dollars" or "$" refers to lawful money of the United States of America. 5
"Effective Date" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02), which date is July 19, 2004. "Environmental Laws" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material. "Environmental Liability" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing. "Equity Interests" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any such equity interest. "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time. "ERISA Affiliate" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code. "ERISA Event" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the 6
receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA. "Eurodollar", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate (or, in the case of a Competitive Loan, the LIBO Rate). "Event of Default" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII. "Excluded Taxes" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or Issuing Bank or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by any Governmental Authority, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by any Governmental Authority, (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.18(b)), any withholding tax that is imposed by the United States of America on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender that are in effect at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.16(a) and (d) in the case of any Lender, any withholding tax that is imposed by the United States of America on amounts payable to such Lender that are attributable to such Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.16(e). "Existing Credit Agreement" means the Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of January 3, 2000, among the Borrower, certain financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as agent, as amended and in effect on the date hereof. "Federal Funds Effective Rate" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it. "Financial Officer" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower. 7
"Fixed Rate" means, with respect to any Competitive Loan (other than a Eurodollar Competitive Loan), the fixed rate of interest per annum specified by the Lender making such Competitive Loan in its related Competitive Bid. "Fixed Rate Loan" means a Competitive Loan bearing interest at a Fixed Rate. "Foreign Lender" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America applied in a manner consistent with the audited financial statements of the Borrower referred to in Section 3.04. "Governmental Authority" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government. "Guarantee" of or by any Person (the "guarantor") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; provided, that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. For purposes hereof, the amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligations, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guarantor in good faith. "Hazardous Materials" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law. 8
"Hedging Agreement" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies or prices of commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value, or any similar transaction or any combination of such transactions; provided that no phantom stock or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of the Borrower or the Subsidiaries shall be a Hedging Agreement. The amount of the obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Hedging Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that the Borrower or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Hedging Agreement were terminated at such time. "Indebtedness" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (d) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services, (e) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed, (f) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (g) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, and (h) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit, letters of guaranty and banker's acceptances; provided, however, that Indebtedness of any Person shall not include (i) trade payables, (ii) any obligations of such Person incurred in connection with letters of credit, letters of guaranty or similar instruments obtained or created in the ordinary course of business to support obligations of such Person that do not constitute Indebtedness or (iii) endorsements of checks, bills of exchange and other instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business. "Indemnified Taxes" means Taxes (other than Excluded Taxes) and Other Taxes. "Index Debt" means senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Borrower that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement. "Information Memorandum" means the Confidential Information Memorandum dated June 2004 relating to the Borrower and the credit facility established hereby. "Interest Election Request" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.07. 9
"Interest Payment Date" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December, (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period and (c) with respect to any Fixed Rate Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than 90 days' duration (unless otherwise specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request), each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of 90 days' duration after the first day of such Interest Period, and any other dates that are specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request as Interest Payment Dates with respect to such Borrowing. "Interest Period" means (a) with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter, as the Borrower may elect and (b) with respect to any Fixed Rate Borrowing, the period (which shall not be less than 7 days or more than 360 days) commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the date specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request; provided, that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing. "Issuing Bank" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as the issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, and its successors in such capacity as provided in Section 2.05(i) or, with respect to any particular Letter of Credit, such other Lender as shall agree to act as Issuing Bank therefor at the request of the Borrower and with the consent of the Administrative Agent. Each Issuing Bank may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by Affiliates of such Issuing Bank, in which case the term "Issuing Bank" shall include any such Affiliate with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate. References herein to "the Issuing Bank" shall mean, in the case of any Letter of Credit or LC Disbursement, the Issuing Bank that shall have issued such Letter of Credit or made such LC Disbursement. "LC Disbursement" means a payment made by an Issuing Bank to the beneficiary of a Letter of Credit. 10
"LC Exposure" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower at such time. The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time. "Lenders" means (a) the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and (b) any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption, other than, in the case of either of the foregoing, any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption. "Letter of Credit" means any letter of credit issued pursuant to this Agreement. "Leverage Ratio" means, on any date, the ratio of (a) Total Indebtedness at such date to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive quarters ended on or most recently prior to such date. "LIBO Rate" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Page 3750 of the Telerate Service (or on any successor or substitute page of such Service, or any successor to or substitute for such Service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such Service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBO Rate" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period. "Lien" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset. For the purposes of this Agreement, the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any asset which it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such asset. "Loans" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement. "Loan Documents" means this Agreement and any promissory note issued hereunder. 11
"Margin" means, with respect to any Competitive Loan bearing interest at a rate based on the LIBO Rate, the marginal rate of interest, if any, to be added to or subtracted from the LIBO Rate to determine the rate of interest applicable to such Loan, as specified by the Lender making such Loan in its related Competitive Bid. "Margin Stock" shall have the meaning given such term under Regulation U. "Material Adverse Effect" means an event or circumstance that constitutes a material adverse effect on (a) the business, operations or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its material obligations under this Agreement or (c) the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the Borrower of this Agreement. "Material Indebtedness" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit), or obligations in respect of one or more Hedging Agreements, of any one or more of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Hedging Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that the Borrower or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Hedging Agreement were terminated at such time. "Material Subsidiary" means, at any time, (a) each Subsidiary that would be a "significant subsidiary" within the meaning of Rule 1-02 under Regulation S-X promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and (b) each other Subsidiary designated as a "designated subsidiary" by the Borrower. The Borrower will designate one or more Subsidiaries as "designated subsidiaries" when and as necessary in order that there will at no time be two or more Subsidiaries that are not Material Subsidiaries under the preceding sentence but that, if considered together as a single Subsidiary, would cause the total for all such Subsidiaries to exceed 20% of either (i) Consolidated Total Assets at such time or (ii) Consolidated Net Revenue for the period of four calendar quarters ended at or most recently prior to such time. "Maturity Date" means July 20, 2009. "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. "Multiemployer Plan" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA. "Other Taxes" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies (but excluding any tax, charge or levy that constitutes an Excluded Tax) arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement. "Participant" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04. 12
"PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions. "Permitted Encumbrances" means: (a) Liens imposed by law for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies that are not yet due or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04; (b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's, landlord's and other like Liens imposed by law and arising in the ordinary course of business that do not materially detract from the Borrower's assets or materially impair the use thereof in the ordinary course of business or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04; (c) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations; (d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business; (e) liens in favor of the United States of America or any department or agency thereof, or in favor of any state government or political subdivision thereof, or in favor of a prime contractor under a government contract of the United States, or of a state government or political subdivision thereof, in each case resulting from the acceptance of partial, progress, advance or other payments in the ordinary course of business under government contracts of the United States, or of a state government or political subdivision thereof, or subcontracts thereunder; (f) judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default under clause (k) of Article VII; (g) easements, zoning restrictions, rights-of-way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; and (h) other Liens incidental to the conduct of the business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or the ownership of the property or assets of the Borrower or such Subsidiary that do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of such properties or assets or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of the business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary; 13
provided that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness. "Person" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited liability company, a limited liability partnership, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization, including a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof. "Plan" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA. "Prime Rate" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective. "Register" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04. "Regulation U" shall mean Regulation U of the Board, as the same is from time to time in effect, and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof. "Regulation X" shall mean Regulation X of the Board, as the same is from time to time in effect, and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof. "Related Parties" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates. "Required Lenders" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time; provided that, for purposes of declaring the Loans to be due and payable pursuant to Article VII, and for all purposes after the Loans become due and payable pursuant to Article VII and the Commitments expire or terminate, the outstanding Competitive Loans of the Lenders shall be included in their respective Revolving Credit Exposures in determining the Required Lenders. "Revolving Credit Exposure" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans and its LC Exposure at such time. "Revolving Loan" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.01. "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. 14
"Second Amendment Effective Date" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Second Amendment and Restatement Agreement dated as of December 8, 2005, among the Borrower, certain Lenders and the Administrative Agent. The Second Amendment Effective Date is December 8, 2005. "Securitization Transaction" means any transfer by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of accounts receivable or interests therein (a) to a trust, partnership, corporation or other entity, which transfer is funded in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by the incurrence or issuance by the transferee or any successor transferee of Indebtedness or securities that are to receive payments from, or that represent interests in, the cash flow derived from such accounts receivable or interests, or (b) directly to one or more investors or other purchasers. The amount of any Securitization Transaction shall be deemed at any time to be the aggregate principal or stated amount of the Indebtedness or other securities referred to in the preceding sentence or, if there shall be no such principal or stated amount, the uncollected amount of the accounts receivable or interests therein transferred to the ultimate investors or other purchasers pursuant to such Securitization Transaction net of any such accounts receivable that have been written off as uncollectible. "Statutory Reserve Rate" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage. "subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person (the "parent") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent. "Subsidiary" means any subsidiary of the Borrower. "Syndication Agent" means Wachovia Bank, National Association, in its capacity as syndication agent hereunder. 15
"Taxes" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority. "Total Indebtedness" means all Indebtedness of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied. "Transactions" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement, the borrowing of Loans hereunder and the use of the proceeds thereof. "Type", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, the Alternate Base Rate or, in the case of a Competitive Loan or Borrowing, the LIBO Rate or a Fixed Rate. "USA Patriot Act" means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001. "Withdrawal Liability" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA. SECTION 1.02. Classification of Loans and Borrowings. For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Loan") or by Class and Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Revolving Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Borrowing") or by Class and Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing"). SECTION 1.03. Terms Generally. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed 16
to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights. SECTION 1.04. Accounting Terms; GAAP. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; provided that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith. ARTICLE II The Credits SECTION 2.01. Commitments. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (b) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans exceeding the total Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans. SECTION 2.02. Loans and Borrowings. (a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. Each Competitive Loan shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.04. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; provided that the Commitments and Competitive Bids of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required. (b) Subject to Section 2.13, (i) each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith, and (ii) each Competitive Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Eurodollar Loans or Fixed Rate Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; provided that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and shall not be inconsistent with 17
the duty of such Lender under Section 2.18(a) to minimize amounts payable by the Borrower under Section 2.14 or 2.16. (c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000. At the time that each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000; provided that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments. Each Competitive Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $25,000,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time; provided that there shall not at any time be more than a total of 10 Eurodollar Revolving Borrowings outstanding. (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date. SECTION 2.03. Requests for Revolving Borrowings. To request a Revolving Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day of the proposed Borrowing; provided that any such notice of an ABR Revolving Borrowing to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.05(e) may be given not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by a Financial Officer of the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02: (i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing; (ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day; (iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; (iv) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and (v) the location and number of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall be an account in the United States of America. 18
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing. SECTION 2.04. Competitive Bid Procedure. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, from time to time during the Availability Period the Borrower may request Competitive Bids and may (but shall not have any obligation to) accept Competitive Bids and borrow Competitive Loans; provided that the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans at any time shall not exceed the total Commitments. To request Competitive Bids, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, four Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing and, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing; provided that the Borrower may submit up to (but not more than) three Competitive Bid Requests on the same day, but a Competitive Bid Request shall not be made within five Business Days after the date of any previous Competitive Bid Request, unless any and all such previous Competitive Bid Requests shall have been withdrawn or all Competitive Bids received in response thereto rejected. Each such telephonic Competitive Bid Request shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Competitive Bid Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by a Financial Officer of the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Competitive Bid Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02: (i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing; (ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day; (iii) whether such Borrowing is to be a Eurodollar Borrowing or a Fixed Rate Borrowing; (iv) the Interest Period to be applicable to such Borrowing, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and (v) the location and number of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.06. Promptly following receipt of a Competitive Bid Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of the details thereof by telecopy, inviting the Lenders to submit Competitive Bids. (b) Each Lender may (but shall not have any obligation to) make one or more Competitive Bids to the Borrower in response to a Competitive Bid Request. Each 19
Competitive Bid by a Lender must be in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and must be received by the Administrative Agent by telecopy, in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing, not later than 9:30 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing, and in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 9:30 a.m., New York City time, on the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing. Competitive Bids that do not conform substantially to the form approved by the Administrative Agent may be rejected by the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall notify the applicable Lender as promptly as practicable. Each Competitive Bid shall specify (i) the principal amount (which shall be a minimum of $5,000,000 and an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and which may equal the entire principal amount of the Competitive Borrowing requested by the Borrower) of the Competitive Loan or Loans that the Lender is willing to make, (ii) the Competitive Bid Rate or Rates at which the Lender is prepared to make such Loan or Loans (expressed as a percentage rate per annum in the form of a decimal to no more than four decimal places) and (iii) the Interest Period applicable to each such Loan and the last day thereof. (c) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower by telecopy of the Competitive Bid Rate and the principal amount specified in each Competitive Bid and the identity of the Lender that shall have made such Competitive Bid. (d) Subject only to the provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower may accept or reject any Competitive Bid. The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone, confirmed by telecopy in a form approved by the Administrative Agent, whether and to what extent it has decided to accept or reject each Competitive Bid, in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing, not later than 10:30 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Competitive Borrowing, and in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 10:30 a.m., New York City time, on the proposed date of the Competitive Borrowing; provided that (i) the failure of the Borrower to give such notice shall be deemed to be a rejection of each Competitive Bid, (ii) the Borrower shall not accept a Competitive Bid made at a particular Competitive Bid Rate if the Borrower rejects a Competitive Bid that is for the same Interest Period made at a lower Competitive Bid Rate, (iii) the aggregate amount of the Competitive Bids accepted by the Borrower shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the requested Competitive Borrowing specified in the related Competitive Bid Request, (iv) to the extent necessary to comply with clause (iii) above, the Borrower may accept Competitive Bids at the same Competitive Bid Rate in part, which acceptance, in the case of multiple Competitive Bids at such Competitive Bid Rate, shall be made pro rata in accordance with the amount of each such Competitive Bid, and (v) except pursuant to clause (iv) above, no Competitive Bid shall be accepted for a Competitive Loan unless such Competitive Loan is in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 and an integral multiple of $1,000,000; provided further that if a Competitive Loan must be in an amount less than $5,000,000 because of the provisions of clause (iv) above, such Competitive Loan may be for a minimum of $1,000,000 or any integral multiple thereof, and in calculating the pro rata allocation of acceptances of portions of multiple Competitive Bids at a particular Competitive Bid Rate pursuant to clause (iv) the amounts shall be 20
rounded to integral multiples of $1,000,000 in a manner determined by the Borrower. A notice given by the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph shall be irrevocable. (e) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each bidding Lender by telecopy whether or not its Competitive Bid has been accepted (and, if so, the amount and Competitive Bid Rate so accepted), and each successful bidder will thereupon become bound, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, to make the Competitive Loan in respect of which its Competitive Bid has been accepted. (f) If the Administrative Agent shall elect to submit a Competitive Bid in its capacity as a Lender, it shall submit such Competitive Bid directly to the Borrower at least one quarter of an hour earlier than the time by which the other Lenders are required to submit their Competitive Bids to the Administrative Agent pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. SECTION 2.05. Letters of Credit. (a) General. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit for its own account, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank; provided that no Letter of Credit shall be issued at any time after the fifth Business Day before the end of the Availability Period. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by the Borrower to, or entered into by the Borrower with, the Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control. (b) Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions. To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the Issuing Bank) to the Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent (reasonably in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension but in no event less than three Business Days unless the Issuing Bank agrees to a shorter time) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by the Issuing Bank, the Borrower also shall submit a letter of credit application on the Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (i) the LC Exposure shall not exceed $500,000,000 and (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans shall not exceed the total Commitments. 21
(c) Expiration Date. Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of the issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension) or (ii) the date that is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date; provided that at the request of the Borrower any Letter of Credit may contain customary "evergreen" provisions pursuant to which such Letter of Credit will, in the absence of a notice given by the Issuing Bank, be automatically renewed (but in no event beyond the date that is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date) for successive one- year periods. (d) Participations. By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the Issuing Bank or the Lenders, the Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from the Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to make ABR Revolving Loans as provided in paragraph (e) below in the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of each LC Disbursement made by the Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in respect of Letters of Credit and to make Revolving Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. (e) Reimbursement. If the Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to such LC Disbursement not later than 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on (i) the Business Day that the Borrower receives notice of such Letter of Credit, if such notice is received prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the day of receipt, or (ii) the Business Day immediately following the day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is not received prior to such time on the day of receipt; provided that, if the Borrower fails to make such payment when due, such payment shall be financed with an ABR Revolving Borrowing in an equivalent amount and the Borrower's obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR Revolving Borrowing. The Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the payment then due from the Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage of any ABR Revolving Borrowing to be made to finance such LC Disbursement. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent its Applicable Percentage of such ABR Revolving Borrowing, in the manner provided in Section 2.06, and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Issuing Bank the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the 22
Administrative Agent of any payment from the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Lenders have made Loans pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders (as prepayments of such Loans) and the Issuing Bank as their interests may appear. (f) Obligations Absolute. The Borrower's obligation to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) subject to the proviso set forth at the end of the immediately following sentence, payment by the Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, the Borrower's obligations hereunder. None of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders or the Issuing Bank, or any of their Related Parties, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of the Issuing Bank; provided that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse the Issuing Bank from liability to the Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by the Borrower that are caused by the Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof. The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or wilful misconduct on the part of the Issuing Bank (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), the Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. (g) Disbursement Procedures. The Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit. The Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such demand for payment and whether the Issuing Bank has made or will make an LC Disbursement thereunder; provided that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse the Issuing Bank and the Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement. 23
(h) Interim Interest. If the Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that the Borrower reimburses such LC Disbursement or such LC Disbursement is reimbursed with the proceeds of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section to reimburse the Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment. (i) Replacement of an Issuing Bank. An Issuing Bank may be replaced at any time by written agreement among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the replaced Issuing Bank and the successor Issuing Bank. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of any such replacement of an Issuing Bank. At the time any such replacement shall become effective, the Borrower shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the replaced Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.11(b). From and after the effective date of any such replacement, (i) the successor Issuing Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit to be issued thereafter and (ii) references herein to the term "Issuing Bank" shall be deemed to refer to such successor or to any previous Issuing Bank, or to such successor and all previous Issuing Banks, as the context shall require. After the replacement of an Issuing Bank hereunder, the replaced Issuing Bank shall remain a party hereto or a beneficiary of the provisions of this Section 2.05 and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such replacement, but shall not be required to issue additional Letters of Credit. (j) Cash Collateralization. If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Borrower receives notice from the Administrative Agent acting at the direction of the Required Lenders (or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total LC Exposure) demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in cash equal to the LC Exposure as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; provided that the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of Article VII. Such deposit shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account (to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Section). Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent, in cash or cash equivalents and at the Borrower's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or 24
profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse each Issuing Bank for LC Disbursements for which it has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower for the LC Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated (but subject to the consent of Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total LC Exposure), be applied to satisfy other obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower on the Business Day after all Events of Default have been cured or waived and the Administrative Agent shall have received a notice to such effect from the Borrower. (k) Issuing Bank Reports. Unless otherwise agreed by Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank shall report in writing to Administrative Agent (i) on or prior to each Business Day on which such Issuing Bank issues, amends, renews or extends any Letter of Credit, the date of such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension and the aggregate face amount of the Letter of Credit issued, amended, renewed or extended by it and outstanding after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (and whether the amount thereof has changed), it being understood that such Issuing Bank shall not effect any issuance, renewal, extension or amendment resulting in an increase in the amount of any Letter of Credit without first obtaining written confirmation from Administrative Agent that such increase is then permitted under this Agreement, (ii) on each Business Day on which such Issuing Bank makes an LC Disbursement, the date and amount of such LC Disbursement, (iii) on any Business Day on which Borrower fails to reimburse an LC Disbursement required to be reimbursed to such Issuing Bank on such day, the date of such failure and the amount of such LC Disbursement and (iv) on any other Business Day, such other information as Administrative Agent shall reasonably request as to the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank and outstanding on such Business Day. SECTION 2.06. Funding of Borrowings. (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 2:00 p.m., New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Borrower by crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account designated by the Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request or Competitive Bid Request by 4:00 p.m., New York City time, on the funding date; provided that ABR Revolving Loans made to finance reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.05(e) shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Issuing Bank. (b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such 25
assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to such Loan. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing. SECTION 2.07. Interest Elections. (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Competitive Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued. (b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by a Financial Officer of the Borrower. (c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02: (i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing); (ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day; (iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and 26
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period". If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. (d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing. (e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto. SECTION 2.08. Termination of Commitments; Reductions of Commitments. (a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date. (b) The Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; provided that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.10, the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans would exceed the total Commitments. (c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; provided that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments 27
shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments. SECTION 2.09. Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt. (a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan on the Maturity Date and (ii) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Loan made by such Lender on the last day of the Interest Period applicable to such Loan. (b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder. (c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof. (d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; provided that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. (e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns). SECTION 2.10. Prepayment of Loans. (a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section; provided that the Borrower shall not have the right to prepay any Competitive Loan without the prior consent of the Lender thereof. (b) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a 28
Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment or (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; provided that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.08, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.08. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02. Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.12. SECTION 2.11. Fees. (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the date of this Agreement to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates; provided that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such facility fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued facility fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year, on any date prior to the Maturity Date on which the Commitments terminate and on the Maturity Date, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; provided that any facility fees accruing after the Maturity Date shall be payable on demand. All facility fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). (b) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender, a utilization fee at the rate of 0.125% per annum on the Revolving Credit Exposure of such Lender (i) for each day, from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which the Commitment of such Lender is terminated and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure, on which the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Exposures exceeds 50% of the aggregate amount of the Commitments and (ii) for each day after the termination of the Commitments on which there are Revolving Credit Exposures. Accrued utilization fees shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year, on any date prior to the Maturity Date on which the Commitments terminate and on the Maturity Date; provided that any utilization fees accruing after the termination of the Commitments shall be payable on demand. All utilization fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). 29
(c) The Borrower agrees to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a participation fee with respect to its participations in Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate used to determine the interest rate applicable to Eurodollar Revolving Loans, on the average daily amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which such Lender's Commitment terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure, and (ii) to each Issuing Bank a fronting fee, which shall accrue at the rate or rates per annum separately agreed upon between the Borrower and such Issuing Bank on the average daily amount of the LC Exposure attributable to Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date of termination of the Commitments and the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure, as well as such Issuing Bank's standard fees with respect to the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder. Participation fees and fronting fees accrued through and including the last day of March, June, September and December of each year shall be payable on the third Business Day following such last day; provided that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. Any other fees payable to the Issuing Banks pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable within 10 days after demand. All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). (d) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon in writing between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. (e) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of facility fees and utilization fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances absent error in the calculation or payment thereof. SECTION 2.12. Interest. (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate. (b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest (i) in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Loan, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part plus the Applicable Rate, or (ii) in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Loan, at the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part plus (or minus, as applicable) the Margin applicable to such Loan. (c) Each Fixed Rate Loan shall bear interest at the Fixed Rate applicable to such Loan. 30
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section. (e) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and, in the case of Revolving Loans, upon termination of the Commitments; provided that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion. (f) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. SECTION 2.13. Alternate Rate of Interest. If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing: (a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period; or (b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders (or, in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Loan, the Lender that is required to make such Loan) that the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period; then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances 31
giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be ineffective, (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing and (iii) any request by the Borrower for a Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing shall be ineffective; provided that (A) if the circumstances giving rise to such notice do not affect all the Lenders, then requests by the Borrower for Eurodollar Competitive Borrowings may be made to Lenders that are not affected thereby and (B) if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect only one Type of Borrowings, then the other Type of Borrowings shall be permitted. SECTION 2.14. Increased Costs. Subject to Section 2.18, (a) If any Change in Law shall: (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender or Issuing Bank (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate); or (ii) impose on any Lender or Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense, affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans or Fixed Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein; and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender or Issuing Bank in an amount that such Lender or Issuing Bank deems to be material of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or Issuing Bank hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), other than any increase in costs resulting from (i) Excluded Taxes or (ii) Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes to which Section 2.16 is applicable, then the Borrower will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered. (b) If any Lender or Issuing Bank determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments hereunder, the Loans made by or held by, or participations in Letters of Credit acquired or held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank such additional amount or 32
amounts as will compensate such Lender or the Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered. (c) A certificate of a Lender or Issuing Bank setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, and explaining in reasonable detail the method by which such amount or amounts shall have been determined, shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; provided that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions unless the Lender or Issuing Bank gives notice to the Borrower to compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section within 180 days after the date such Lender or Issuing Bank knows an event has occurred pursuant to which such Lender or Issuing Bank will seek such compensation. (e) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, a Lender shall not be entitled to compensation pursuant to this Section (i) in respect of any Competitive Loan if the Change in Law that would otherwise entitle it to such compensation shall have been publicly announced prior to submission of the Competitive Bid pursuant to which such Loan was made or (ii) if it is not at the time the general policy or practice of the Lender to demand compensation in similar circumstances in similar credit agreements. SECTION 2.15. Break Funding Payments. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.10(b) and is revoked in accordance therewith), (d) the failure to borrow any Competitive Loan after accepting the Competitive Bid to make such Loan, or (e) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.18, then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurodollar Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for 33
such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section and explaining in reasonable detail the method by which such amount or amounts shall have been determined shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. SECTION 2.16. Taxes. (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; provided that if the Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Issuing Bank or Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law. (b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law. (c) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Bank within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest, additions to tax and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or Issuing Bank, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or Issuing Bank, shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall not be liable for the reimbursement of any interest, penalties or expenses arising from the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of the Administrative Agent or any Lender in taking any action it was required to take including, but not limited to, filing any tax return or report in a timely manner. (d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such 34
payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. (e) Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation, if any, as shall be prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower to permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate. (f) If the Administrative Agent or a Lender determines that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.16, it shall pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 2.16 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); provided, that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person. SECTION 2.17. Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Setoffs. (a) The Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of LC Disbursements, or of amounts payable under Section 2.14, 2.15 or 2.16, or otherwise) prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 1111 Fannin Street, Houston, Texas, except payments to be made directly to an Issuing Bank as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in dollars. 35
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed LC Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursement then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties. (c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or participations in LC Disbursements resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and participations in the LC Disbursements of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements; provided that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation. (d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or an Issuing Bank hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. 36
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(d), 2.06(b) or 2.17(d), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid. SECTION 2.18. Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders. (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.14 or 2.16, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment. (b) If (i) any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, (ii) the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, (iii) any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder or (iv) in connection with any proposed amendment, modification, waiver or consent, the consent of the Required Lenders has been obtained but the consent of a Lender whose consent is required shall not have been obtained, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement (other than any outstanding Competitive Loans held by it) to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); provided that (x) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld or delayed, (y) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans (other than Competitive Loans), accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (z) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.14 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.16, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply. 37
ARTICLE III Representations and Warranties The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders that: SECTION 3.01. Organization; Powers. The Borrower is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.02. Authorization; Enforceability. The Transactions are within the Borrower's corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law. SECTION 3.03. Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts. The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate any applicable law or regulation or the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of the Borrower or any order of any Governmental Authority, (c) will not result in a material violation of or default under any indenture or other material agreement or instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries or their assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any material Liens on any material assets of the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries. SECTION 3.04. Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change. (a) The Borrower has heretofore furnished to the Lenders (i) its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, reported on by independent public accountants, and (ii) its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income and cash flows as of and for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005, certified by its chief financial officer. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP, subject to year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes in the case of the statements referred to in clause (ii) above. 38
(b) As of the Second Amendment Effective Date, since December 31, 2004, there has been no Material Adverse Effect and there has been no event or circumstance that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.05. Properties. (a) The Borrower and each Material Subsidiary has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real and personal property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title or interests as would not, individually or in aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. (b) The Borrower and each Subsidiary owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, except where the failure so to own, or so to be licensed, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and to the knowledge of any Financial Officer of the Borrower after due inquiry, the use thereof by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.06. Litigation and Environmental Matters. (a) Except as disclosed in the Borrower's periodic reports filed prior to the date hereof under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, there are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of any Financial Officer of the Borrower after due inquiry, threatened against the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries (i) that could reasonably be expected to be adversely determined and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) that involve this Agreement or the Transactions. (b) Except as disclosed in the Borrower's periodic reports filed prior to the date hereof under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Borrower nor any of its Material Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received written notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability. SECTION 3.07. Compliance with Laws and Agreements. The Borrower and each Material Subsidiary is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where such compliance is being contested in good faith through appropriate proceedings or except where the failure, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Borrower nor any of its Material Subsidiaries is in default with respect to any of its material obligations under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon it or its property which, 39
individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.08. Federal Reserve Regulations. (a) Neither the Borrower nor any of the Subsidiaries is engaged principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock. (b) No part of the proceeds of the Loans has been or will be used, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, for any purpose that entails a violation of the provisions of the Regulations of the Board, including, without limitation, Regulation U or X thereof. Not more than 25% of the assets subject to the restrictions of Section 6.01, valued in accordance with Regulation U, will at any time consist of Margin Stock. SECTION 3.09. Investment and Holding Company Status. Neither the Borrower nor any of the Subsidiaries is (a) an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940 or (b) a "holding company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. SECTION 3.10. Taxes. The Borrower and each Subsidiary has timely filed or caused to be filed or received an extension of the time to file all tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves to the extent required to do so in accordance with GAAP or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.11. ERISA. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. The Borrower and the Subsidiaries have not incurred any material accumulated funding deficiency within the meaning of ERISA. As used in this Section, "material" means the measure of a matter of significance that shall be determined as being an amount equal to 10% of Consolidated Net Worth. SECTION 3.12. Disclosure. Neither the Information Memorandum nor any of the other written reports, financial statements, certificates or other written information furnished or to be furnished by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered or to be delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) by the Borrower contains or will contain any material misstatement of fact or omits or will omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that, with respect to any projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such 40
information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time. ARTICLE IV Conditions SECTION 4.01. [Intentionally Omitted] SECTION 4.02. Each Credit Event. The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing (other than a Borrowing made to reimburse an Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.05(d) and (e)), and of each Issuing Bank to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions: (a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in this Agreement (other than those set forth in Sections 3.04(b) and 3.06) shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing or the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable. (b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Each Borrowing and each issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section. ARTICLE V Affirmative Covenants Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full, and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that: SECTION 5.01. Financial Statements; Ratings Change and Other Information. The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender: (a) within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all 41
material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and the consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; (b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes; (c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, and (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Section 6.03; (d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K (or any substitute or successor forms) filed by the Borrower with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of said Commission, or distributed by the Borrower to its shareholders generally, as the case may be; (e) promptly after Moody's or S&P shall have announced a change in the rating established or deemed to have been established for the Index Debt, written notice of such rating change; (f) promptly following a request therefor, all documentation and other information that any Lender reasonably requests as necessary in order for it to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the USA Patriot Act; and (g) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request. Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section shall be deemed to have been delivered if such information, or one or more annual or quarterly reports containing such information, shall have been posted by the Administrative Agent on an IntraLinks or similar site to which the Lenders have been granted access or shall be available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at http://www.sec.gov and, in either case, a confirming electronic correspondence shall have been delivered or caused to be delivered to the Lenders providing notice of such posting or availability; provided that the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such information to any Lender that requests 42
such delivery. Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section may also be delivered by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent. SECTION 5.02. Notices of Material Events. The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender written notice of the following promptly after any Financial Officer becomes aware thereof: (a) the occurrence of any Default; (b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary that could reasonably be expected to be adversely determined and, if adversely determined, to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding $50,000,000. Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Borrower setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto. SECTION 5.03. Existence; Conduct of Business. The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Material Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of its business except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; provided that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger or consolidation of the Borrower permitted under Section 6.02 or any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution of a Subsidiary that is not otherwise prohibited by the terms of this Agreement. SECTION 5.04. Payment of Obligations. The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Material Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the Borrower or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 5.05. Maintenance of Properties; Insurance. The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Material Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (b) maintain, with financially sound 43
and reputable insurance companies, insurance or maintain a self-insurance program in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies of similar size and financial strength engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations (including without limitation by the maintenance of adequate self-insurance reserves to the extent customary among such companies). SECTION 5.06. Books and Records; Inspection Rights. The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Material Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities. The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Material Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, at their own expense if an Event of Default has not occurred and is continuing, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers, all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested. SECTION 5.07. Compliance with Laws. The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Material Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually and in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 5.08. Use of Proceeds. The proceeds of the Loans will be used for the purposes referred to in the preamble to this Agreement. ARTICLE VI Negative Covenants Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that: SECTION 6.01. Liens. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, or assign or sell any income or revenues (including accounts receivable) or rights in respect of any thereof, except: (a) any Lien on any property or asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary existing on the date hereof; provided that (i) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (ii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date hereof and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof that is secured by such Lien as of the date hereof; (b) Permitted Encumbrances; 44
(c) any Lien existing on any property or asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Borrower or any Subsidiary or existing on any property or asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; provided that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (iii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date of such acquisition or the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary, as the case may be, and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof that is secured by such Lien as of such date; (d) any Lien on real property or fixed or capital assets acquired, constructed or improved by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof that is secured by such Lien; provided that (i) such Lien and the Indebtedness secured thereby are incurred prior to or within one year after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement, (ii) the Indebtedness secured thereby is incurred to pay, and does not exceed, the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such fixed or capital assets and (iii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (e) any Lien on property or assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in favor of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (f) Securitization Transactions (and Liens deemed to exist in connection therewith) in an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000,000; (g) Liens arising from any synthetic lease transaction pursuant to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a lessee; (h) Liens on or pledges of cash or cash equivalents securing the obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary under or in connection with any Hedging Agreement, so long as the aggregate amount of all cash or cash equivalents subject to such Liens or pledges does not exceed $25,000,000 at any time; (i) Liens created, assumed or existing in connection with financings the interest payable in respect of which is exempt from Federal income taxation under Section 103 of the Code or any successor provision; (j) any Lien arising out of the refinancing, extension, renewal or refunding of Indebtedness secured by any Lien permitted by any of the foregoing paragraphs, provided that (i) such Indebtedness is not secured by any additional assets unless such additional Liens are otherwise permitted pursuant to this Section, and (ii) the amount of such Indebtedness secured by such Lien is not 45
increased (it being agreed that any such refinancing, extension, renewal or refunding of Indebtedness incurred under a basket expressed as a dollar amount in any of the foregoing paragraphs of this Section will be applied against and reduce the amount available under such basket); and (k) in addition to the Liens permitted pursuant to any of the foregoing subsections, other Liens securing Indebtedness in an amount not greater than 20% of Consolidated Net Worth at any time. SECTION 6.02. Fundamental Changes. The Borrower will not merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions and including by means of any merger or sale of capital stock or otherwise) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired), or liquidate or dissolve, except that, if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, any Person may merge with or into or consolidate with the Borrower if (i) the Borrower is the surviving Person and (ii) after giving effect to such transaction no Default shall exist. SECTION 6.03. Leverage Ratio. The Borrower will not permit the Leverage Ratio at any time to exceed 3.00 to 1.00. ARTICLE VII Events of Default If any of the following events ("Events of Default") shall occur: (a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any reimbursement obligation in respect of any LC Disbursement when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise; (b) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five Business Days; (c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; 46
(d) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02 or 5.03 (but only with respect to the Borrower's existence) or in Article VI; (e) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after written notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender); (f) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable (subject to any applicable grace period); (g) any event or condition occurs and, while continuing, results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits (subject to any applicable grace period) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; provided that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness or to Capital Leases that terminate as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of or a casualty or condemnation affecting the property or assets subject thereto; (h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered; (i) the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed 47
against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; (j) the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due; (k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $75,000,000 and not covered by insurance shall be rendered against the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 60 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, vacated or bonded pending appeal, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon material assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to enforce one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $75,000,000; (l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; or (m) a Change in Control shall have occurred; then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by written notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower. ARTICLE VIII The Agents Each of the Lenders and each Issuing Bank hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take 48
such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder. The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing as directed by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or wilful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent 49
accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts. The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent. Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of the Borrower (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, appoint, with the consent of the Borrower (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder. It is agreed that the Syndication Agent and the Co-Documentation Agents shall, in their capacities as such, have no duties or responsibilities under this Agreement. 50
ARTICLE IX Miscellaneous SECTION 9.01. Notices. (a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows: (i) if to the Borrower, to it at 101 Prospect Avenue, N.W., Cleveland, OH 44115, Attention of Vice President and Treasurer (Telecopy No. (216) 566-2984) and Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer (Telecopy No. (216) 566-2947) with a copy to the General Counsel (Telecopy No. (216) 566-1708); (ii) if to the Administrative Agent or JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in its capacity as an Issuing Bank, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, Loan and Agency Services Group, 1111 Fannin Street, 10th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention of Kelly Collins (Telecopy No. (713) 427-6307), with a copy to JPMorgan Chase Bank, 270 Park Avenue, 4th Floor, New York, New York 10017 attention of Stacey Haimes (Telecopy No. (212) 270-5100); (iii) if to any other Issuing Bank, to it at such address (or telecopy number) as it shall have provided to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower); and (iv) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire (a copy of each of which the Administrative Agent shall provide to the Borrower). (b) Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; provided that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; provided that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications. (c) Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to be effective on the date of receipt. SECTION 9.02. Waivers; Amendments. (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, 51
preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time. (b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the Required Lenders or by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; provided that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.17(b) or (c), or any other provision of this Agreement, in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, or (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; provided further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent. SECTION 9.03. Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver. (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents and their Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Agents, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by each Issuing Bank in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Agents, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, related to the enforcement or protection of its rights under this Agreement in connection with any actual or reasonably anticipated Default. 52
(b) The Borrower shall indemnify the Agents, the Issuing Banks and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "Indemnitee") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by any Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; provided that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses have resulted from the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of such Indemnitee. (c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent or any Issuing Bank under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent or such Issuing Bank, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; provided that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent or such Issuing Bank, in its capacity as such. (d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, no party hereto shall assert, and each party hereto hereby waives, any claim against any other party, on any theory of liability, for special, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. (e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor accompanied by the appropriate invoice or other detail supporting such amounts. SECTION 9.04. Successors and Assigns. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of an Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), except that (i) the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written 53
consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of an Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement. (b)(i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitments and the Loans and participations in LC Disbursements at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of: (A) the Borrower; provided that no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund (as defined below) or, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee; and (B) the Administrative Agent and each Issuing Bank; provided that no consent of the Administrative Agent shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund (as defined below). (ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions: (A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $10,000,000 or, if smaller, the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment, unless the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall otherwise consent, provided that in the event of concurrent assignments to two or more assignees that are Affiliates of one another, or to two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor or by affiliated investment advisors, all such concurrent assignments shall be aggregated in determining compliance with this subsection; (B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, provided that this clause shall not apply to rights in respect of outstanding Competitive Loans. (C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; provided that in the event of concurrent assignments to two or 54
more assignees that are Affiliates of one another, or to two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor or by affiliated investment advisors, only one such fee shall be payable; and (D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire (a copy of which shall promptly be provided to the Borrower). For the purposes of this Section 9.04(b), the term "Approved Fund" has the following meaning: "Approved Fund" means, with respect to any Lender that is a fund which invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit, any other fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit and is managed by the same investment advisor as such Lender or by an Affiliate of such investment advisor. (iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 9.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section. (iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amount of the Loans and LC Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "Register"). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower, any Issuing Bank and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. (v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the 55
Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph. (c)(i) Any Lender may, without notice to or the consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Banks, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "Participant") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); provided that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; provided that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15 and 2.16 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.08 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.16(f) as though it were a Lender. (ii) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.14, 2.15 or 2.16 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.16 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.16(f) as though it were a Lender. (d) Any Lender, without notice to or the consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Banks, may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; provided that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto. (e) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Assumption, the assigning Lender thereunder and the assignee thereunder shall be deemed to confirm to 56
and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) such assigning Lender warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned thereby free and clear of any adverse claim and that its Commitments and the outstanding balances of its Loans, in each case without giving effect to assignments thereof that have not become effective, are as set forth in such Assignment and Assumption; (ii) except as set forth in clause (i) above, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto, or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of any of the foregoing, or the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or under any other Loan Document or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto; (iii) each of the assignee and the assignor represents and warrants that it is legally authorized to enter into such Assignment and Assumption; (iv) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of any amendments or consents entered into prior to the date of such Assignment and Assumption and copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Assumption; (v) such assignee will independently and without reliance upon the Agents, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Agents to take such action as agents on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents as are delegated to them by the terms hereof and thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender. SECTION 9.05. Survival. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrower herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof. 57
SECTION 9.06. Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement. SECTION 9.07. Severability. Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction. SECTION 9.08. Right of Setoff. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any of and all the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have. Any Lender of Affiliate of such Lender exercising any of its rights pursuant to this Section shall provide notice of the same to the Borrower promptly after exercising the same; provided, however, the failure to give such notice shall not effect the validity of such setoff. SECTION 9.09. Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process. (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York. (b) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally 58
agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against the Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction. (c) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court. (d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law. SECTION 9.10. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION. SECTION 9.11. Headings. Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement. SECTION 9.12. Confidentiality. Each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such 59
Information confidential) on a "need to know" basis solely in connection with the Transactions, (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, provided, however, that, to the extent legally permitted, the Borrower is promptly notified in order that it may seek a protective order or take other appropriate action, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) to the extent reasonably required or reasonably deemed advisable in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower. For the purposes of this Section, "Information" means all information received from the Borrower relating to the Borrower or its business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower; provided that, in the case of information received from the Borrower after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified as confidential at the time of delivery or delivered under circumstances that would cause a reasonable person to believe such information to be confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information. SECTION 9.13. Interest Rate Limitation. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable law (collectively the "Charges"), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "Maximum Rate") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender. SECTION 9.14. USA Patriot Act. Each Lender hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information 60
includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrower in accordance with the USA Patriot Act. SECTION 9.15. Waiver of Notice Period. Each Lender that is a party to the Existing Credit Agreement hereby waives the two business days notice requirement for termination of the commitments as set forth in Section 2.5 of the Existing Credit Agreement and each such Lender agrees that upon the effectiveness of this Agreement, the Existing Credit Agreement shall be deemed terminated. 61
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY By /s/ Sean P. Hennessy ------------------------------------ Name: Sean P. Hennessy Title: Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, individually and as Administrative Agent, by /s/ Stacey Haimes ------------------------------------ Name: Stacey L. Haimes Title: Vice President WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, individually and as Syndication Agent by /s/ Barbara Van Meerten ------------------------------------ Name: Barbara Van Meerten Title: Director BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. by /s/ Colleen M. Briscoe ------------------------------------ Name: Colleen M. Briscoe Title: Vice President CITICORP USA, INC. by /s/ Carrie Stead ------------------------------------ Name: Carrie Stead Title: Vice President, Citicorp, N. A. - Chicago 62
NATIONAL CITY BANK by /s/ Robert S. Coleman ------------------------------------ Name: Robert S. Coleman Title: Senior Vice President THE BANK OF NEW YORK by /s/ Kenneth R. McDonnell ------------------------------------ Name: Kenneth R. McDonnell Title: Vice President KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION by /s/ David J. Wechter ------------------------------------ Name: David J. Wechter Title: Vice President SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION by /s/ Yas Imai ------------------------------------ Name: Yas Imai Title: Senior Vice President SUN TRUST BANK by /s/ William C. Humphries ------------------------------------ Name: William C. Humphries Title: Managing Director 63
WELLS FARGO BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION by /s/ Steven M. Buehler ------------------------------------ Name: Steven M. Buehler Title: Vice President by /s/ Scott Miller ------------------------------------ Name: Scott Miller Title: Vice President ABN AMRO BANK N.V. by /s/ Nancy W.Lanzoni ------------------------------------ Name: Nancy Lanzoni Title: Assistant Vice President by /s/ Michele Costello ------------------------------------ Name: Michele Costello Title: Assistant Vice President FIFTH THIRD BANK by /s/ Roy C. Lanctot ------------------------------------ Name: Roy C. Lanctot Title: Vice President 64
BANCO SANTANDER CENTRAL HISPANO, S.A. NEW YORK BRANCH by /s/ Luis Pastor ------------------------------------ Name: Luis Pastor Title: Vice President by /s/ D. Rodriguez ------------------------------------ Name: D. Rodriguez Title: Vice President 65


