FILE:SHW/SHW-8K-20061023100244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01.
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
.
     The Sherwin-Williams Company ("Sherwin-Williams") announced that on October 18, 2006, the Board of Directors appointed John G. Morikis to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer of Sherwin-Williams effective on that date. Mr. Morikis, 43, has served as President, Paint Stores Group, of Sherwin-Williams since October 1999 and has been employed with Sherwin-Williams since 1984. Mr. Morikis will report to Christopher M. Connor, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, of Sherwin-Williams. The information with respect to changes to Mr. Morikis' compensation is provided under Item 5.02 below and is incorporated herein by reference.
     Also, on October 18, 2006, the Board of Directors approved the following action of the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors regarding the compensation payable to Sherwin-Williams' non-employee directors. Effective January 1, 2007, the cash compensation payable to Sherwin-Williams' non-employee directors will be as follows:
     All retainer amounts will be payable in quarterly installments in advance. All meeting fees will be payable on the date of the meeting.
     In addition, non-employee directors will receive an annual grant of restricted stock valued at approximately $75,000 at the time of the grant pursuant to The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Stock Plan for Nonemployee Directors (the "2006 Stock Plan"). The 2006 Stock Plan was approved by Sherwin-Williams' shareholders at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
 
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
.
     In connection with Mr. Morikis' appointment as President and Chief Operating Officer, the Board of Directors approved the following actions of the Compensation Committee with regard to his compensation:
     The grant of stock options and restricted stock was made under The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan (the "Stock Incentive Plan"). The Stock Incentive Plan was approved by Sherwin-Williams' shareholders at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. A copy of the Stock Incentive Plan was filed as Exhibit 10(b) to Sherwin-Williams' Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 19, 2006, and is incorporated herein by reference. The grant of stock options also was made pursuant to the forms of Stock Option Award, copies of which previously were filed as Exhibits 10(a) and 10(b) to Sherwin-Williams' Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 19, 2006, and is incorporated herein by reference. The grant of restricted stock also was made pursuant to the form of Restricted Stock Grant, a copy of which was previously filed as Exhibit 10(d) to Sherwin-Williams' Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 19, 2006, and is incorporated herein by reference.
     A copy of the press release of Sherwin-Williams announcing Mr. Morikis' appointment as President and Chief Operating Officer is attached as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In addition, under the Management Incentive Plan, the Compensation Committee approved an increase in the maximum annual cash bonus award level for Mr. Connor to 190% of his base salary and approved an increase in the maximum annual cash bonus award for Sean P. Hennessy,
 
Senior Vice President  Finance and Chief Financial Officer, to 150% of his base salary. The increases will be effective for cash bonus awards earned in 2007 and payable in 2008.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
     (d) Exhibits.
          The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99
     CLEVELAND, OHIO, October 19, 2006  The Sherwin-Williams Company (NYSE: SHW) announced today that the Board of Directors has appointed John G. Morikis as President and Chief Operating Officer, effective October 18. Mr. Morikis has held many key positions during his twenty-two year career with Sherwin-Williams, most recently as President of the Paint Stores Group, the Company's largest and fastest growing business segment. During Mr. Morikis' seven-year tenure as President of the Paint Stores Group, the segment has increased from approximately $3 billion dollars in sales through 2,400 company operated paint stores to 2005 sales of nearly $5 billion through more than 3,100 stores throughout North America. Under his leadership, Sherwin-Williams has introduced many innovative products, which have solidified Sherwin-Williams' position as the leading architectural coatings company in North America.
th
     Mr. Morikis, 43, joined Sherwin-Williams in 1984 as a management trainee after graduating from St. Joseph's College with a Bachelor's degree in Business Administration. He also holds a Master's degree in Business. During his career, he has held numerous positions of increasing responsibility in the Paint Stores Group, including President & General Manager, Eastern Division; Senior Vice President  Marketing; and Vice President  Sales, Eastern Division.
     In his new role, Mr. Morikis will be responsible for all operating segments of the Company, which includes the Paint Stores Group, the Consumer Group and the Global Group. Commenting on Mr. Morikis' appointment, Christopher M. Connor, Chairman and CEO, said, "We are extremely pleased that our Board of Directors has appointed John as our President and Chief Operating Officer. John has had a long and distinguished career with our Company, rising up through the ranks to achieve this position. John's success over the years has been due to his focus on meeting customer needs, understanding the coatings market and his dedication to hiring and developing terrific management teams. I fully expect that John will bring the same energy and passion to
 
this new role, and he will help Sherwin-Williams continue to meet the expectations of our customers, shareholders and employees."
     The Board of Directors also appointed Steven J. Oberfeld as President, Paint Stores Group, succeeding Mr. Morikis. Mr. Oberfeld is also a twenty-two year employee of the Company. Mr. Oberfeld has served as President & General Manager, South Western Division of the Paint Stores Group since 1992. He has led the Company's growth in many of its largest architectural and industrial marine markets, including Texas, California, Arizona and Kansas. Mr. Oberfeld, 54, earned a degree in business from the University of Minnesota. Commenting on Mr. Oberfeld's appointment, Mr. Connor said, "Steve Oberfeld has been an outstanding manager for our Company for a long time, managing one of the largest businesses we have. I am confident that Steve will provide the direction and leadership to the Paint Stores Group in continuing our growth and meeting the needs of our customers. I am also pleased that our management development and succession plans have allowed us to promote highly qualified performers to their new roles, insuring continuity of our business plans and processes."
     The Sherwin-Williams Company, founded in 1866, is one of the world's leading companies engaged in the manufacture, distribution and sale of coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers.


