FILE:SHW/SHW-8K-20060419131442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01.
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
.
     At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on April 19, 2006, Sherwin-Williams' shareholders elected Arthur F. Anton to serve on Sherwin-Williams' Board of Directors. In connection with Mr. Anton's election to the Board of Directors, Sherwin-Williams entered into an Indemnity Agreement with him on April 19, 2006. The Form of the Indemnity Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10(a) to Sherwin-Williams' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Indemnity Agreement supplements the indemnification coverage afforded by Sherwin-Williams' Regulations and Ohio law.
     At the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, Sherwin-Williams' shareholders also approved The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan") and The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Stock Plan for Nonemployee Directors (the "Director Stock Plan").
     The Incentive Plan replaces The Sherwin-Williams Company 2003 Stock Plan. The Incentive Plan authorizes the Board of Directors, or a committee of the Board of Directors, to provide equity-based compensation in the form of option rights, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units for the purpose of providing Sherwin-Williams' officers and employees incentives and rewards for performance. Subject to adjustment as provided in the Incentive Plan, the number of shares of Sherwin-Williams common stock that may be issued or transferred under the Incentive Plan will not exceed in the aggregate 10,000,000 shares of common stock, plus any shares relating to awards that expire, are forfeited or are cancelled under the Incentive Plan.
     The Director Stock Plan replaces The Sherwin Williams Company 1997 Stock Plan for Nonemployee Directors. The Director Stock Plan authorizes the Board of Directors, or a committee of the Board of Directors, to provide equity-based compensation in the form of option rights, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units for the purpose of attracting and retaining Sherwin-Williams' nonemployee directors. Subject to adjustment as provided in the Director Stock Plan, the number of shares of Sherwin-Williams common stock that may be issued or transferred under the Director Stock Plan will not exceed in the aggregate 200,000 shares of common stock, plus any shares relating to awards that expire, are forfeited or are cancelled under the Director Stock Plan.
     The foregoing descriptions of the Incentive Plan and the Director Stock Plan do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such plans, which are filed as Exhibits 10(b) and 10(c), respectively, to this Report and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
.
     In accordance with the Board of Directors' retirement policy, Duane E. Collins did not seek reelection to the Board of Directors and retired as a director on April 19, 2006, the date of the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
     (d) Exhibits.
          The following exhibits are filed with this report:
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10(b)
     
1.  The purpose of this 2006 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan is to attract and retain officers and other employees of The Sherwin-Williams Company and its Subsidiaries and to provide to such persons incentives and rewards for performance.
Purpose.
     
2.  As used in this Plan,
Definitions.
 
 
 
     
3. 
Shares Subject to this Plan.
 
     
4.  The Board may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the granting to Participants of options to purchase shares of Common Stock. Each such grant will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Option Rights.
     
5. 
Appreciation Rights.
 
 
     
6.  The Board may also authorize the grant or sale of Restricted Stock to Participants. Each such grant or sale will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Restricted Stock.
     
7.  The Board may also authorize the granting or sale of Restricted Stock Units to Participants. Each such grant or sale will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Restricted Stock Units.
 
     
8.  The Board may also authorize the granting of Performance Shares and Performance Units that will become payable to a Participant upon achievement of specified Management Objectives during the Performance Period. Each such grant will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Performance Shares and Performance Units.
 
     
9. 
Administration of this Plan.
     
10.  The Board may make or provide for such adjustments in the numbers of shares of Common Stock covered by outstanding Option Rights, Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares and Performance Units granted hereunder, in the Option Price and Base Price provided in outstanding Appreciation Rights, and in the kind of shares covered thereby, as the Board, in its sole discretion, may determine is equitably required to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants or Optionees that otherwise would result from (a) any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization or other change in the capital structure of the Company, or (b) any merger, consolidation, spin-off, split-off, spin-out, split-up, reorganization, partial or complete liquidation or other distribution of assets, issuance of rights or
Adjustments.
 
warrants to purchase securities, or (c) any other corporate transaction or event having an effect similar to any of the foregoing. Moreover, in the event of any such transaction or event, the Board, in its discretion, may provide in substitution for any or all outstanding awards under this Plan such alternative consideration (including cash), if any, as it may determine to be equitable in the circumstances and may require in connection therewith the surrender of all awards so replaced. The Board may also make or provide for such adjustments in the numbers of shares specified in Section 3 of this Plan as the Board in its sole discretion may determine is appropriate to reflect any transaction or event described in this Section 10; provided, however, that any such adjustment to the number specified in Section 3(b)(i) will be made only if and to the extent that such adjustment would not cause any option intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option to fail so to qualify.
     
11.  For purposes of this Plan, except as may be otherwise prescribed by the Board in an agreement evidencing a grant or award made under this Plan, a "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Change of Control.
     
Notwithstanding the foregoing: (A) no person shall become the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above) solely as the result of an acquisition of Common Stock by the Company that, by reducing the number of shares outstanding, increases the proportionate number of shares beneficially owned by such person to ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above) of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding; provided, however, that if a person becomes the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above) of the shares of Common Stock solely by reason of purchases of Common Stock by the Company and shall, after such purchases by the Company, become the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of Common Stock which has the effect of increasing such person's percentage ownership of the then-outstanding shares of Common Stock by any means whatsoever, then such person shall be deemed to have triggered a Change of Control; and (B) if the Board of Directors determines that a person who would otherwise be the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above) of the shares of Common Stock has become such inadvertently (including, without limitation, because (1) such person was unaware that it Beneficially Owned ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above) of the shares of Common Stock or (2) such person was aware of the extent of such beneficial ownership but such person acquired beneficial ownership of such shares of Common
 
Stock without the intention to change or influence the control of the Company) and such person divests itself as promptly as practicable of a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock so that such person would no longer be the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above), then such person shall not be deemed to be, or have been, the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more (fifteen percent (15%) or more in the case of any person identified in clause (iv) above) of the shares of Common Stock, and no Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred.
     
For purposes of this Section 11, a person shall be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities:
 
provided, however, that a person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, nor to beneficially own, any security if such person has the right to vote such security pursuant to an agreement, arrangement or understanding which (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy given to such person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D (or any comparable or successor report) under the Exchange Act; and provided, further, that nothing in this Paragraph 5 shall cause a person engaged in business as an underwriter or securities to be the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any securities acquired through such person's participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty (40) days after the date of such acquisition or such later date as the Board of Directors may determine in any specific case.
     
12.  In order to facilitate the making of any grant or combination of grants under this Plan, the Board may provide for such special terms for awards to Participants who are foreign nationals or who are employed by the Company or any Subsidiary outside of the United States of America or who provide services to the Company under an agreement with a foreign nation or agency, as the Board may consider necessary or appropriate to accommodate differences in local law, tax policy or custom. Moreover, the Board may approve such supplements to or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of this Plan (including, without limitation, sub-plans) as it may consider necessary or appropriate for such purposes, without thereby affecting the terms of this Plan as in effect for any other purpose, and the Secretary or other appropriate officer of the Company may certify any such document as having been approved and adopted in the same manner as this Plan. No such special terms, supplements, amendments or restatements, however, will include any provisions that are inconsistent with the terms of this Plan as then in effect unless this Plan could have been amended to eliminate such inconsistency without further approval by the shareholders of the Company.
Non U.S. Participants.
     
13. 
Transferability.
 
     
14.  To the extent that the Company is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes in connection with any payment made or benefit realized by a Participant or other person under this Plan, and the amounts available to the Company for such withholding are insufficient, it will be a condition to the receipt of such payment or the realization of such benefit that the Participant or such other person make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for payment of the balance of such taxes required to be withheld, which arrangements (in the discretion of the Board) may include relinquishment of a portion of such benefit. If a Participant's benefit is to be received in the form of Common Stock, and such Participant fails to make arrangements for the payment of tax, the Company shall withhold such shares of Common Stock having a value equal to the amount required to be withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise provided by the Board, when a Participant is required to pay the Company an amount required to be withheld under applicable income and employment tax laws, the Participant may elect to satisfy the obligation, in whole or in part, by electing to have withheld, from the shares required to be delivered to the Participant, shares of Common Stock having a value equal to the amount required to be withheld (except in the case of Restricted Stock where an election under Section 83(b) of the Code has been made), or by delivering to the Company other shares of Common Stock held by such Participant. The shares used for tax withholding will be valued at an amount equal to the Market Value Per Share of such Common Stock on the date the benefit is to be included in Participant's income. In no event shall the Market Value Per Share of the shares of Common Stock to be withheld and/or delivered pursuant to this Section to satisfy applicable withholding taxes in connection with the benefit exceed the minimum amount of taxes required to be withheld. Participants shall also make such arrangements as the Company may require for the payment of any withholding tax obligation that may arise in connection with the disposition of shares of Common Stock acquired upon the exercise of Option Rights.
Withholding Taxes.
     
15. 
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
 
     
16.  This Plan will be effective as of the Effective Date. No grants will be made under The Sherwin-Williams Company 2003 Stock Plan on or after the Effective Date.
Effective Date.
     
17. 
Amendments.
 
     
Subject to Section 17(b) hereof, the Board may amend the terms of any award theretofore granted under this Plan prospectively or retroactively, except in the case of a Covered Employee where such action would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the award under Section 162(m) of the Code. In such case, the Board will not make any modification of the Management Objectives or the level or levels of achievement with respect to such Covered Employee. Subject to Section 10 above, no such amendment shall impair the rights of any Participant without his or her consent. The Board may, in its discretion, terminate this Plan at any time. Termination of this Plan will not affect the rights of Participants or their successors under any awards outstanding hereunder and not exercised in full on the date of termination.
     
18.  No grant will be made under this Plan more than 10 years after the date on which this Plan is first approved by the shareholders of the Company, but all grants made on or prior to such date will continue in effect thereafter subject to the terms thereof and of this Plan.
Termination.
     
19.  This Plan and all grants and awards and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal substantive laws of the State of Ohio.
Governing Law.
     
20. 
Miscellaneous Provisions.

 
Exhibit 10(c)
     
1.  The purpose of this 2006 Stock Plan for Nonemployee Directors is to attract and retain Nonemployee Directors of The Sherwin-Williams Company.
Purpose.
     
2.  As used in this Plan,
Definitions.
 
     
3. .
Shares Subject to this Plan
 
     
4.  The Board may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the granting to Participants of options to purchase shares of Common Stock. Each such grant will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Option Rights.
     
5. . The Board may also authorize the granting Appreciation Rights to any Participant. An Appreciation Right will be a right of the Participant to receive from the Company an amount determined by the Board, which will be expressed as a percentage of the Spread (not exceeding 100 percent) at the time of exercise. Each grant of Appreciation Rights will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Appreciation Rights
 
     
6.  The Board may also authorize the grant or sale of Restricted Stock to Participants. Each such grant or sale will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Restricted Stock.
     
7.  The Board may also authorize the granting or sale of Restricted Stock Units to Participants. Each such grant or sale will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Restricted Stock Units.
 
     
8. .
Administration of this Plan
     
9.  The Board may make or provide for such adjustments in the numbers of shares of Common Stock covered by outstanding Option Rights, Appreciation Rights and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder, in the Option Price and Base Price provided in outstanding Appreciation Rights, and in the kind of shares covered thereby, as the Board, in its sole discretion, may determine is equitably required to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants or Optionees that otherwise would result from (a) any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization or other change in the capital structure of the Company, or (b) any merger, consolidation, spin-off, split-off, spin-out, split-up, reorganization, partial or complete liquidation or other distribution of assets, issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, or (c) any other corporate transaction or event having an effect similar to any of the foregoing. Moreover, in the event of any such transaction or event, the Board, in its discretion, may provide in substitution for any or all outstanding awards under this Plan such alternative consideration (including cash), if any, as it may determine to be equitable in the circumstances and may require in connection therewith the surrender of all awards so replaced. The Board may also make or provide for such adjustments in the numbers of shares specified in Section 3 of this Plan as the Board in its sole discretion may determine is appropriate to reflect any transaction or event described in this Section 9.
Adjustments.
     
10.  In order to facilitate the making of any grant or combination of grants under this Plan, the Board may provide for such special terms for awards to Participants who
Non U.S. Participants.
 
are foreign nationals or who reside outside of the United States of America as the Board may consider necessary or appropriate to accommodate differences in local law, tax policy or custom.
     
11. .
Transferability
     
12.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Plan and any grants made hereunder comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code. This Plan and any grants made hereunder shall be administrated in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause this Plan or any grant made hereunder to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall have no force and effect until amended to comply with Section 409A of the Code (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code and may be made by the Company without the consent of Participants).
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
     
13.  This Plan will be effective as of the Effective Date. No grants will be made under The Sherwin-Williams Company 1997 Stock Plan for Nonemployee Directors on or after the Effective Date.
Effective Date.
     
14. 
Amendments.
 
     
15.  No grant will be made under this Plan more than 10 years after the date on which this Plan is first approved by the shareholders of the Company, but all grants made on or prior to such date will continue in effect thereafter subject to the terms thereof and of this Plan.
Termination.
     
16.  This Plan and all grants and awards and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal substantive laws of the State of Ohio.
Governing Law.
     
17. .
Miscellaneous Provisions


