FILE:SHW/SHW-8K-20060316121727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On March 15, 2006, The Sherwin-Williams Company entered into a modification to its Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2005 (the "Credit Agreement"), among Sherwin-Williams, the lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent. Under the Credit Agreement, Sherwin-Williams has the right to borrow and to obtain the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of letters of credit so long as no Default (as defined in the Credit Agreement) has occurred and is continuing. The modification to the Credit Agreement provides that in the event a judgment for the payment of money in excess of $75 million and not covered by insurance is entered against Sherwin-Williams in the lead pigment and lead-based paint action brought by the State of Rhode Island, such judgment will not prevent Sherwin-Williams from borrowing and obtaining letters of credit under the Credit Agreement, provided that such modification shall terminate unless the judgment shall have been effectively stayed, vacated or bonded pending appeal prior to the earlier of (a) the date on which any Event of Default (as defined in the Credit Agreement) shall occur under the Credit Agreement and (b) the twentieth day after the date of entry of the judgment.
     The foregoing description of the modification to the Credit Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such modification, which is filed as Exhibit 4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
                 The following exhibit is filed with this report:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 4
March 15, 2006
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Reference is made to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of December 8, 2005 (the ""), among The Sherwin-Williams Company (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the ""). Capitalized terms used in this letter agreement (this "") but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
Agreement
          Under Section 4.02(b) of the Credit Agreement, the right of the Borrower to borrow and to obtain the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of Letters of Credit is subject to the condition that at the time of and immediately after giving effect to each such borrowing, issuance, amendment, renewal or extension, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
          A judgment may be entered against the Borrower in excess of the amount set forth in paragraph (k) of Article VII of the Credit Agreement in , Superior Court of Rhode Island, Docket No. Civ. A. 99-5226 (any such judgment entered in such case being called the ""). If the Judgment is entered, then, until it has been effectively stayed, vacated or bonded pending appeal, a Default may have occurred and be continuing as a result of the existence of an event or condition that upon lapse of time would become an Event of Default under paragraph (k) of Article VII of the Credit Agreement (the "").
State of Rhode Island v. Lead Industries Associations, et al.
Judgment
Default
          The Borrower hereby requests your agreement, and you hereby agree, that the occurrence and continuance of the Default will not, in and of itself, prevent the Borrower from borrowing and obtaining the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of Letters of Credit under Section 4.02(b) of the Credit Agreement; , that unless prior to the earlier of (i) the date on which any Event of Default shall occur under the Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, any Event of Default that may at any time exist as a result of the Judgment or the acts, events or circumstances giving rise thereto) and (ii) the twentieth day after the date of entry of the Judgment, the Judgment shall have been effectively stayed, vacated or bonded pending appeal, the agreement set
provided
 
2
forth in this paragraph shall terminate and cease to be of any force or effect with the same effect as if it had never been entered into.
          Except as expressly set forth herein, nothing herein shall by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of, amend, or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the Lenders under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document or alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, all of which are ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force and effect. Without limiting the foregoing, nothing herein shall constitute a waiver of any default under the Credit Agreement other than the Default, or of any Event of Default that may at any time exist as a result of the Judgment, the acts, events or circumstances giving rise thereto or any other acts, events or circumstances. This Agreement shall apply and be effective with respect only to the matters expressly referred to herein, and nothing herein shall be deemed to entitle the Borrower to a consent to, or a waiver, amendment, modification or other change of, any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document in similar or different circumstances.
          To induce the other parties hereto to enter into this Agreement, the Borrower represents to each of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent as follows:
     (a) After giving effect to this Agreement, the representations and warranties set forth in Article III of the Credit Agreement are true and correct on and as of the date hereof with the same effect as if made on the date hereof (except that no representation is made as to the matters set forth in Sections 3.04(b) and 3.06 of the Credit Agreement).
     (b) After giving effect to this Agreement, no Default or Event of Default (other than the Default) has occurred and is continuing under the Credit Agreement.
     (c) The Judgment will not result in any judgment lien or similar lien attaching to any assets of the Borrower or any of its subsidiaries in any jurisdiction during the period of twenty days after the entry of the Judgment or at any time after the Judgment has been stayed, vacated or bonded pending appeal.
     The agreement of the undersigned Lenders set forth herein shall become effective as of the date first above written when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts of this Agreement that, when taken together, bear the signatures of the Borrower and the Required Lenders.
     THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
     This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original but all of which when taken together shall constitute but one agreement. Delivery of an executed signature page to this Agreement by facsimile
 
3
transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually signed counterpart of this Agreement.
     The Borrower agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent for its out-of-pocket expenses in connection with this Agreement, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Administrative Agent.
 
4
          Please indicate your acceptance of the terms hereof by signing and returning to Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel to the Administrative Agent, a signature page to this Agreement not later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on March 15, 2006.
 
5
 
6
 
7
 


