FILE:SHW/SHW-8K-20090716101439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
     On July 15, 2009, the Board of Directors of The Sherwin-Williams Company increased the size of the Board from nine to ten members and elected John M. Stropki to fill the resulting vacancy. Mr. Stropki, 58, is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Lincoln Electric Holdings, Inc. In addition, Mr. Stropki was appointed to the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board. A copy of the press release of Sherwin-Williams announcing Mr. Stropki's election is attached as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The Board has determined that Mr. Stropki is independent under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and Sherwin-Williams' Director Independence Standards. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Stropki and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Stropki was selected as a director, and there are no related party transactions involving Mr. Stropki that are reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
     Mr. Stropki received a grant of 1,483 shares of restricted stock under The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Stock Plan for Nonemployee Directors. The shares of restricted stock will vest in annual increments of one-third of the shares granted over a period of three years. Mr. Stropki will receive additional compensation pursuant to Sherwin-Williams' director compensation program for nonemployee directors, which is described on pages 11 and 12 of Sherwin-Williams' Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting held on April 15, 2009.
     Sherwin-Williams entered into an Indemnity Agreement with Mr. Stropki in the same form that Sherwin-Williams has entered into with its other directors and officers. The Form of the Indemnity Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10(a) to Sherwin-Williams' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Indemnity Agreement supplements the indemnification coverage afforded by Sherwin-Williams' Regulations and Ohio law.
Table of Contents
     (d) Exhibits.
          The following exhibits are filed with this report:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99
     CLEVELAND, OHIO, July 16, 2009  The Sherwin-Williams Company (NYSE: SHW) announced that John M. Stropki was elected to the Board of Directors of Sherwin-Williams effective July 15, 2009. Mr. Stropki, 58, is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Lincoln Electric Holdings, Inc. Mr. Stropki was also appointed to the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board. Mr. Stropki's election brings the number of members of the Board to ten and the number of independent directors to nine.
     "We are very pleased to welcome John to our Board of Directors," commented Christopher M. Connor, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Sherwin-Williams. "John brings a wealth of manufacturing and management experience to our Board and will be a great asset to Sherwin-Williams and our shareholders for years to come."
     Mr. Stropki started his employment at Lincoln Electric more than 35 years ago working summers at its Cleveland, Ohio factory while an engineering student at Purdue University. He held various management positions with Lincoln Electric before being named President and Chief Executive Officer in June 2004 and being elected Chairman in October 2004. He has been a Director of Lincoln Electric since 1998. Mr. Stropki holds a bachelor's degree in industrial engineering from Purdue and an M.B.A. degree from Indiana University.
     Founded in 1866, The Sherwin-Williams Company is a global leader in the manufacture, development, distribution, and sale of coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial, and retail customers. The company manufactures products under well-known brands such as Sherwin-Williams, Dutch Boy, Krylon, Minwax, Thompson's WaterSeal and many more. With global headquarters in Cleveland, Ohio, Sherwin-Williams branded products are sold exclusively through a chain of more than 3,000 company-operated stores and facilities, while the company's other brands are sold through leading mass merchandisers, home centers, independent paint dealers, hardware stores, automotive retailers, and industrial distributors. The Sherwin-Williams Global Finishes Group distributes a wide range of products in more than 30 countries around the world. For more information, visit .
www.sherwin.com
Contacts:
Robert Wells Senior Vice President  Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Sherwin-Williams Direct: 216.566.2244
rjwells@sherwin.com
Mike Conway Director  Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Sherwin-Williams Direct: 216.515.4393 Pager: 216.422.3751
mike.conway@sherwin.com


