FILE:SHW/SHW-8K-20100426085616.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
.
     On April 20, 2010, the shareholders of The Sherwin-Williams Company approved The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan (Amended and Restated as of April 21, 2010) (the "2006 Equity Plan") at Sherwin-Williams' 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
     The 2006 Equity Plan authorizes the grant of option rights, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance units and other awards to attract and retain officers and other employees of Sherwin-Williams and its subsidiaries and to provide such persons incentives and rewards for performance. Subject to adjustment as provided in the 2006 Equity Plan, the number of shares of Sherwin-Williams common stock that may be issued or transferred under the 2006 Equity Plan was increased by 9,200,000 shares to 19,200,000 shares. A summary of the 2006 Equity Plan is set forth under the heading "Approval of the Amendment and Restatement of The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan (Proposal 2)" in Sherwin-Williams' definitive proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed on March 9, 2010 (the "Proxy Statement") and is incorporated herein by reference. The summary of the 2006 Equity Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2006 Equity Plan, which is attached as Appendix B to the Proxy Statement and is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10(a) and incorporated herein by reference.
     Forms of grant documents to be used in connection with awards of stock options and restricted stock under the 2006 Equity Plan, and awards of restricted stock under The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Stock Plan for Nonemployee Directors, are attached hereto as Exhibits 10(b), (c) and (d), respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
     On April 20, 2010, the Board of Directors elected Allen J. Mistysyn as Vice President  Corporate Controller of Sherwin-Williams, effective May 1, 2010. Mr. Mistysyn replaces John L. Ault who will retire from his position as Vice President  Corporate Controller on April 30, 2010, as previously reported in Sherwin-Williams' Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 16, 2010. Sherwin-Williams' executive officers hold office until their successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. Mr. Mistysyn, age 41, has been employed with Sherwin-Williams since June 1990. He has served as Vice President  Assistant Corporate Controller since August 2009. He served as Vice President  Controller, Paint and Coatings Division from November 2006 to August 2009 and Vice President  Controller, Consumer Division from February 2003 to November 2006.
     There is no family relationship between Mr. Mistysyn and any director or executive officer of Sherwin-Williams. There are no related party transactions involving Mr. Mistysyn that are reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
     Sherwin-Williams entered into an Indemnity Agreement (the "Indemnity Agreement") with Mr. Mistysyn, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10(e) and incorporated herein by reference. The Indemnity Agreement supplements the indemnification coverage afforded by Sherwin-Williams' Regulations and Ohio law. Sherwin-Williams also entered into an Amended and Restated Severance Agreement with Mr. Mistysyn, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10(f) and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
.
     (a) Sherwin-Williams' 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on April 20, 2010.
     (b) The number of directors of Sherwin-Williams was fixed at eleven and the following persons were nominated to serve, and were elected, as directors of Sherwin-Williams to serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders and until their successors are elected: A.F. Anton, J.C. Boland, C.M. Connor, D.F. Hodnik, T.G. Kadien, S.J. Kropf, G.E. McCullough, A.M. Mixon, III, C.E. Moll, R.K. Smucker and J.M. Stropki, Jr. The voting results for each nominee were as follows:
     (c) Proposal 2 to approve the amendment and restatement of The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan was adopted with 62,894,440 shares voting for, 20,599,262 shares voting against, 665,971 shares abstaining, and 10,233,087 broker non-votes.
     (d) Proposal 3 to ratify the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Sherwin-Williams' independent registered public accounting firm was adopted with 93,372,195 shares voting for, 650,560 shares voting against, and 370,005 shares abstaining.
     (e) Proposal 4 to consider a shareholder proposal relating to majority voting was not adopted with 31,305,260 shares voting for, 51,517,571 shares voting against, 1,333,842 shares abstaining, and 10,236,087 broker non-votes.
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
     (d) Exhibits.
          The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Board determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Company, or the manner in which it conducts its business, or other events or circumstances render the Management Objectives unsuitable, the Board may in its discretion modify such Management Objectives or the related level or levels of achievement, in whole or in part, as the Board deems appropriate and equitable, except in the case of a Qualified Performance-Based Award (other than in connection with a Change of Control) where such action would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the award under Section 162(m) of the Code. In such case, the Board will not make any modification of the Management Objectives or the level or levels of achievement with respect to such Covered Employee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. .
Shares Subject to this Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.   The Board may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the granting to Participants of options to purchase shares of Common Stock. Each such grant will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Option Rights.
 
 
 
 
5. .
Appreciation Rights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. The Board may also, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the grant or sale of Restricted Stock to Participants. Each such grant or sale may utilize any or all of the authorizations, and will be subject to all of the requirements, contained in the following provisions:
Restricted Stock.  
 
 
 
 
 
7.   The Board may also, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the granting or sale of Restricted Stock Units to Participants. Each such grant or sale may utilize any or all of the authorizations, and will be subject to all of the requirements, contained in the following provisions:
Restricted Stock Units.
 
 
 
8. The Board may also, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the granting of Performance Shares and Performance Units that will become payable to a Participant upon achievement of specified Management Objectives during the Performance Period. Each such grant may utilize any or all of the authorizations, and will be subject to all of the requirements, contained in the following provisions:
Performance Shares and Performance Units.  
 
 
9. 
Other Awards.
 
 
 
 
10. .
Administration of this Plan
 
 
11. The Board shall make or provide for such adjustments in the numbers of shares of Common Stock covered by outstanding Option Rights, Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units and, if applicable, in the number of shares of Common Stock covered by outstanding Other Awards granted hereunder, in the Option Price and Base Price
Adjustments.  
 
provided in outstanding Appreciation Rights, and in the kind of shares covered thereby, as the Board, in its sole discretion, may determine is equitably required to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants or Optionees that otherwise would result from (a) any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization or other change in the capital structure of the Company, or (b) any merger, consolidation, spin-off, split- off, spin-out, reorganization, partial or complete liquidation or other distribution of assets, issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, or (c) any other corporate transaction or event having an effect similar to any of the foregoing. Moreover, in the event of any such transaction or event, the Board, in its discretion, may provide in substitution for any or all outstanding awards under this Plan such alternative consideration (including cash), if any, as it may determine to be equitable in the circumstances and may require in connection therewith the surrender of all awards so replaced in a manner that complies with Section 409A of the Code. In addition, for each Option Right or Appreciation Right with an Option Price or Base Price greater than the consideration offered in connection with any such transaction or event or change of control, the Board may in its sole discretion elect to cancel such Option Right or Appreciation Right without any payment to the person holding such Option Right or Appreciation Right. The Board shall also make or provide for such adjustments in the numbers of shares specified in Section 3 of this Plan as the Board in its sole discretion may determine is appropriate to reflect any transaction or event described in this Section 11; provided, however, that any such adjustment to the number specified in Section 3(b)(i) will be made only if and to the extent that such adjustment would not cause any option intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option to fail to so qualify.
split-up,
 
12. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, the following provisions shall apply in connection with a Change of Control:
Change of Control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and any such act shall have been demonstrably and materially harmful to Company. For purposes of this Plan, no act or failure to act on the part of Participant will be deemed "intentional" if it was due primarily to an error in judgment or negligence, but will be deemed "intentional" only if done or omitted to be done by Participant not in good faith and without reasonable belief that Participant's action or omission was in the best interest of Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. .  Any Evidence of Award may provide for the cancellation or forfeiture of an award or the forfeiture and repayment to the Company of any gain related to an award, or other provisions intended to have a similar effect, upon such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Board in accordance with the Company's Executive Adjustment and Recapture Policy, as may be amended from time to time, any successor policy or otherwise.
Recapture Provisions
 
14. In order to facilitate the making of any grant or combination of grants under this Plan, the Board may provide for such special terms for awards to Participants who are foreign nationals or who are employed by the Company or any Subsidiary outside of the United States of America or who provide services to the Company under an agreement with a foreign nation or agency, as the Board may consider necessary or appropriate to accommodate differences in local law, tax policy or custom. Moreover, the Board may approve such supplements to or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of this Plan (including, without limitation, as it may consider necessary or appropriate for such purposes, without thereby affecting the terms of this Plan as in effect for any other purpose, and the Secretary or other appropriate officer of the Company may certify any such document as having been approved and adopted in the same manner as this Plan. No such special terms, supplements, amendments or restatements, however, will include any provisions that are inconsistent with the terms of this Plan as then in effect unless this Plan could have been amended to eliminate such inconsistency without further approval by the shareholders of the Company.
Non U.S. Participants.  
sub-plans)
 
15. .
Transferability
 
 
16. To the extent that the Company is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes in connection with any payment made or benefit realized by a Participant or other person under this Plan, and the amounts available to the Company for such withholding are insufficient, it will be a condition to the receipt of such payment or the realization of such benefit that the Participant or such other person make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for payment of the balance of such taxes required to be withheld, which arrangements (in the discretion of the Board) may include relinquishment of a portion of such benefit. If a Participant's benefit is to be received in the form of Common Stock, and such Participant fails to make arrangements for the payment of tax, the Company shall withhold such shares of Common Stock having a value equal to the amount required to be withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise provided by the
Withholding Taxes.  
 
Board, when a Participant is required to pay the Company an amount required to be withheld under applicable income and employment tax laws, the Participant may elect to satisfy the obligation, in whole or in part, by electing to have withheld, from the shares required to be delivered to the Participant, shares of Common Stock having a value equal to the amount required to be withheld (except in the case of Restricted Stock where an election under Section 83(b) of the Code has been made), or by delivering to the Company other shares of Common Stock held by such Participant. The shares used for tax withholding will be valued at an amount equal to the Market Value Per Share of such Common Stock on the date the benefit is to be included in Participant's income. In no event shall the Market Value Per Share of the shares of Common Stock to be withheld delivered pursuant to this Section to satisfy applicable withholding taxes in connection with the benefit exceed the minimum amount of taxes required to be withheld. Participants shall also make such arrangements as the Company may require for the payment of any withholding tax obligation that may arise in connection with the disposition of shares of Common Stock acquired upon the exercise of Option Rights.
and/or
 
17. 
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
 
 
 
 
18. .
Additional Restrictions with Respect to Qualified Performance-Based Awards
 
 
19. The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan first became effective on April 20, 2006, the date immediately following the date it was approved by shareholders. No grants have been or are permitted under The Sherwin-Williams Company 2003 Stock Plan on or after April 20, 2006. This Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date.
Effective Date.  
 
20. 
Amendments.
 
 
 
 
21. No grant will be made under this Plan after April 20, 2020 (more than 10 years after the date on which this Plan is approved by the shareholders of the Company), but all grants made on or prior to such date will continue in effect thereafter subject to the terms thereof and of this Plan.
Termination.  
 
22. This Plan and all grants and awards and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal substantive laws of the State of Ohio.
Governing Law.  
 
23. .
Miscellaneous Provisions
 

EXHIBIT 10(b)
          1. The Board of Directors (the "Board") of The Sherwin-Williams Company (the "Company") has granted an option to you pursuant to a Notice of Award that has been delivered to you. Each option entitles you to purchase from the Company one share of Common Stock of the Company at the Option Price per share in accordance with the terms of The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of April 21, 2010 (the "Plan"), the related Prospectus, the Notice of Award, these Additional Terms and Conditions, and such other rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Company. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan.
Grant of Option.
          2. . (A) The option (unless terminated as hereinafter provided) shall be exercisable only to the extent of one-third of the shares after you shall have been in the continuous employ of the Company or any Subsidiary for one full year from the Date of Grant and to the extent of an additional one-third of such shares after each of the next two successive full years thereafter during which you shall have been in the continuous employ of the Company or any Subsidiary.
Vesting of Option
     (B) Notwithstanding Section 2(A) above, the option shall become immediately exercisable in full if you should die while in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary.
     (C) Notwithstanding Section 2(A) above, in the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company, as defined in Section 2(f) of the Plan, any unvested number of options shall vest and become exercisable in accordance with Section 12 of the Plan.
          3. . The option shall terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
Termination of Option
     (A) The date on which you cease to be an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, unless you cease to be such employee by reason of (i) death, or (ii) disability;
     (B) Three years after the date of your death if (i) you die while an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary or (ii) you die following your Retirement;
     (C) Three years after the date you are terminated by the Company or a Subsidiary as a result of expiration of available disability leave of absence pursuant to applicable Company policy due to sickness or bodily injury;
     (D) Ten years from the Date of Grant; or
 
     (E) The date on which you knowingly or willfully engage in misconduct, which is materially harmful to the interests of the Company or a Subsidiary as determined by the Board.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event your employment terminates as a result of normal retirement age as defined under the applicable retirement plan of the Company or a Subsidiary, all of your rights under this grant shall continue as if you had continued employment.
          4. . To the extent exercisable, the option may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time. The Option Price shall be payable (i) in cash or by check acceptable to the Company or by wire transfer of immediately available funds, (ii) by the actual or constructive transfer to the Company by you of nonforfeitable, unrestricted shares of Common Stock of the Company owned by you and having an aggregate Market Value Per Share at the time of exercise of the option equal to the total Option Price of the shares of Common Stock which are the subject of such exercise, (iii) by a combination of such methods of payment, or (iv) by such other methods as may be approved by the Board.
Exercise and Payment of Option
          5. . The option is not transferable by you otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and in no event shall this award be transferred for value. Except as otherwise determined by the Board, this option is exercisable, during your lifetime, only by you or, in the case of your legal incapacity, only by your guardian or legal representative. These Additional Terms and Conditions bind you and your guardians, legal representatives and heirs.
Transferability, Binding Effect
          6. . The option shall not be exercisable if such exercise would involve a violation of any law.
Compliance with Law
          7. . If the Company shall be required to withhold any federal, state, local or foreign tax in connection with exercise of the option, it shall be a condition to such exercise that you pay or make provision satisfactory to the Company for payment of all such taxes.
Withholding Taxes
          8. . The option award is a voluntary, discretionary bonus being made on a one-time basis and it does not constitute a commitment to make any future awards. The option award and any related payments made to you will not be considered salary or other compensation for purposes of any severance pay or similar allowance, except as otherwise required by law. Nothing contained herein will not confer upon you any right with respect to continuance of employment or other service with the Company or any Subsidiary, nor will it interfere in any way with any right the Company or any Subsidiary would otherwise have to terminate your employment or other service at any time.
No Right to Future Awards or Employment
          9. . If any provision of these Additional Terms and Conditions or the application of any provision hereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal, the remainder of these Additional Terms and Conditions and the application of such provision to any other person or circumstances shall not be affected, and the provisions so held to be invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal shall be reformed to the extent (and only to the extent) necessary to make it enforceable, valid and legal.
Severability
 
          10. These Additional Terms and Conditions shall be governed by and construed with the internal substantive laws of the State of Ohio, without giving effect to any principle of law that would result in the application of the law of any other jurisdiction.
Governing Law.
          11. . You acknowledge and agree that the terms and conditions set forth in The Sherwin-Williams Company Executive Compensation Adjustment and Recapture Policy ("Policy") are incorporated in these Additional Terms and Conditions by reference. To the extent the Policy is applicable to you, it creates additional rights for the Company with respect to your option award.
Application of The Sherwin-Williams Company Executive Compensation Adjustment and Recapture Policy
 
          1. The Board of Directors (the "Board") of The Sherwin-Williams Company (the "Company") has granted an option to you pursuant to a Notice of Award that has been delivered to you. The option is intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option as defined in Section 422 of the Code. Each option entitles you to purchase from the Company one share of Common Stock of the Company at the Option Price per share in accordance with the terms of The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of April 21, 2010 (the "Plan"), the related Prospectus, the Notice of Award, these Additional Terms and Conditions, and such other rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Company. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan.
Grant and Nature of Option.
          2. . (A) The option (unless terminated as hereinafter provided) shall be exercisable only to the extent of one-third of the shares after you shall have been in the continuous employ of the Company or any Subsidiary for one full year from the Date of Grant and to the extent of an additional one-third of such shares after each of the next two successive full years thereafter during which you shall have been in the continuous employ of the Company or any Subsidiary.
Vesting of Option
     (B) Notwithstanding Section 2(A) above, the option shall become immediately exercisable in full if you should die while in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary.
     (C) Notwithstanding Section 2(A) above, in the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company, as defined in Section 2(f) of the Plan, any unvested number of options shall vest and become exercisable in accordance with Section 12 of the Plan.
          3. The option shall terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
Termination of Option.
     (A) The date on which you cease to be an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, unless you cease to be such employee by reason of (i) death, or (ii) disability;
     (B) Three years after the date of your death if (i) you die while an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary or (ii) you die following your Retirement;
     (C) Three years after the date you are terminated by the Company or a Subsidiary as a result of expiration of available disability leave of absence pursuant to applicable Company policy due to sickness or bodily injury;
 
     (D) Ten years from the Date of Grant; or
     (E) The date on which you knowingly or willfully engage in misconduct, which is materially harmful to the interests of the Company or a Subsidiary as determined by the Board.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event your employment terminates as a result of normal retirement age as defined under the applicable retirement plan of the Company or a Subsidiary, all of your rights under this grant shall continue as if you had continued employment
          4. . To the extent exercisable, the option may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time. The Option Price shall be payable (i) in cash or by check acceptable to the Company or by wire transfer of immediately available funds, (ii) by the actual or constructive transfer to the Company by you of nonforfeitable, unrestricted shares of Common Stock of the Company owned by you and having an aggregate Market Value Per Share at the time of exercise of the option equal to the total Option Price of the shares of Common Stock which are the subject of such exercise, (iii) by a combination of such methods of payment, or (iv) by such other methods as may be approved by the Board.
Exercise and Payment of Option
          5. . The option is not transferable by you otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and in no event shall this award be transferred for value. Except as otherwise determined by the Board this option is exercisable, during your lifetime, only by you, or, in the case of your legal incapacity, only by your guardian or legal representative. These Additional Terms and Conditions bind you and your guardians, legal representatives and heirs.
Transferability, Binding Effect
          6. . The option shall not be exercisable if such exercise would involve a violation of any law.
Compliance with Law
          7. . If the Company shall be required to withhold any federal, state, local or foreign tax in connection with exercise of the option, it shall be a condition to such exercise that you pay or make provision satisfactory to the Company for payment of all such taxes.
Withholding Taxes
          8. . The option award is a voluntary, discretionary bonus being made on a one-time basis and it does not constitute a commitment to make any future awards. The option award and any related payments made to you will not be considered salary or other compensation for purposes of any severance pay or similar allowance, except as otherwise required by law. Nothing contained herein will not confer upon you any right with respect to continuance of employment or other service with the Company or any Subsidiary, nor will it interfere in any way with any right the Company or any Subsidiary would otherwise have to terminate your employment or other service at any time.
No Right to Future Awards or Employment
          9. . If any provision of these Additional Terms and Conditions or the application of any provision hereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal, the remainder of these Additional Terms and Conditions and the application of such provision to any other person or circumstances shall not be affected, and
Severability
 
the provisions so held to be invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal shall be reformed to the extent (and only to the extent) necessary to make it enforceable, valid and legal.
          10. These Additional Terms and Conditions shall be governed by and construed with the internal substantive laws of the State of Ohio, without giving effect to any principle of law that would result in the application of the law of any other jurisdiction.
Governing Law.
          11. . You acknowledge and agree that the terms and conditions set forth in The Sherwin-Williams Company Executive Compensation Adjustment and Recapture Policy ("Policy") are incorporated in these Additional Terms and Conditions by reference. To the extent the Policy is applicable to you, it creates additional rights for the Company with respect to your option award.
Application of The Sherwin-Williams Company Executive Compensation Adjustment and Recapture Policy

EXHIBIT 10(C)
     1. The Board of Directors (the "Board") of The Sherwin-Williams Company (the "Company") grants to you (the "Grantee") the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock, $1.00 par value, of the Company set forth above (the "Restricted Shares") in accordance with the terms hereof and of The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of April 21, 2010 (the "Plan"). Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan.
Grant of Restricted Shares.
     2. (A) Provided Grantee is continuously employed from the Date of Grant through the Date of Vesting, inclusive (the "Restriction Period") with the Company or a Subsidiary, in Grantee's present position or in such other position as the Board may determine entitles Grantee to retain the rights under this grant (such positions being hereinafter referred to as a "Participating Position"), a percentage ranging from 0% to 100% of the Performance-Based Restricted Shares shall vest in accordance with the Management Objectives set forth below. The determination of the percentage of the Performance-Based Restricted Shares that will vest shall be made after such time as the Board has obtained the information, made the decisions, and completed the calculations necessary. The percentage of the Performance-Based Restricted Shares that will vest is based upon (i) the Company achieving a specified Average Return on Average Equity during the three year period ending on December 31 of the most recently completed fiscal year prior to the Date of Vesting ("Measurement Period"), and (ii) the Company's Earnings Per Share (EPS) during the Measurement Period, as determined in accordance with the following table:
Vesting of Performance-Based Restricted Shares.
 
When the Cumulative EPS results during the Measurement Period are between the table values, an interpolation will be made to determine the vesting percentage calculated to the nearest hundredth of a percentage. The manner in which the Board will determine Average Return on Average Equity and EPS during the Measurement Period is set forth on Exhibit A.
          (B) . Provided Grantee is continuously employed during the Restriction Period with the Company or a Subsidiary in Grantee's present position or in a different Participating Position, the Time-Based Restricted Shares shall immediately vest in full on the Date of Vesting.
Vesting of Time-Based Restricted Shares
          (C) Notwithstanding Section 2(A) above, in the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company, as defined in Section 2(f) of the Plan, any unvested number of shares shall vest and become exercisable in accordance with Section 12 of the Plan.
     3. (A) On the date Grantee ceases to be continuously employed in any Participating Position(s) at any time during the Restriction Period, Grantee shall forfeit and lose all rights to the Restricted Shares, except as otherwise provided below:
Termination of Right to Restricted Shares.
     (i) In the event of the death of Grantee during the Restriction Period, the full number of Restricted Shares shall immediately vest.
     (ii) In the event Grantee is terminated by the Company or a Subsidiary as a result of expiration of available disability leave of absence pursuant to applicable Company policy due to sickness or bodily injury during the Restriction Period, the full number of Restricted Shares shall immediately vest.
     (iii) In the event Grantee's employment terminates as a result of normal retirement age as defined under the applicable retirement plan of the Company or a Subsidiary, all rights of Grantee under this grant shall continue as if Grantee had continued employment in a Participating Position. The determination of the percentage of the number of Restricted Shares that will vest will be made as if Grantee had remained employed in a Participating Position throughout the Restriction Period.
     (iv) In the event Grantee's employment terminates as a result of early retirement (retirement on or after the earliest voluntary retirement age but before normal retirement age as provided for in the applicable retirement plan of the Company or a Subsidiary or retirement at an earlier age with the consent of the Board), the Board shall have the right to cancel Grantee's rights hereunder, continue Grantee's rights hereunder in full, or prorate the number of Restricted Shares granted hereunder for the portion of the Restriction Period completed as of the date of such retirement or as the Board may otherwise deem appropriate. In the event Grantee's rights hereunder continue in full or the number of Restricted Shares is prorated, determination of the percentage of the number of Restricted Shares that will vest will be made as if Grantee had remained employed in a Participating Position throughout the Restriction Period.
          (B) In the event Grantee is transferred from a Participating Position, the Board shall have the right to cancel Grantee's rights hereunder, continue Grantee's rights hereunder in full, or prorate the number of Restricted Shares granted hereunder for the portion of the Restriction Period completed
 
as of the date of such transfer or as the Board may otherwise deem appropriate. In the event Grantee's rights hereunder continue in full or the number of Restricted Shares is prorated, determination of the percentage of the number of Restricted Shares that will vest will be made as if Grantee had remained employed in a Participating Position throughout the Restriction Period.
          (C) In the event that Grantee knowingly or willfully engages in misconduct during the Restriction Period, which is materially harmful to the interests of the Company or a Subsidiary as determined by the Board, all rights of Grantee in the Restricted Shares shall terminate.
     4. Within a reasonable time following the Date of Grant, the Company shall instruct its transfer agent to establish a book entry account representing the Restricted Shares in Grantee's name effective as of the Date of Grant, provided that the Company shall retain control over the account until the Restricted Shares have vested. On the Date of Grant, ownership of the Restricted Shares shall immediately transfer to Grantee and, except for the substantial risk of forfeiture and the restrictions on transfer expressly set forth herein, Grantee shall be entitled to all voting, dividend, distribution and other ownership rights as may apply to the Common Stock generally. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any stock dividends or other in-kind dividends or distributions with respect to Performance-Based Restricted Stock shall be held by the Company until the related Performance-Based Restricted Shares have become vested in accordance with this grant and shall remain subject to the forfeiture provisions applicable to the Performance-Based Restricted Shares to which such dividends or distributions relate.
Book Entry Account; Stockholder Rights.
     5. . During the Restriction Period, Grantee shall not be permitted to sell, transfer, pledge, encumber, assign or dispose of the Restricted Shares. The Restricted Shares granted hereunder shall be deemed to be subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture within the meaning of Section 83 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Transferability
     6. . If the Company shall be required to withhold any federal, state, local or foreign tax in connection with the Restricted Shares, Grantee shall pay or make provision satisfactory to the Company for payment of all such taxes.
Withholding Taxes
     7. . The grant is a voluntary, discretionary bonus being made on a one-time basis and it does not constitute a commitment to make any future awards. The grant and any related payments made to Grantee will not be considered salary or other compensation for purposes of any severance pay or similar allowance, except as otherwise required by law. Nothing contained herein will not confer upon Grantee any right with respect to continuance of employment or other service with the Company or any Subsidiary, nor will it interfere in any way with any right the Company or any Subsidiary would otherwise have to terminate Grantee's employment or other service at any time.
No Right to Future Awards or Employment
     8. . If any provision of this grant or the application of any provision hereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal, the remainder of this grant and the application of such provision to any other person or circumstances shall not be affected, and the provisions so held to be invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal shall be reformed to the extent (and only to the extent) necessary to make it enforceable, valid and legal.
Severability
     9. This grant shall be governed by and construed with the internal substantive laws of the State of Ohio, without giving effect to any principle of law that would result in the application of the law of any other jurisdiction.
Governing Law.
 
     10. . Grantee acknowledges and agrees that the terms and conditions set forth in The Sherwin-Williams Company Executive Compensation Adjustment and Recapture Policy ("Policy") are incorporated in this Restricted Stock Grant by reference. To the extent the Policy is applicable to Grantee, it creates additional rights for the Company with respect to Grantee's Restricted Shares.
Application of The Sherwin-Williams Company Executive Compensation Adjustment and Recapture Policy
 
Average Return on Average Equity
:
Example 1
     (Assuming a three year Measurement Period)
 
Cumulative Earnings Per Share
Add the Earnings Per Share (EPS) with respect to each fiscal year of the Company beginning with or immediately prior to each year of the Measurement Period.
:
Example 2

EXHIBIT 10(d)
     1. The Board of Directors (the "Board") of The Sherwin-Williams Company (the "Company") grants to you (the "Grantee") the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock, $1.00 par value, of the Company set forth above (the "Restricted Shares") in accordance with the terms hereof and of The Sherwin-Williams Company 2006 Stock Plan for Nonemployee Directors (the "Plan"). Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan.
Grant of Restricted Shares.
     2. (A) The Restricted Shares shall vest to the extent of one-third of the shares after Grantee has continuously served as a member of the Board for one full year from the Date of Grant and additional one-third of the shares after each of the next two successive full years thereafter during which Grantee shall have continuously served as a member of the Board (the "Restriction Period").
Vesting of Restricted Shares.
          (B) Notwithstanding Section 2(A) above, in the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company, as defined below, during the Restriction Period the full number of the shares of Restricted Shares shall immediately vest.
     3. (A) On the date Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board at any time during the Restriction Period, Grantee shall forfeit and lose all rights to the Restricted Shares, except as otherwise provided below:
Termination of Right to Restricted Shares.
     (i) In the event of the death of Grantee during the Restriction Period, the full number of Restricted Shares shall immediately vest.
     (ii) In the event Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board as a result of a "Disability" due to sickness or bodily injury during the Restriction Period, the full number of Restricted Shares shall immediately vest. The term "Disability" as used in this grant means permanent and total disability within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as the same has been or may be amended from time to time.
     (iii) In the event Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board by reason of Retirement, all rights of Grantee under this grant shall continue as if Grantee had continued as a member of the Board. The term "Retirement" as used in this grant means
 
termination of Grantee's status as a member of the Board at or after attaining the age of sixty-five (65) or completing either five (5) years of service or five (5) one year terms as a member of the Board by reason of resignation from the Board or by reason of not standing for reelection as a member of the Board.
          (B) In the event that Grantee knowingly or willfully engages in misconduct during the Restriction Period, which is materially harmful to the interests of the Company or a Subsidiary as determined by the Board, all rights of Grantee in the Restricted Shares shall terminate.
     4. Within a reasonable time following the Date of Grant, the Company shall instruct its transfer agent to establish a book entry account representing the Restricted Shares in Grantee's name effective as of the Date of Grant, provided that the Company shall retain control over the account until the Restricted Shares have vested. On the Date of Grant, ownership of the Restricted Shares shall immediately transfer to Grantee and, except for the substantial risk of forfeiture and the restrictions on transfer expressly set forth herein, Grantee shall be entitled to all voting, dividend, distribution and other ownership rights as may apply to the Common Stock generally. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any stock dividends or other in-kind dividends or distributions shall be held by the Company until the related Restricted Shares have become vested in accordance with this grant and shall remain subject to the forfeiture provisions applicable to the Restricted Shares to which such dividends or distributions relate.
Book Entry Account; Stockholder Rights.
     5. A "Change of Control" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change of Control.
          (A) any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") is or become the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock of the Company; provider, however, that:
     (i) for purposes of this Section 5, the following acquisitions will not constitute a Change in Control: (1) any acquisition of voting stock directly from Company that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors, (2) any acquisition of voting stock by Company or any Subsidiary, (3) any acquisition of voting stock by the trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Company or any Subsidiary, and (4) any acquisition of voting stock by any Person pursuant to a Business Transaction that complies with clauses (1), (2) and (3) of Section 5(a)(iii) below;
     (ii) if any Person is or becomes the beneficial owner of 30% or more of combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock as a result of a transaction described in clause (1) of Section 5(A)(i) above and such Person thereafter becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of voting stock representing 1% or more of the then-outstanding voting stock, other than in an acquisition directly from Company that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors or other than as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or similar transaction effected by Company in which all holders of voting stock are treated equally, such subsequent acquisition shall be treated as a Change in Control; or
     (iii) a Change in Control will not be deemed to have occurred if a
 
Person is or becomes the beneficial owner of 30% or more of the voting stock as a result of a reduction in the number of shares of voting stock outstanding pursuant to a transaction or series of transactions that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors unless and until such Person thereafter becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of voting stock representing 1% or more of the then-outstanding voting stock, other than as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or similar transaction effected by Company in which all holders of voting stock are treated equally; and
     (iv) if at least a majority of the Incumbent Directors determine in good faith that a Person has acquired beneficial ownership of 30% or more of the voting stock inadvertently, and such Person divests as promptly as practicable but no later than the date, if any, set by the Incumbent Board a sufficient number of shares so that such Person beneficially owns less than 30% of the voting stock, then no Change in Control shall have occurred as a result of such Person's acquisition; or
          (B) a majority of the Board ceases to be comprised of Incumbent Directors; or
          (C) the consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Company or the acquisition of the stock or assets of another corporation, or other transaction (each, a "Business Transaction"), unless, in each case, immediately following such Business Transaction (1) the voting stock outstanding immediately prior to such Business Transaction continues to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting stock of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of voting stock of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction (including, without limitation, an entity which as a result of such transaction owns Company or all or substantially all of Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (2) no Person (other than Company, such entity resulting from such Business Transaction, or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Company, any Subsidiary or such entity resulting from such Business Transaction) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of voting stock of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction, and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction were Incumbent Directors at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business Transaction; or
          (D) approval by the shareholders of Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of Company, except pursuant to a Business Transaction that complies with clauses (1), (2) and (3) of Section 5(C).
For purposes of this Section 5, the term "Incumbent Directors" shall mean, during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board and any new director (other than a director initially elected or nominated as a director as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies by or on behalf of such director) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved.
     6. . During the Restriction Period, Grantee shall not be permitted to
Transferability
 
sell, transfer, pledge, encumber, assign or dispose of the Restricted Shares. The Restricted Shares granted hereunder shall be deemed to be subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture within the meaning of Section 83 of the Internal Revenue Code.
     7. . If the Company shall be required to withhold any federal, state, local or foreign tax in connection with the Restricted Shares, Grantee shall pay or make provision satisfactory to the Company for payment of all such taxes.
Withholding Taxes
     8. . The grant is a voluntary, discretionary bonus being made on a one-time basis and it does not constitute a commitment to make any future awards. This grant will not confer upon Grantee any right with respect to continuance of service as a member of the Board, nor will it interfere in any way with any right the Company would otherwise have to terminate Grantee's service at any time.
No Right to Future Awards or Service
     9. . If any provision of this grant or the application of any provision hereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal, the remainder of this grant and the application of such provision to any other person or circumstances shall not be affected, and the provisions so held to be invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal shall be reformed to the extent (and only to the extent) necessary to make it enforceable, valid and legal.
Severability
     10. This grant shall be governed by and construed with the internal substantive laws of the State of Ohio, without giving effect to any principle of law that would result in the application of the law of any other jurisdiction.
Governing Law.

EXHIBIT 10(e)
     This Indemnity Agreement (this "Agreement") is made as of this 1st day of May, 2010 by and between The Sherwin-Williams Company, an Ohio corporation ("the Company"), and Allen J. Mistysyn (the "Indemnitee").
     the Indemnitee has agreed to serve or to continue to serve in one or more of the following capacities: as a director, officer, employee or agent (an "Official") of the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries and in such capacity will render valuable services to the Company;
WHEREAS,
     the Company has investigated the sufficiency of liability insurance and Ohio statutory indemnification provisions to provide its Officials and its subsidiaries' Officials with adequate protection against various legal risks and potential liabilities to which such individuals are subject due to their position with the Company or its subsidiaries and has concluded that such insurance and statutory provisions may provide inadequate and unacceptable protection;
WHEREAS,
     the Company has further determined that its prior form of indemnification agreement entered into with certain of its Officials should be replaced with a new form of indemnity agreement;
WHEREAS,
     in order to induce and encourage highly experienced and capable persons such as the Indemnitee to serve as Officials of the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries, the Board of Directors has determined, after due consideration and investigation of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the various other options available to the Company and the Indemnitee in lieu hereof, that this Agreement is not only reasonable and prudent but necessary to promote and ensure the best interests of the Company, its subsidiaries and its shareholders;
WHEREAS,
     , the parties agree that it is their intent that the Company indemnify the Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law and, therefore, that this Agreement be construed and enforced to effectuate such intent; and
WHEREAS
     , to the extent that a change in Ohio law or the laws of any other jurisdiction under which the Company is organized at the time (whether by statute or judicial decision) permits greater indemnification by agreement than would be afforded currently under the Regulations of the Company and this Agreement, it is the further intent of the parties hereto that Indemnitee enjoy by this Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by such change.
WHEREAS
     in consideration of the services of the Indemnitee and in order to induce the Indemnitee to serve or continue to serve as an Official of the Company
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
or one or more of its subsidiaries and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally binding hereby, the Company and the Indemnitee do hereby agree as follows:
     1. . The Indemnitee agrees to serve as an Official of the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries for so long as the Indemnitee is duly elected or appointed, or until such time as the Indemnitee tenders the Indemnitee's resignation in writing or is otherwise removed from the Indemnitee's position, or until Indemnitee's relationship and/or employment with the Company is terminated.
Agreement to Serve
     2. . The Company shall indemnify the Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2 if, whether prior to, on or after the date of this Agreement, the Indemnitee is or has been a party to or threatened to be made a party to or otherwise involved in any Proceeding (other than a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor), by reason of or arising out of the fact that the Indemnitee is or was an Official of the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries, or is or was serving at the request of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company as an Official, trustee, member or manager of another corporation, domestic or foreign, nonprofit or for profit, a limited liability company, or partnership, joint venture, trust, or other enterprise ("Another Enterprise"), or in relation to any action taken or omitted by the Indemnitee on behalf of the Company, one or more of its subsidiaries or Another Enterprise, against all Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and ERISA excise taxes actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with the defense or settlement (provided that any settlement be approved in writing by the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) of such Proceeding, to the highest and most advantageous extent to the Indemnitee, as determined by the Indemnitee, of one or any combination of the following:
Indemnification in Third Party Actions
          (a) The benefits provided by the Company's Regulations, as amended (the "Regulations") in effect on the date hereof, a copy of the relevant provisions of which are attached hereto as Exhibit A;
          (b) The benefits provided by the Company's Amended Articles of Incorporation, as further amended, and the Regulations in effect at the time the Proceeding is initiated or the Expenses are incurred by the Indemnitee;
          (c) The benefits allowable under Ohio law in effect at the date hereof;
          (d) The benefits allowable under the laws of the jurisdiction under which the Company is organized at the time the Proceeding is initiated or the Expenses are incurred by the Indemnitee;
          (e) The benefits available under any liability insurance obtained by the Company; and
 
          (f) Such other benefits as are or may be otherwise available to the Indemnitee.
     Combination of two or more of the benefits provided by clauses (a) through (f) shall be available to the extent that the Applicable Documents, as hereinafter defined, do not require that the benefits provided therein be exclusive of other benefits. The document or law providing for the benefits listed in clauses (a) through (f) above is called the "Applicable Document" in this Agreement. The Company hereby undertakes to use its best efforts to assist the Indemnitee, in all proper and legal ways, to obtain the benefits selected by Indemnitee under clauses (a) through (f) above.
     3. . The Company shall indemnify the Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3 if, whether prior to, on or after the date of this Agreement, the Indemnitee is or has been a party to or threatened to be made a party to or otherwise involved in any Proceeding by or in the right of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of or arising out of the fact that Indemnitee was or is an Official of the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries, or is or was serving at the request of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company as an Official, trustee, member or manager of Another Enterprise, or in relation to any action taken or omitted by the Indemnitee on behalf of the Company, one or more of its subsidiaries or Another Enterprise, against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with the defense or settlement of such Proceeding, to the same extent provided in Section 2 above.
Indemnification in Proceedings by or in the Right of the Company
     4. .
Conclusive Presumption Regarding Standard of Conduct
          (a) The Indemnitee shall be conclusively presumed to have met the relevant standards of conduct as defined by the Applicable Documents for indemnification pursuant to this Agreement, unless a determination is made that the Indemnitee has not met such standards by (i) the Board of Directors of the Company by a majority vote of a quorum thereof consisting of Directors who were not parties, or are not threatened to be made parties, to such Proceeding or any other Proceeding arising from the same or similar facts ("Disinterested Directors"), (ii) if such a quorum is not obtainable or if such quorum is obtainable and a majority of such quorum directs, a written opinion by Independent Legal Counsel (compensated by the Company), or (iii) if there are no Disinterested Directors or if a majority of Disinterested Directors (whether or not a quorum) directs, the shareholders of the Company entitled to vote in the election of Directors by majority vote; provided, however, that any such determination to be made after a Change of Control shall be made only pursuant to clause (ii) if the Indemnitee so elects.
          (b) Prior to any decision under clauses (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, an Official will be given an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board of Directors if such decision is being made pursuant to clause (a)(i), or the Independent Legal Counsel if such decision is being made pursuant to clause (a)(ii).
 
          (c) The determination will be made as promptly as possible.
     5. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that the Indemnitee has been successful in defense of any Proceeding or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, on the merits or otherwise, including the dismissal of a Proceeding without prejudice, the Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses incurred in connection therewith to the fullest extent permitted by any Applicable Document.
Indemnification of Expenses of Successful Party
     6. . The Expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in any Proceeding shall be paid by the Company within twenty days of the written request of the Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by any Applicable Document; provided that the Indemnitee shall undertake in writing, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, to repay such amount to the extent that it is ultimately determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under the Applicable Document.
Advances of Expenses
     7. . If the Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of the Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties or ERISA excise taxes actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee in the investigation, defense, appeal or settlement of any Proceeding but not, however, for the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify the Indemnitee for the portion of such Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties or ERISA excise taxes to which the Indemnitee is entitled.
Partial Indemnification
     8. .
Indemnification Procedure; Determination of Right to Indemnification
          (a) Promptly after receipt by the Indemnitee of written notice of the commencement of any Proceeding, the Indemnitee will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the Company under this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the commencement thereof. The omission so to notify the Company will relieve it from any liability which it may have to the Indemnitee under this Agreement only to the extent that the Company is able to establish that its ability to avoid such liability was materially prejudiced by such omission. Any such omission, however, will not relieve the Company from any liability which it may have to the Indemnitee otherwise than under this Agreement.
          (b) If a claim under this Agreement is not paid by the Company within twenty days of receipt of written notice, the right to indemnification as provided by this Agreement shall be enforceable by the Indemnitee in any court of competent jurisdiction. The burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that indemnification or advances are not appropriate shall be on the Company. Neither the failure of the Board of Directors, the shareholders of the Company or Independent Legal Counsel to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification or advances are proper in the circumstances because the Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual determination by the Board of Directors, the shareholders of the
 
Company or Independent Legal Counsel that the Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action that the Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct, nor shall such failure or determination create a presumption that the Indemnitee has or has not met the applicable standard.
          (c) The Indemnitee's Expenses incurred in connection with any proceeding concerning the Indemnitee's right to indemnification or advancement of expenses in whole or in part pursuant to this Agreement shall also be indemnified by the Company regardless of the outcome of such proceeding, unless a court of competent jurisdiction determines that the material assertions made by the Indemnitee in such proceeding were not made in good faith or were frivolous.
          (d) With respect to any Proceeding for which indemnification is requested, the Company will be entitled to participate therein at its own expense and, except as otherwise provided below, to the extent that it may wish, the Company may assume the defense thereof, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnitee. After notice from the Company to the Indemnitee of its election to assume the defense of a Proceeding, the Company will not be liable to the Indemnitee under this Agreement for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with defense thereof, other than reasonable costs of investigation or as otherwise provided below. The Company shall not settle any Proceeding in any manner which would impose any penalty or limitation on the Indemnitee without the Indemnitee's written consent. The Indemnitee shall give the Company such cooperation as the Company may reasonably request and as shall be within the Indemnitee's power. The Indemnitee shall have the right to employ the Indemnitee's counsel in any Proceeding but the fees and expenses of such counsel incurred after written notice from the Company of its assumption of the defense thereof shall be at the expense of the Indemnitee, unless (i) the employment of counsel by the Indemnitee has been authorized by the Company, (ii) the Indemnitee shall have reasonably concluded that there may be a conflict of interest between the Company and the Indemnitee in the conduct of a Proceeding, or (iii) the Company shall not in fact have employed counsel to assume the defense of a proceeding, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of the Indemnitee's counsel shall be at the expense of the Company. The Company shall not be entitled to assume or control the defense of any Proceeding brought by or on behalf of the Company or as to which the Indemnitee has made the reasonable conclusion that there may be a conflict of interest between the Company and the Indemnitee.
     9. . No payments pursuant to this Agreement shall be made by the Company:
Limitations on Indemnification
          (a) To indemnify or advance Expenses to the Indemnitee with respect to Proceedings initiated or brought voluntarily by the Indemnitee, except with respect to Proceedings brought to establish or enforce a right to indemnification under this Agreement or any other statute or law, but such indemnification or advancement of Expenses may be provided by the Company in specific cases if the Board of Directors finds it to be appropriate;
 
          (b) To indemnify the Indemnitee for any Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties or ERISA excise taxes for which payment is actually made to the Indemnitee under a valid and collectible insurance policy or under any other agreement, contract or otherwise, except in respect of any excess beyond the amount of payment under such insurance or under any such agreement, contract or otherwise;
          (c) To indemnify or advance to the Indemnitee for any Expenses, judgments, fines or penalties sustained in any Proceeding for an accounting of profits made from the purchase or sale by Indemnitee of securities of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder and amendments thereto or similar provisions of any federal, state or local statutory law;
          (d) To indemnify the Indemnitee for any Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties or ERISA excise taxes resulting from the Indemnitee's conduct which is finally adjudged to have been willful misconduct, knowingly fraudulent or deliberately dishonest; or
          (e) If a court of competent jurisdiction shall finally determine that any indemnification hereunder is unlawful.
     10. . To the extent the Company maintains an insurance policy or policies providing directors' and officers' liability insurance ("D&O Insurance"), the Indemnitee shall be named as an insured under such D&O Insurance in such a manner as to provide the Indemnitee the same rights and benefits as are accorded to the most favorably insured of the Company's directors and/or officers, as appropriate, under such D&O Insurance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall have no obligation to obtain or maintain D&O Insurance.
Maintenance of Liability Insurance
     11. . No Proceeding shall be brought and no cause of action shall be asserted by or on behalf of the Company or any subsidiary against the Indemnitee, the Indemnitee's spouse, heirs, estate, executors or administrators after the expiration of two years from the earlier of (i) the date the Company or any subsidiary of the Company discovers the facts underlying such cause of action, or (ii) the date the Company or any subsidiary of the Company could have discovered such facts by the exercise of reasonable diligence; provided, however, this sentence shall not be deemed to waive or toll any statute of limitations that otherwise might apply. Any claim or cause of action of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, including claims predicated upon the negligent act or omission of the Indemnitee, shall be extinguished and deemed released unless asserted by filing of a legal action within such period. This section shall not apply to any cause of action which has accrued on the date hereof and of which the Indemnitee is aware on the date hereof, but as to which the Company has no actual knowledge apart from the Indemnitee's knowledge.
Limitation of Actions and Release of Claims
 
     12. . As collateral security for its obligations hereunder and under similar agreements with other Officials, within the earlier of (i) five (5) business days after the occurrence of an event that in the reasonable opinion of the Board of Directors will likely result in a Change of Control or (ii) the occurrence of an actual Change of Control, the Company shall dedicate and maintain, for a period of six (6) years or such longer time as is necessary for the final disposition of any Proceeding existing at the expiration of such six year period, an escrow account in such aggregate amount as is reasonably calculated to be sufficient to satisfy any and all Expenses reasonably anticipated in connection with any and all Proceedings, which in no event shall be less than Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000), by depositing assets or bank letters of credit in escrow that may be drawn down by an escrow agent in said amount (the "Escrow Reserve"). Promptly following the establishment of the Escrow Reserve, the Company shall (i) provide the Indemnitee with a true and complete copy of the Agreement relating to the establishment and operation of the Escrow Reserve, together with such additional documentation or information with respect to the Escrow Reserve as the Indemnitee may from time to time reasonably request, (ii) deliver an executed copy of this Agreement to the escrow agent for the Escrow Reserve to evidence to such agent that the Indemnitee is a beneficiary of the Escrow Reserve, and (iii) deliver to the Indemnitee the agent's signed receipt evidencing delivery of the Agreement to the agent. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 12, any assets deposited by the Company in the Escrow Reserve shall at all times be and remain subject to the claims of the general creditors of the Company. If prior to the date of a Change of Control, the Board of Directors has actual knowledge that all third parties have abandoned or terminated their efforts to effect a Change of Control and a Change of Control at that time is unlikely and the Board of Directors so advises the escrow agent, the assets and letters of credit comprising the Escrow Reserve, if any, and any interest earned thereon, shall be returned to the Company by the escrow agent.
Change of Control
     13. . The indemnification provided by this Agreement shall not be exclusive of, and shall be in addition to, any other rights to which the Indemnitee may be entitled under the Company's or any subsidiary's articles of incorporation, bylaws or regulations, or any vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or applicable law, both as to action in the Indemnitee's official capacity and as to action in another capacity on behalf of the Company or any subsidiary while holding such office or position.
Indemnification Hereunder Not Exclusive
     14. . This Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of the Indemnitee and the Indemnitee's heirs, executors, administrators, personal representatives and assigns, and the Company, its successors (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, operation of law, or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, and its assigns.
Successors and Assigns
     15. . Each provision of this Agreement is a separate and distinct agreement and independent of the others, so that if any provision hereof shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect
Separability
 
the validity or enforceability of the other provisions hereof. To the extent required, any provision of this Agreement may be modified by a court of competent jurisdiction to preserve its validity and to provide the Indemnitee with the broadest possible indemnification permitted under applicable law.
     16. . This Agreement, together with all exhibits hereto, constitutes the entire understanding and agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and all prior negotiations, correspondence, agreements, understandings, duties or obligations with respect to the subject matter hereof; provided, however, that if this Agreement, in its entirety, is held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the indemnification agreement, if any, between the Company and the Indemnitee which was in effect immediately prior to the execution of this Agreement shall govern.
Entire Agreement
     17. . This Agreement shall be construed as a whole and in accordance with its fair meaning. Headings are for convenience only and shall not be used in construing meaning. This Agreement shall be governed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio without regard to principles of conflicts of laws thereof. The party bringing any action under this Agreement shall only be entitled to choose the federal or state courts in the State of Ohio as the venue for such action, and each party consents to the jurisdiction of the court chosen in such manner for such action.
Interpretation; Governing Law; Venue
     18. . No amendment, waiver, modification, termination or cancellation of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought. The indemnification rights afforded to the Indemnitee hereby are contract rights and may not be diminished, eliminated or otherwise affected by amendments to the Company's or any subsidiary's charter, bylaws or regulations (or similar constitutive documents) or by amendments to any agreements other than agreements executed by the Indemnitee that expressly refer to this Agreement.
Amendments
     19. . The Indemnitee agrees that no director, officer, employee, representative or agent of the Company or any of its subsidiaries shall be personally liable for the satisfaction of the Company's obligations under this Agreement, and Indemnitee shall look solely to the assets of the Company for satisfaction of any claims hereunder.
No Personal Liability
     20. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each party and delivered to the other.
Counterparts
     21. . All notices, demands, requests, or other communications which may be or are required to be given, served or sent by either party to the other party pursuant to this Agreement, shall be in writing and shall be hand delivered, sent by express mail or other overnight delivery service or mailed by registered or certified mail, return
Notices
 
receipt requested, postage prepaid, or transmitted by telegram, telex or telecopy, addressed as follows:
          If to the Company:
The Sherwin-Williams Company 101 West Prospect Avenue Cleveland, Ohio 44115 Attn: Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Telecopier No.: (216) 566-2947
          If to the Indemnitee:
To the Indemnitee's last known address
     Each party may designate by notice in writing a new address (or substitute additional persons) to which any notice, demand, request or communication may thereafter be so given, served or sent. Each notice, demand, request, or communication which shall be mailed, sent, delivered, telefaxed or telexed in the manner described above, or which shall be delivered to a telegraph company, shall be deemed sufficiently given, served, sent or received for all purposes at such time as it is delivered to the addressee (with the return receipt, the delivery receipt or, with respect to a telex or telefax, the answer back being deemed conclusive evidence of such delivery) or at such time as delivery is refused by the addressee upon presentation.
     22. . In the event of payment under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of the Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and shall do everything that may be necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Company effectively to bring suit to enforce such rights.
Subrogation
     23. . Neither this Agreement nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed either (i) as a contract of employment or (ii) as giving Indemnitee any right to be retained in the employ or otherwise as an Official.
Not Employment Contract
     24. As used herein the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
.
          (a) The term "" shall include any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether brought in the name of the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries, or otherwise, and whether of a civil, criminal or administrative or investigative nature, or otherwise, and whether formal or informal, by reason of or arising out of the fact that the Indemnitee is or was an Official of the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries, or is or was serving at the request of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company as an Official, trustee, member or manager of Another Enterprise, or relating in any way to any actions taken or omitted by the Indemnitee on behalf of the
Proceeding
 
Company, one or more of its subsidiaries or Another Enterprise, in all cases whether or not the Indemnitee is serving in such capacity at the time any liability or Expenses are incurred for which indemnification or reimbursement is to be provided under this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, references to "Another Enterprise" shall include, without limitation, employee benefit plans for employees of the Company or its subsidiaries without regard to ownership of such plans.
          (b) The term "" shall include, without limitation, attorneys' fees, disbursements and retainers, accounting and witness fees, travel and deposition costs, expenses of investigations, judicial or administrative proceedings or appeals, amounts paid in settlement (provided that any settlement be approved in writing by the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) by or on behalf of the Indemnitee, and any expenses of establishing a right to indemnification, pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise.
Expenses
          (c) The term "" shall mean legal counsel retained jointly by, and mutually acceptable to, the Company and the Indemnitee. The Indemnitee and the Company each may submit no more than three (3) candidates for the position of Independent Legal Counsel. All candidates shall disclose to the Indemnitee and the Company any circumstances likely to affect his or her impartiality, including, without limitation, bias, interest in the resolution of the Proceeding, and past or present relations with the Indemnitee, the employer of the Indemnitee or the Company. Under no circumstances shall the Independent Legal Counsel be (or have been during the six (6) year period prior to the date of such appointment) a relative, employee, officer, director or shareholder of either the Indemnitee, the employer of the Indemnitee or the Company, or an Affiliate of the employer of the Indemnitee or the Company. Each party may reject a candidate for good cause, such as reasonable concern regarding that candidate's independence, impartiality, access to confidential information or failure to meet agreed upon qualifications. Once Independent Legal Counsel has been selected and jointly retained by the parties, the Company shall pay all costs and expenses of such counsel. Independent Legal Counsel may retain such additional experts as he or she determines are necessary or useful for the rendering of his or her advice, provided that he or she in good faith determines, after notifying the Company and the Indemnitee of the selection of such expert and soliciting any objections either party might have, that such expert does not appear to have a conflict of interest. Circumstances that might cause doubt regarding the expert's independence or impartiality include bias, interest in the result of any Proceeding, and past or present relations with the Indemnitee, the employer of the Indemnitee (including an Affiliate of such employer), the Company (including an Affiliate of the Company) or their respective counsels. Under no circumstances shall any such expert be (or have been during the six (6) year period prior to the selection of the Independent Legal Counsel) a relative, employee, officer, director or shareholder of the Indemnitee, the employer of the Indemnitee or an Affiliate of such employer, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, or an individual otherwise providing material services to the Indemnitee, the employer of the Indemnitee or the Company, or an Affiliate of the employer of the Indemnitee or the Company.
Independent Legal Counsel
 
          (d) A person (as such term is used in Section 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act shall be deemed the "" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities:
Beneficial Owner
               (i) which such person or any of such person's "Affiliates" or "Associates" (as such terms are defined in Rule 12b-2, as in effect on April 23, 1997, of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act) is considered to be a "beneficial owner" under Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect on April 23, 1997;
               (ii) which such person or any of such person's Affiliates or Associates, directly or indirectly, has or shares the right to acquire, hold, vote (except pursuant to a revocable proxy as described in the proviso to this Section 24(d)) or dispose of such securities (whether any such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing), or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a person shall not be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such person or any of such person's Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange; or
               (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other person (or any Affiliate or Associate of such other person) with which such person (or any of such person's Affiliates or Associates) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing), with respect to acquiring, holding, voting (except as described in the proviso to this Section 24(d)) or disposing of any securities of the Company;
provided, however, that a person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, nor to beneficially own, any security if such person has the right to vote such security pursuant to an agreement, arrangement or understanding which (A) arises solely from a revocable proxy given to such person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, and (B) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D (or any comparable or successor report) under the Exchange Act; and provided, further, that nothing, in this Section 24(d) shall cause a person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities to be the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any securities acquired through such person's participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty (40) days after the date of such acquisition or such later date as the Board of Directors may determine in any specific case.
          (e) "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
               (i) any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") is or becomes the beneficial
 
owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock of Company; provided, however, that:
          (A) for purposes of this Section 24(e), the following acquisitions will not constitute a Change in Control: (1) any acquisition of voting stock directly from Company that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors, (2) any acquisition of voting stock by Company or any Subsidiary, (3) any acquisition of voting stock by the trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Company or any Subsidiary, and (4) any acquisition of voting stock by any Person pursuant to a Business Transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 24(e)(iii) below;
          (B) if any Person is or becomes the beneficial owner of 30% or more of combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock as a result of a transaction described in clause (1) of Section 24(e)(i)(A) above and such Person thereafter becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of voting stock representing 1% or more of the then-outstanding voting stock, other than in an acquisition directly from Company that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors or other than as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or similar transaction effected by Company in which all holders of voting stock are treated equally, such subsequent acquisition shall be treated as a Change in Control; or
          (C) a Change in Control will not be deemed to have occurred if a Person is or becomes the beneficial owner of 30% or more of the voting stock as a result of a reduction in the number of shares of voting stock outstanding pursuant to a transaction or series of transactions that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors unless and until such Person thereafter becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of voting stock representing 1% or more of the then-outstanding voting stock, other than as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or similar transaction effected by Company in which all holders of voting stock are treated equally; and
          (D) if at least a majority of the Incumbent Directors determine in good faith that a Person has acquired beneficial ownership of 30% or more of the voting stock inadvertently, and such Person divests as promptly as practicable but no later than the date, if any, set by the Incumbent Board a sufficient number of shares so that such Person beneficially owns less than 30% of the voting stock, then no Change in Control shall have occurred as a result of such Person's acquisition; or
 
               (ii) a majority of the Board ceases to be comprised of Incumbent Directors; or
               (iii) the consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Company or the acquisition of the stock or assets of another corporation, or other transaction (each, a "Business Transaction"), unless, in each case, immediately following such Business Transaction (A) the voting stock outstanding immediately prior to such Business Transaction continues to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting stock of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of voting stock of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction (including, without limitation, an entity which as a result of such transaction owns Company or all or substantially all of Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (B) no Person (other than Company, such entity resulting from such Business Transaction, or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Company, any Subsidiary or such entity resulting from such Business Transaction) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of voting stock of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction were Incumbent Directors at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business Transaction; or
               (iv) approval by the shareholders of Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of Company, except pursuant to a Business Transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 24(e)(iii).
               (v) For purposes of this Section 24(e), the term "Incumbent Directors" shall mean, during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board and any new director (other than a director initially elected or nominated as a director as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies by or on behalf of such director) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have entered into this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
     
Section 1.
Indemnification
          (a) The Company shall indemnify, to the full extent then permitted by law, any Director or officer or former Director or officer of the Company who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that the individual is or was a Director or an officer, employee or agent of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, trustee, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise. The Company shall pay, to the full extent then required by law, expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by a Director in defending any such action, suit or proceeding as they are incurred, in advance of the final disposition thereof.
          (b) To the full extent then permitted by law, the Company may indemnify employees, agents and other persons and may pay expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by any employee, agent or other person in defending any action, suit or proceeding as such expenses are incurred, in advance of the final disposition thereof.
          (c) The indemnification and payment of expenses provided by this section shall not be exclusive of, and shall be in addition to, any other rights granted to any person seeking indemnification under any law, the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, any agreement, vote of shareholders or of disinterested Directors, or otherwise, both as to action in official capacities and as to action in another capacity while he or she is a Director or an officer, employee or agent of the Company, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a Director, trustee, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors, and administrators of such a person.
     
Section 2.
Liability Insurance
          (a) The Company may purchase and maintain insurance or furnish similar protection, including but not limited to trust funds, letters of credit or self-insurance, on behalf of or for any person who is or was a Director, officer, employee or designated agent of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or designated agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article or of Chapter 1701 of the Ohio Revised Code. Insurance may be purchased from or maintained with a person in whom the Company has a financial interest.
          (b) The Company is expressly authorized to enter into any indemnification or insurance agreements with or on behalf of any person who is or was a Director, officer, employee or designated agent of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or designated agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, in accordance with the terms of this Article IV or the laws of the State of Ohio. Such agreements may include, but are not limited to agreements providing for indemnification or the advancement of expenses under Section 1 of this Article IV, agreements providing for insurance, indemnification or the advancement of expenses by way of self-insurance, whether or not funded through the use of a trust,
 
escrow agreement, letter of credit, etc., in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, and agreements providing for insurance or indemnification through the commercial insurance market.
     
Section 3.
Limitation of Liability
          (a) No person shall be found to have violated his duties to the Company as a Director of the Company in any action brought against such Director (including actions involving or affecting any of the following: (i) a change or potential change in control of the Company; (ii) a termination or potential termination of his service to the Company as a Director; or (iii) his service in any other position or relationship with the Company), unless it is proved by clear and convincing evidence that the Director has not acted in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believes to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, or with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this paragraph (a) limits relief available under Section 1701.60 of the Ohio Revised Code.
          (b) In performing his duties, a Director shall be entitled to rely on information, opinions, reports, or statements, including financial statements and other financial data, that are prepared or presented by: (i) one or more Directors, officers or employees of the Company whom the Director reasonably believes are reliable and competent in the matters prepared or presented; (ii) counsel, public accountants, or other persons as to matters that the Director reasonably believes are within the person's professional or expert competence; or (iii) a committee of the Directors upon which he does not serve, duly established in accordance with the provisions of these Regulations, as to matters within its designated authority, which committee the Director reasonably believes to merit confidence.
          (c) A Director in determining what he reasonably believes to be in the best interests of the Company shall consider the interests of the Company's shareholders and, in his discretion, may consider (i) the interests of the Company's employees, suppliers, creditors and customers; (ii) the economy of the state and nation; (iii) community and societal considerations; and (iv) the long-term as well as short-term interests of the Company and its shareholders, including the possibility that these interests may be best served by the continued independence of the Company.
          (d) A Director shall be liable in damages for any action he takes or fails to take as a Director only if it is proved by clear and convincing evidence in a court of competent jurisdiction that his action or failure to act involved an act or omission undertaken with deliberate intent to cause injury to the Company or undertaken with reckless disregard for the best interests of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this paragraph (d) affects the liability of Directors under Section 1701.95 of the Ohio Revised Code or limits relief available under Section 1701.60 of the Ohio Revised Code.
 
     THIS UNDERTAKING has been entered into by (the "Indemnitee") pursuant to an Indemnity Agreement, dated (the "Indemnity Agreement"), between The Sherwin-Williams Company (the "Company") and the Indemnitee.
                    
                    
     , pursuant to the Indemnity Agreement, the Company has agreed to pay Expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in any Proceeding involving the Indemnitee; and
WHEREAS
     , such a Proceeding has arisen involving the Indemnitee, and the Indemnitee has notified the Company thereof in accordance with the terms of the Indemnity Agreement.
WHEREAS
     , the Indemnitee hereby agrees that in consideration of Company's advance payment of the Indemnitee's Expenses incurred prior to a final disposition of the Proceeding, the Indemnitee hereby undertakes to repay to the Company any and all Expenses paid by the Company on behalf of the Indemnitee prior to a final disposition of the Proceeding to the extent it is ultimately determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under the Applicable Document. Such reimbursement or arrangements for reimbursement by the Indemnitee shall be consummated within ninety (90) days after a determination that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under the Applicable Document. Indemnitee agrees to reasonably cooperate with the Company concerning any Proceeding. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Indemnity Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has set his hand this day of , .
     
                    
          

EXHIBIT 10(f)
     (this "Agreement"), dated as of May 1, 2010 (the "Effective Date"), is made and entered into by and between , an Ohio corporation ("Company") and ("Executive").
THIS SEVERANCE AGREEMENT
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY
ALLEN J. MISTYSYN
     , Company and Executive agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
     1. . In addition to terms defined elsewhere herein, the following terms have the following meanings when used in this Agreement with initial capital letters:
Certain Defined Terms
          (a) "Base Pay" means Executive's annual base salary rate as in effect from time to time.
          (b) "Board" means the Board of Directors of Company.
          (c) "Cause" means that, prior to any termination pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii), Executive shall have:
          (i) been convicted of a criminal violation involving, in each case, fraud, embezzlement or theft in connection with Executive's duties or in the course of Executive's employment with Company or any Subsidiary;
 
          (ii) committed intentional wrongful damage to property of Company or any Subsidiary; or
          (iii) committed intentional wrongful disclosure of secret processes or confidential information of Company or any Subsidiary;
and any such act shall have been demonstrably and materially harmful to Company. For purposes of this Agreement, no act or failure to act on the part of Executive will be deemed "intentional" if it was due primarily to an error in judgment or negligence, but will be deemed "intentional" only if done or omitted to be done by Executive not in good faith and without reasonable belief that Executive's action or omission was in the best interest of Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive will not be deemed to have been terminated for "Cause" hereunder unless and until there shall have been delivered to Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the Board then in office (excluding Executive if Executive is then a member of the Board) at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose, after reasonable notice to Executive and an opportunity for Executive, together with Executive's counsel (if Executive chooses to have counsel present at such meeting), to be heard before the Board, finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board, Executive had committed an act constituting "Cause" as herein defined and specifying the particulars thereof in reasonable detail. Nothing herein will limit the right of Executive or Executive's beneficiaries to contest the validity or propriety of any such determination.
          (d) "Change in Control" means the occurrence during the Term of any of the following events:
          (i) any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") is or becomes the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Stock of Company; , , that:
provided
however
     (1) for purposes of this Section 1(d)(i), the following acquisitions will not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition of Voting Stock directly from Company that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors, (B) any acquisition of Voting Stock by Company or any Subsidiary, (C) any acquisition of Voting Stock by the trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Company or any Subsidiary, and (D) any acquisition of Voting Stock by any Person pursuant to a Business Transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 1(d)(iii) below;
     (2) if any Person is or becomes the beneficial owner of 30% or more of combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Stock as a result of a transaction described in clause (A) of Section 1(d)(i)(1) above and such Person thereafter becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock representing 1% or more of the then-outstanding Voting Stock, other than in an acquisition directly from Company that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors or other than as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or similar transaction effected by Company in which all holders of Voting Stock are treated equally, such subsequent acquisition shall be treated as a Change in Control;
 
     (3) a Change in Control will not be deemed to have occurred if a Person is or becomes the beneficial owner of 30% or more of the Voting Stock as a result of a reduction in the number of shares of Voting Stock outstanding pursuant to a transaction or series of transactions that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors unless and until such Person thereafter becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock representing 1% or more of the then-outstanding Voting Stock, other than as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or similar transaction effected by Company in which all holders of Voting Stock are treated equally; and
     (4) if at least a majority of the Incumbent Directors determine in good faith that a Person has acquired beneficial ownership of 30% or more of the Voting Stock inadvertently, and such Person divests as promptly as practicable but no later than the date, if any, set by the Incumbent Board a sufficient number of shares so that such Person beneficially owns less than 30% of the Voting Stock, then no Change in Control shall have occurred as a result of such Person's acquisition; or
          (ii) a majority of the Board ceases to be comprised of Incumbent Directors; or
          (iii) the consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Company or the acquisition of the stock or assets of another corporation, or other transaction (each, a "Business Transaction"), unless, in each case, immediately following such Business Transaction (A) the Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Business Transaction continues to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting stock of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of voting stock of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction (including, without limitation, an entity which as a result of such transaction owns Company or all or substantially all of Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (B) no Person (other than Company, such entity resulting from such Business Transaction, or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Company, any Subsidiary or such entity resulting from such Business Transaction) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of voting stock of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction were Incumbent Directors at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business Transaction; or
          (iv) approval by the shareholders of Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of Company, except pursuant to a Business Transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 1(d)(iii).
          (v) For purposes of this Section 1(d), the term "Incumbent Directors" shall mean, during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board and any new director (other than a director initially elected or nominated as a director as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies by or on behalf of such director) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved.
 
          (e) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
          (f) "Common Shares" means shares of common stock, no par value, of Company.
          (g) "Employee Benefits" means the perquisites, benefits and service credit for benefits as provided under any and all employee retirement income and welfare benefit policies, plans, programs or arrangements in which Executive is entitled to participate, including without limitation any stock option, performance share, performance unit, stock purchase, stock appreciation, savings, pension, supplemental executive retirement, or other retirement income or welfare benefit, deferred compensation, incentive compensation, group or other life, health, medical/hospital or other insurance (whether funded by actual insurance or self-insured by Company or a Subsidiary), disability, salary continuation, expense reimbursement and other employee benefit policies, plans, programs or arrangements that may now exist or any equivalent successor policies, plans, programs or arrangements that may be adopted hereafter by Company or a Subsidiary, providing benefits and service credit for benefits at least as great in the aggregate as are payable thereunder immediately prior to a Change in Control.
          (h) "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
          (i) "Good Reason" means the occurrence of one or more of the following events:
          (i) Failure to elect or reelect or otherwise to maintain Executive in the office or the position, or a substantially equivalent or better office or position, of or with Company and/or a Subsidiary (or any successor thereto by operation of law or otherwise), as the case may be, which Executive held immediately prior to a Change in Control, or the removal of Executive as a Director of Company and/or a Subsidiary (or any successor thereto) if Executive shall have been a Director of Company and/or a Subsidiary immediately prior to the Change in Control;
          (ii) Failure of Company to remedy any of the following within 10 calendar days after receipt by Company of written notice thereof from Executive: (A) a significant adverse change in the nature or scope of the authorities, powers, functions, responsibilities or duties attached to the position with Company and any Subsidiary which Executive held immediately prior to the Change in Control, (B) a reduction in Executive's Base Pay received from Company and any Subsidiary, (C) a reduction in Executive's Incentive Pay opportunity as compared with the Incentive Pay opportunity most recently paid prior to the Change in Control, or (D) the termination or denial of Executive's rights to Employee Benefits or a reduction in the scope or value thereof;
          (iii) The liquidation, dissolution, merger, consolidation or reorganization of Company or the transfer of all or substantially all of its business and/or assets, unless the successor or successors (by liquidation, merger, consolidation, reorganization, transfer or otherwise) to which all or substantially all of its business and/or assets have been transferred (by operation of law or otherwise) assumed all duties and obligations of Company under this Agreement pursuant to Section 10(a);
          (iv) Company requires Executive to have Executive's principal location of work changed to any location that is in excess of 30 miles from the location thereof immediately prior to the Change in Control, or requires Executive to travel away from Executive's office in the course of discharging Executive's responsibilities or duties hereunder at least 20% more (in terms of aggregate days in any calendar year or in any calendar quarter when annualized for purposes of comparison to any prior year) than was
 
required of Executive in any of the three full years immediately prior to the Change in Control without, in either case, Executive's prior written consent; or
          (v) Without limiting the generality or effect of the foregoing, any material breach of this Agreement by Company or any successor thereto.
          (j) "Incentive Pay" means an annual bonus, incentive or other payment of compensation, in addition to Base Pay, made or to be made in regard to services rendered in any year pursuant to any bonus, incentive, profit-sharing, performance, discretionary pay or similar agreement, policy, plan, program or arrangement (whether or not funded) of Company or a Subsidiary, or any successor thereto. "Incentive Pay" does not include any stock option, stock appreciation, stock purchase, restricted stock, private equity, long-term incentive or similar plan, program, arrangement or grant, whether or not provided under a plan, program or arrangement described in the preceding sentence.
          (k) "Severance Period" means the period of time commencing on the date of the first occurrence of a Change in Control and continuing until the earlier of (i) the second anniversary of the occurrence of the Change in Control, or (ii) Executive's death;
          (l) "Subsidiary" means an entity in which Company directly or indirectly beneficially owns 50% or more of the outstanding voting stock of such entity.
          (m) "Term" means the period commencing as of the Effective Date and expiring on the close of business on December 31, 2010; , , that (i) commencing on January 1, 2011 and each January 1 thereafter, the term of this Agreement will automatically be extended for an additional year unless, not later than September 30 of the immediately preceding year, Company or Executive shall have given notice that Company or Executive, as the case may be, does not wish to have the Term extended; (ii) if a Change in Control occurs during the Term, the Term will expire on the last day of the Severance Period; and (iii) subject to Section 3(c), if, prior to a Change in Control, the Executive ceases for any reason to be a corporate officer or operating president of Company and any Subsidiary, thereupon without further action the Term shall be deemed to have expired and this Agreement will immediately terminate and be of no further effect. For purposes of this Section 1(m), the Executive shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an employee of Company and any Subsidiary by reason of the transfer of the Executive's employment between Company and any Subsidiary, or among any Subsidiaries.
provided
however
          (n) "Termination Date" means the date on which Executive's employment is terminated (the effective date of which will be the date of termination, or such other date that may be specified by Executive if the termination is pursuant to Section 3(b)).
          (o) "Voting Stock" means at any time, the then-outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of Company.
     2. . This Agreement will be effective and binding immediately upon its execution, but, anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, except as provided in Section 3(c), this Agreement will not be operative unless and until a Change in Control occurs. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control at any time during the Term, without further action, this Agreement will become immediately operative.
Operation of Agreement
     3. .
Termination Following a Change in Control
          (a) In the event of the occurrence of a Change in Control, Executive's employment may be terminated by Company or a Subsidiary during the Severance Period (or pursuant to Section 3(c))
 
and Executive will be entitled to the benefits provided by Section 4 unless such termination is the result of the occurrence of one or more of the following events:
          (i) Executive's death;
          (ii) If Executive becomes permanently disabled within the meaning of, and begins actually to receive disability benefits pursuant to, the long-term disability plan in effect for, or applicable to, Executive immediately prior to the Change in Control; or
          (iii) Cause.
If, during the Severance Period, Executive's employment is terminated by Company or any Subsidiary other than pursuant to Section 3(a)(i), 3(a)(ii) or 3(a)(iii), Executive will be entitled to the benefits provided by Section 4.
          (b) In the event of the occurrence of a Change in Control, Executive may terminate employment with Company and any Subsidiary during the Severance Period for Good Reason with the right to severance compensation as provided in Section 4 regardless of whether any other reason, other than Cause, for such termination exists or has occurred, including without limitation other employment.
          (c) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if a Change in Control occurs and not more than 90 days prior to the date on which the Change in Control occurs, Executive's employment with Company is terminated by Company, such termination of employment will be deemed to be a termination of employment immediately after a Change in Control for purposes of determining whether Executive is entitled to benefits under this Agreement if Executive has reasonably demonstrated that such termination of employment (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control, or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a Change in Control.
          (d) A termination of employment pursuant to Section 3(a), 3(b) or 3(c) will not affect any rights that Executive may have pursuant to any agreement, policy, plan, program or arrangement of Company or Subsidiary providing Employee Benefits, which rights will be governed by the terms thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any severance benefits received by Executive pursuant to Section 4 of this Agreement shall be in lieu of any severance benefits to which Executive would otherwise be entitled under any severance plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement of Company or its affiliates (other than a retirement plan or other deferred compensation arrangement, equity award, welfare benefit plan or any similar plan or agreement which may contain provisions that become operative on, or that may incidentally refer to accelerated vesting or accelerated payment upon, a termination of Executive's employment).
     4. .
Severance Compensation
          (a) If, following the occurrence of a Change in Control, Company or Subsidiary terminates Executive's employment during the Severance Period other than pursuant to Section 3(a)(i), 3(a)(ii) or 3(a)(iii), or if Executive terminates Executive's employment pursuant to Section 3(b), Company will be obligated to make the following payments and provide the following benefits to Executive.
          (i) Within ten business days after the occurrence of an event described in Section 4(a) above (or in the case of an event described in Section 3(c), within 10 business days after the Change in Control), Company shall pay, in a lump sum, an amount equal to two and one-half (2-/) times the sum of (A) Base Pay (at the highest rate in effect for any period within
1
2
 
three years prior to the Termination Date), plus (B) an amount equal to the greater of: (x) the average of the Incentive Pay earned or received by Executive during the three year period immediately preceding the Termination Date, or (y) the Executive's target Incentive Pay for the year in which the Termination Date occurs (assuming the Executive achieves 100% of any stated goals); , , that if payment to Executive would constitute a "deferral of compensation" under Section 409A of the Code, Executive (or Executive's beneficiary) will receive payment of the amounts described in this Section 4(a)(i) upon the earlier of (i) six (6) months following Executive's "separation from service" with Company (as such phrase is defined in Section 409A of the Code) or (ii) within 90 days after Executive's death.
provided
however
          (ii) For a period of eighteen (18) months following the Termination Date (the "Continuation Period"), Company shall arrange to provide Executive, at no cost to Executive, with medical and dental benefits substantially similar to those that Executive was receiving or entitled to receive immediately prior to the Termination Date (or, if greater, immediately prior to the reduction, termination, or denial described in Section 1(i)(ii)). The Continuation Period shall be considered to be the period during which Executive shall be eligible for continuation coverage under Section 4980B of the Code, and Company shall reimburse Executive for the amount of the premiums for such continuation coverage; , that without otherwise limiting the purposes or effect of Section 6, the benefits otherwise receivable by Executive pursuant to this Section 4(a)(ii) will be reduced to the extent comparable welfare benefits are actually received by Executive from another employer during the Continuation Period following Executive's Termination Date, and any such benefits actually received by Executive shall be reported by Executive to Company. If any benefit described in this Section 4(a)(ii) is subject to tax, Company will pay to Executive an additional amount such that after payment by Executive or Executive's dependents or beneficiaries, as the case may be, of all taxes so imposed, the recipient retains an amount equal to such taxes.
provided
however
          (iii) Executive shall be entitled to outplacement services by a firm selected by Executive, at the expense of Company in an amount not to exceed ten percent (10%) of Base Pay; , , that all such outplacement services must be completed, and all payments by Company must be made, by December 31 of the second calendar year following the calendar year in which the Termination Date occurs.
provided
however
          (b) Without limiting the rights of Executive at law or in equity, if Company fails to make any payment or provide any benefit required to be made or provided hereunder on a timely basis, Company will pay interest on the amount or value thereof at an annualized rate of interest equal to the "prime rate" as set forth from time to time during the relevant period in "Money Rates" column. Such interest will be payable at the time the related payment or benefit is paid to Executive. Any change in such prime rate will be effective on and as of the date of such change.
The Wall Street Journal
          (c) Unless otherwise expressly provided by the applicable plan, program or agreement, after the occurrence of a Change in Control, Company will pay in cash to Executive a lump sum amount equal to the sum of (i) any unpaid Incentive Pay that would have been earned, accrued, allocated or awarded to Executive for any performance period ending prior to the Change in Control (regardless of whether (x) payment of such compensation is contingent on the continuing performance of services by Executive or (y) the bonus, incentive, profit-sharing, performance, discretionary pay or similar agreement, policy, plan, program or arrangement pursuant to which such Incentive Pay would otherwise be payable permits pro-ration), plus (ii) the value of any annual bonus or long-term Incentive Pay (including, without limitation, incentive-based annual cash bonuses and performance units, but not including any equity-based compensation or compensation provided under a qualified plan) payable pursuant to any performance period that is outstanding on the date of the Change in Control. Such payment will be made at the earlier of (x) the date prescribed for payment pursuant to the applicable plan,
 
program or agreement, and (y) within five business days after the Change in Control. In the case of clauses (i) and (ii), any applicable vesting requirements will be disregarded. In the case of clause (ii), the amount will be calculated at the greater of (1) the plan target or payout rate and (2) the amount determined based on Company's actual results relative to the applicable performance criteria as if the performance period had ended on the date of the Change in Control, which amount will be prorated on the basis of the number of days of Executive's participation during the applicable performance period to which the incentive pay related divided by the aggregate number of days in such performance period, taking into account service rendered through the payment date.
     5. . In the event that the payments made to Executive under Section 4 of the Agreement constitute "parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code, and such parachute payments would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Excise Tax"), then the payments shall be made to the Executive based on an after-tax basis (taking into account the applicable federal, state, local taxes and the Excise Tax), of either:
Parachute Payments
          (a) payments delivered in full (including Excise Tax), or
          (b) payments delivered after reducing the payment $1 below the safe harbor limit (as set forth in Section 280G(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code) which would result in no portion of the payment being subject to the Excise Tax.
The determination of whether any reduction in or repayment of such payments or benefits to be provided under this Agreement is required will be made at the expense of the Company by a nationally recognized accounting firm or benefits consulting firm, if requested by Executive or Company. In the event that any payment or benefit intended to be provided under this Agreement or otherwise is required to be reduced or repaid pursuant to this Section 5, the reduction shall be made by reducing the amounts to be paid or provided under the following section of this Agreement in the following order: (i) Section 4(a)(i), (ii) Section 4(c), (iii) Section 4(a)(iii), and (iv) Section 4(a)(ii).
     6. . Company hereby acknowledges that it will be difficult and may be impossible for Executive to find reasonably comparable employment following Termination Date. Accordingly, the payment of the severance compensation by Company to Executive in accordance with the terms of this Agreement is hereby acknowledged by Company to be reasonable, and Executive will not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor will any profits, income, earnings or other benefits from any source whatsoever create any mitigation, offset, reduction or any other obligation on the part of Executive hereunder or otherwise.
No Mitigation Obligation
     7. .
Legal Fees and Expenses
          (a) It is the intent of Company that Executive not be required to incur legal fees and the related expenses associated with the interpretation, enforcement or defense of Executive's rights in connection with any dispute arising under this Agreement because the cost and expense thereof would substantially detract from the benefits intended to be extended to Executive hereunder. Accordingly, if it should appear to Executive that Company has failed to comply with any of its obligations under this Agreement or in the event that Company or any other person takes or threatens to take any action to declare this Agreement void or unenforceable, or institutes any proceeding designed to deny, or to recover from, Executive the benefits provided or intended to be provided to Executive hereunder, Company irrevocably authorizes Executive from time to time to retain counsel of Executive's choice, at the expense of Company as hereafter provided, to advise and represent Executive in connection with any such dispute
 
or proceeding. Notwithstanding any existing or prior attorney-client relationship between Company and such counsel, Company irrevocably consents to Executive's entering into an attorney-client relationship with such counsel, and in that connection Company and Executive agree that a confidential relationship will exist between Executive and such counsel. Without respect to whether Executive prevails, in whole or in part, in connection with any of the foregoing, Company will pay and be solely financially responsible for any and all attorneys' and related fees and expenses incurred by Executive at any time from the Effective Date through Executive's remaining lifetime, (or, if longer, through the 20th anniversary of the Effective Date) in connection with any of the foregoing. Such payments will be made within five business days after delivery of Executive's written requests for payment, accompanied by such evidence of fees and expenses incurred as Company may reasonably require; provided that Executive shall have submitted all required documentation at least 14 days before the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such fees and expenses were incurred.
          (b) In order to secure the benefits to be received by Executive pursuant to this Agreement and similar arrangements with other executives, Company shall establish one or more trust funds (the "Trust"). Company will deposit in such Trust, within five (5) business days after the occurrence of an event that in the reasonable opinion of the Board will likely result in a Change in Control, an amount equal to approximately the maximum aggregate benefits that could be payable to Executive under the terms of this Agreement; provided, however, that (i) the Trust shall not be funded if the funding thereof would result in taxable income to Executive by reason of Section 409A(b) of the Code; and (ii) in no event shall any Trust assets at any time be located or transferred outside of the United States, within the meaning of Section 409A(b) of the Code. Any funds which may be placed into the Trust under this Agreement shall continue for all purposes to be a part of the general funds of Company subject to the claims of Company's creditors in the event of Company's insolvency and no person shall by virtue of this Agreement have any interest in such funds. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from Company under this Agreement, such rights shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of Company. Executive shall be entitled to receive distributions from the funds held in the Trust pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the agreement establishing the Trust between Company and the trustee. If prior to the date of a Change in Control, the Board has actual knowledge that all third parties have abandoned or terminated their efforts to effect a Change in Control and a Change in Control at that time is unlikely and the Board so advises Executive, the trust funds and interest earned thereon, if any, shall be returned to Company by the trustee. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 6(b), failure by Company to place such funds in Trust in no way relieves Company from its financial obligations and responsibilities to Executive under the terms of this Agreement.
          (c) All benefits to be paid pursuant to this Agreement, including any amounts paid pursuant to Section 6(a) which were not paid through the Trust established pursuant to Section 6(b), shall be paid from the general assets of the Company.
     8. . Nothing expressed or implied in this Agreement will create any right or duty on the part of Company or Executive to have Executive remain in the employment of Company or any Subsidiary prior to or following any Change in Control.
Employment Rights
     9. . Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, city or other taxes as Company is required to withhold pursuant to any applicable law, regulation or ruling.
Withholding of Taxes
     10. .
Successors and Binding Agreement
          (a) Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business or assets of
 
Company, by agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Executive, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. This Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Company and any successor to Company, including without limitation any persons acquiring directly or indirectly all or substantially all of the business or assets of Company whether by purchase, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise (and such successor will thereafter be deemed the "Company" for the purposes of this Agreement), but will not otherwise be assignable, transferable or delegable by Company.
          (b) This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees and legatees.
          (c) This Agreement is personal in nature and neither of the parties hereto will, without the consent of the other, assign, transfer or delegate this Agreement or any rights or obligations hereunder except as expressly provided in Sections 10(a) and 10(b). Without limiting the generality or effect of the foregoing, Executive's right to receive payments hereunder will not be assignable, transferable or delegable, whether by pledge, creation of a security interest, or otherwise, other than by a transfer by Executive's will or by the laws of descent and distribution and, in the event of any attempted assignment or transfer contrary to this Section 10(c), Company will have no liability to pay any amount so attempted to be assigned, transferred or delegated.
     11. . For all purposes of this Agreement, all communications, including without limitation notices, consents, requests or approvals, required or permitted to be given hereunder will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given when hand delivered or dispatched by electronic facsimile transmission (with receipt thereof orally confirmed), or five business days after having been mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or three business days after having been sent by a nationally recognized overnight courier service such as FedEx or UPS, addressed to Company (to the attention of the Secretary of Company) at its principal executive office and to Executive at Executive's principal residence, or to such other address as any party may have furnished to the other in writing and in accordance herewith, except that notices of changes of address will be effective only upon receipt.
Notices
     12. . The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Ohio and federal law, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws of such State, except as expressly provided herein.
Governing Law
     13. . If any provision of this Agreement or the application of any provision hereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid or otherwise unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provision to any other person or circumstance will not be affected, and the provision so held to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable will be reformed to the extent (and only to the extent) necessary to make it enforceable or valid.
Validity
     14. . No provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in writing signed by Executive and Company. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto or compliance with any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party will be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, expressed or implied with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party that are not set forth expressly in this Agreement. The headings used in this Agreement are intended for convenience or reference only and will not in any manner amplify, limit, modify or otherwise be used in the construction or interpretation of any provision of this
Miscellaneous
 
Agreement. References to Sections are to Sections of this Agreement. Any reference in this Agreement to a provision of a statute, rule or regulation will also include any successor provision thereto.
     15. . This Agreement shall expressly supersede and render null, void and invalid any prior severance pay agreement or agreements of a similar nature previously entered into by and between Company and Executive with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.
Effect on Prior Agreements
     16. . Any dispute between the parties under this Agreement will be resolved (except as provided below) through informal arbitration by an arbitrator selected under the rules of the American Arbitration Association for arbitration of employment disputes (located in the city in which Company's principal executive offices in the United States are based) and the arbitration will be conducted in that location under the rules of said Association. Each party will be entitled to present evidence and argument to the arbitrator. The arbitrator will have the right only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement and may not change any of its provisions, except as expressly provided in Section 13. The arbitrator will permit reasonable pre-hearing discovery of facts, to the extent necessary to establish a claim or a defense to a claim, subject to supervision by the arbitrator. The determination of the arbitrator will be conclusive and binding upon the parties and judgment upon the same may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator will give written notice to the parties stating the arbitrator's determination, and will furnish to each party a signed copy of such determination. The expenses of arbitration will be borne equally by Company and Executive or as the arbitrator equitably determines consistent with the application of state or federal law; provided, however, that Executive's share of such expenses will not exceed the maximum permitted by law. Any arbitration or action pursuant to this Section 16 will be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Ohio and, where applicable, federal law, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws of such State.
Dispute Resolution
     17. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the parties' respective rights and obligations under Sections 3(d), 4, 5, 7, 9, 10(b), 16, 18 and 20 will survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement or the termination of Executive's employment following a Change in Control for any reason whatsoever.
Survival
     18. . Executive will be entitled to select (and change, to the extent permitted under any applicable law) a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any compensation or benefit payable hereunder following Executive's death, and may change such election, in either case by giving Company written notice thereof in accordance with Section 11. In the event of Executive's death or a judicial determination of Executive's incompetence, reference in this Agreement to "Executive" will be deemed, where appropriate, to Executive's beneficiary, estate or other legal representative.
Beneficiaries
     19. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original but all of which together will constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
     20. .
Section 409A of the Code
          (a) The intent of the parties is that payments and benefits under this Agreement comply with Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A") or are exempt therefrom and, accordingly, to the maximum extent permitted, this Agreement shall be interpreted to be in compliance therewith. If Executive notifies Company (with specificity as to the reason therefore) that Executive believes that any provision of this Agreement (or of any award of compensation, including equity compensation or benefits) would cause Executive to incur any additional tax or interest under Section 409A and Company concurs with such belief or Company (without any obligation whatsoever to do so) independently makes such determination, Company shall, after consulting with Executive, reform such provision in a manner
 
that is economically neutral to Company to attempt to comply with Section 409A through good faith modifications to the minimum extent reasonably appropriate to conform with Section 409A.
          (b) A termination of employment shall not be deemed to have occurred for purposes of any provision of this Agreement providing for the payment of any amounts or benefits subject to Section 409A upon or following a termination of employment unless such termination is also a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A and Executive is no longer providing services (at a level that would preclude the occurrence of a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A) to Company or its affiliates as an employee or consultant, and for purposes of any such provision of this Agreement, references to a "termination," "termination of employment" or like terms shall mean "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A.
          (c) With regard to any provision herein that provides for reimbursement of costs and expenses or in-kind benefits, except as otherwise permitted by Section 409A: (i) the right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits shall not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit, (ii) the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement, or in-kind benefits, provided during any taxable year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement, or in-kind benefits to be provided, in any other taxable year, and (iii) such payments shall be made on or before the last day of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the expense occurred, or such earlier date as required hereunder.
          (d) With regard to any provision herein that provides for a gross-up payment or other reimbursement for Executive's taxes (or audit or litigation expenses attributable to the tax gross-up or reimbursement), the applicable taxes or related expenses shall be reimbursed no later than the earlier of (i) the date specified for payment under the Arrangement, or (ii) the end of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the applicable taxes are remitted or, in the case of reimbursement of expenses incurred due to a tax audit or litigation to which there is no remittance of taxes, the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the audit is completed or there is a final and nonappealable settlement or other resolution of the litigation.
          (e) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, if Executive is a "specified employee," as determined under Company's policy for identifying specified employees on the Termination Date, then to the extent required in order to comply with Section 409A, all payments, benefits, tax gross-ups or other reimbursements paid or provided under this Agreement that constitute a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A, that are provided as a result of a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A and that would otherwise be paid or provided during the first six months following such Termination Date shall be accumulated through and paid or provided (together with interest at the applicable federal rate under Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code in effect on the Termination Date), within 30 days after the first business day that is more than six months after the date of his separation from service (or, if Executive dies during such six-month period, within 90 days after Executive's death).
          (f) Whenever a payment under this Agreement specifies a payment period with reference to a number of days (, "payment shall be made within 30 days after the Termination Date"), the actual date of payment within the specified period shall be within the sole discretion of Company. For purposes of Section 409A, Executive's right to receive any "installment" payments pursuant to this Agreement shall be treated as a right to receive a series of separate and distinct payments.
e.g.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first above written.


