FILE:SHW/SHW-8K-20121113074340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. .
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On November 9, 2012, The Sherwin-Williams Company ("Sherwin-Williams") and Sherwin-Williams (Caribbean) N.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of Sherwin-Williams, entered into a definitive Stock Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") to purchase all of the issued and outstanding shares of Consorcio Comex, S.A. de C.V. and Conaxe, S. A. de C. V. (collectively, "Comex") from affiliates of the Achar family for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.34 billion in cash, including assumed debt.
Founded in 1952, Comex is a leader in the paint and coatings market in Mexico with headquarters in Mexico City.
The closing of the transaction is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2013 and is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including the consent, waiver or authorization of the Federal Antitrust Commission of Mexico, the Competition Bureau of Canada, and the National Commission of Foreign Investments of Mexico, and the expiration or termination of any waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976.
Item 8.01. .
Other Events
On November 12, 2012, Sherwin-Williams issued a press release announcing the signing of the Purchase Agreement. A copy of this press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This report contains, or incorporates by reference, "forward-looking statements," as defined under U.S. federal securities laws, concerning the proposed acquisition of Comex. These forward-looking statements are based upon management's current expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events and conditions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Sherwin-Williams, that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements and from Sherwin-Williams' historical results and experience. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include legal, regulatory and other matters that may affect the timing or ability of Sherwin-Williams to complete the acquisition of Comex. Other risks, uncertainties and factors may affect the businesses of Sherwin-Williams and Comex, and include such things as: general business conditions, strengths of retail and manufacturing economies and the growth in the coatings industry; changes in relationships with customers and suppliers; changes in raw material availability and pricing; unusual weather conditions; and other risks, uncertainties and factors described from time to time in Sherwin-Williams' reports filed with the SEC. Since it is not possible to predict or identify all of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results, the above list should not be considered a complete list. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and Sherwin-Williams undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
CLEVELAND, OHIO  November 12, 2012  The Sherwin-Williams Company (NYSE: SHW) announced it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire Consorcio Comex, S.A. de C.V., a leader in the paint and coatings market in Mexico with headquarters in Mexico City. Sherwin-Williams will pay approximately $2.34 billion, including assumed debt, in an all-cash transaction. Completion of the acquisition is subject to certain conditions and customary regulatory approvals.
Founded in 1952, Comex is a privately held business with operations in Latin America, the U.S. and Canada. In 2011, Comex had total annual sales of U.S.$1.4 billion. The Company manufactures and sells architectural and industrial coatings in Mexico through 3,300 points of sale operated by 750 concessionaires. In the U.S., Comex sells paint and coatings products under a variety of brand names through 240 company-operated paint stores. In Canada, the company markets multiple brands of paint and coatings through 78 company-operated paint stores and approximately 1,500 independent paint dealers.
Comex, like Sherwin-Williams, places heavy emphasis on supplying high-quality architectural paints and coatings. The company's product assortment also includes various industrial, protective and specialty coatings. Comex operates eight manufacturing sites in Mexico, five in the U.S. and three in Canada and has more than 7,200 employees.
"Sherwin-Williams and Comex Group are an ideal fit in every respectgeographically, strategically and culturally," said Christopher M. Connor, Chairman and CEO of Sherwin-Williams. "This transaction will significantly increase our presence in markets where our store count is low, it builds upon our strategy to grow our architectural paint business in the Americas and it brings a high-quality, dedicated team of employees to Sherwin-Williams. We are proud to welcome such a well-respected company and their employees into the Sherwin-Williams family."
Marcos Achar Levy, CEO of Comex, commented, "We are very pleased and excited to join the Sherwin-Williams team and look forward to making a major contribution to the Company's ongoing success across the Americas. We have respected Sherwin-Williams for years, and are delighted to now be a partner. Comex and its committed employees know Sherwin-Williams well, and I am confident that joining the Sherwin-Williams family will provide an outstanding future for our employees and customers."
Sherwin-Williams will conduct a conference call with investors to discuss the details of the proposed acquisition at 11:00 a.m. ET on Monday, November 12, 2012. Analysts and institutional investors may participate in the Q&A session by dialing (877) 407-9205 in the U.S. and (201) 689-8054 outside the U.S. The conference call along with accompanying slide presentation will also be webcast simultaneously by Vcall. To access the webcast link go to the
Sherwin-Williams website, , click on About Us, choose Investor Relations, then select Press Releases and click on the webcast icon following the reference to the November 12th release. An archived replay of the live webcast will be available at beginning approximately two hours after the call ends and will be available until Friday, November 16, 2012 at 5:00 p.m. ET.
www.sherwin.com
www.sherwin.com
The Sherwin-Williams Company
Founded in 1866, The Sherwin-Williams Company is a global leader in the manufacture, development, distribution, and sale of coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial, and retail customers.
The company manufactures products under well-known brands such as Sherwin-Williams, Dutch Boy, Krylon, Minwax, Thompson's Water Seal, Ronseal, Becker Acroma, Sayerlack, Euronavy, Altax and many more.
With global headquarters in Cleveland, Ohio, Sherwin-Williams branded products are sold exclusively through more than 4,000 company-operated stores and facilities, while the company's other brands are sold through leading mass merchandisers, home centers, independent paint dealers, hardware stores, automotive retailers, and industrial distributors. For more information, visit .
www.sherwin.com
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements," as defined under U.S. federal securities laws, concerning the proposed acquisition of Comex. These forward-looking statements are based upon management's current expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events and conditions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Sherwin-Williams, that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements and from Sherwin-Williams' historical results and experience. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include legal, regulatory and other matters that may affect the timing or ability of Sherwin-Williams to complete the acquisition of Comex. Other risks, uncertainties and factors may affect the businesses of Sherwin-Williams and Comex, and include such things as: general business conditions, strengths of retail and manufacturing economies and the growth in the coatings industry; changes in relationships with customers and suppliers; changes in raw material availability and pricing; unusual weather conditions; and other risks, uncertainties and factors described from time to time in Sherwin-Williams' reports filed with the SEC. Since it is not possible to predict or identify all of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results, the above list should not be considered a complete list. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and Sherwin-Williams undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Investor Contact:
Bob Wells
Senior Vice President  Corporate Communications and Public Affairs
Sherwin-Williams
Direct: 216.566.2244
rjwells@sherwin.com
Media Contact:
Mike Conway
Director  Corporate Communications
Sherwin-Williams
Direct: 216.515.4393
Pager: 216.422.3751
mike.conway@sherwin.com
 


