FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20040329165212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
McCormick & Company, Incorporated
 
Item 5. Other Events and Regulations FD Disclosure
 
On March 23, 2004, the Registrant issued a press release and held a conference call with analysts to report on the results of operations for the first quarter of fiscal year 2004, which ended on February 29, 2004.
 
On March 26, 2004, the Registrant furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 8-K with a copy of (i) the press release labeled "McCormick Announces Record First Quarter Results," which includes an unaudited Consolidated Income Statement for the three months ended February 29, 2004, and an unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Registrant as of February 29, 2004, and (ii) the presentation delivered at the conference call labeled "McCormick & Company, Incorporated, Conference Call Announcing First Quarter 2004 Results, March 23, 2004," attached as exhibits.
 
The Registrant has now determined to file portions of the press release referenced above comprising historical financial information, which portions are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  The presentation delivered at the conference call that was previously furnished to the Commission is not being filed.
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1: Portions of Press Release labeled "McCormick Announces Record First Quarter Results," which includes an unaudited Consolidated Income Statement for the three months ended February 29, 2004 and an unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Registrant as of February 29, 2004.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
SPARKS, MD, MAR. 23 - - - McCormick & Company, Incorporated (NYSE:MKC), today reported record sales, net income and earnings per share for the first quarter ended February 29, 2004.
 
Sales for the quarter were $572 million, an increase of 18% versus the first quarter of 2003.  Higher volumes, pricing and product mix in the consumer and industrial businesses led to an increase of 7%.  In addition, favorable foreign exchange rates added 6%, and the 2003 acquisition of Zatarain's added another 5% to sales.
 
Earnings per share from continuing operations for the first quarter increased 17% to 27 compared to 23 in the first quarter of 2003.  During the quarter, the Company increased advertising spending by $5 million related largely to the Zatarain's acquisition and new product launches.  Strong sales growth and higher gross profit margin were the primary drivers of the first quarter increase in net income and earnings per share.
 
Consumer Business
 
 
For the first quarter, sales for McCormick's consumer business rose 27% when compared to 2003.  Zatarain's added 10% to sales, higher volume, price and product mix added 9% and favorable foreign exchange another 8%.  Consumer sales in the Americas rose 33% with 16% from the Zatarain's acquisition and 2% from foreign exchange.  Higher volume in both the U.S. and Canada was the primary driver of the remaining 15% of sales increase for the quarter.  Sales in the U.S. benefited from new distribution gained in 2003 with a leading dollar store chain and a major grocery retailer.  In addition to these volume increases, pricing was higher for vanilla products in response to higher vanilla bean costsConsumer sales in Europe increased 17% for the quarter, with 16% due to favorable foreign exchange.  The remaining 1% of increase was due to sales of new products and strength with the Schwartz brand in the U.K.  Volumes in France were even with prior year due to a weaker economy.  In the Asia/Pacific region, favorable foreign exchange led to a 19% increase in consumer sales. During the quarter, increased sales in Australia offset a decrease from slotting fees for new products in China that were recorded as a reduction to sales.  Operating income from continuing operations for the consumer business increased 23% to $49 million for the first quarter of 2004.  This increase was driven by strong sales performance, offset in part by a $5 million increase in advertising related to Zatarain's and new product launches.
. 
Industrial Business
 
 
McCormick's industrial business had improved results for the first quarter of 2004. Sales increased 10% versus last year, with higher volumes, price and product mix contributing 6% and favorable foreign exchange another 4%.  In the Americas, industrial sales rose 6% with 1% from foreign exchange.  As in 2003, sales to restaurant customers have remained strong with new products leading to higher volumes.  Sales to food processors improved during the quarter, while sales to food service customers continued to be even with prior year results.  Industrial sales in Europe benefited from new products, increasing 26% for the quarter, with foreign exchange contributing 15%.  In the Asia/Pacific region, industrial sales rose 14%, with an 11% increase from foreign exchange.  In the first quarter of 2004, industrial business operating income increased 12% to $25 million, benefiting from sales of more higher-margin, value-added product lines.
 
[Text Intentionally Deleted]
Forward-Looking Statement
 
Certain information contained in this release, including expected trends in net sales and earnings performance, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements are based on management's current views and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could be materially affected by external factors such as:  actions of competitors, customer relationships, market acceptance of new products, actual amount and timing of special charge items, removal and disposal costs, final negotiations of third-party contracts, the impact of the stock market conditions on its share repurchase program, fluctuations in the cost and availability of supply chain resources, global economic conditions, including interest and currency rate fluctuations, and inflation rates.  The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly, any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
About McCormick
 
McCormick & Company, Incorporated is the global leader in the manufacture, marketing and distribution of spices, seasonings and flavors to the entire food industry  to foodservice and food processing businesses as well as to retail outlets.
 
 
For information contact:
Corporate Communications:  Mac Barrett (410-771-7310 or mac_barrett@mccormick.com)
Investor Relations:  Joyce Brooks (410-771-7244 or joyce_brooks@mccormick.com) 3/2004
 
 
 
 


