FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20051206170248.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Item 8.01
            
Other Events.
 
On December 1, 2005, McCormick & Company, Incorporated (the "Company") entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named in Schedule A thereto (the "Underwriters"), in connection with the issuance and sale of $200 million aggregate principal amount of 5.20% Notes due 2015 (the "Notes").  The Notes mature on December 15, 2015, with interest payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2006.  The Company may redeem the Notes at any time.  The closing of the offering occurred on December 6, 2005.  A copy of the Underwriting Agreement is filed as an exhibit to this report.
 
Item 9.01
            
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K are listed on the exhibit index, which appears elsewhere herein and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: December 6, 2005

Exhibit 1.1
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
December 1, 2005
 
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC
 
As Representatives of the several Underwriters named in the attached Schedule A
 
c/o Banc of America Securities LLC 40 West 57 Street New York, New York 10019
th
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
McCormick & Company, Incorporated, a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A (the Underwriters"), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A hereto of $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.20% Notes due 2015 (the "Notes").  Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "Representatives") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
 
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of December 5, 2000 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and SunTrust Bank, as trustee (the "Trustee").  Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to Section 2.1 of the Indenture.  Notes issued in book-entry form will be issued in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary"), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated as of the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary.
 
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-122366) for the registration of securities, including the Notes, under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 of the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1933 Act (the "1933 Act Regulations").  Such registration statement has been declared effective by the Commission and the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "1939 Act").  The Company has not filed any post-effective amendments to the Registration Statement as of the date of this Agreement.  Such registration statement, including the required information deemed to be a part thereof pursuant to Rule 430B(f) of the 1933 Act Regulations (the "Rule 430B Information"), is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; and the final prospectus and
 
 
the final prospectus supplement relating to the offering of the Notes, in the forms first furnished to the Underwriters by the Company for use in connection with the offering of the Notes, are collectively referred to herein as the "Prospectus"; , , that all references to the "Registration Statement" and the "Prospectus" shall also be deemed to include all documents incorporated therein by reference pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), prior to the Initial Sale Time; that if the Company files a registration statement with the Commission pursuant to Rule 462(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations (the "Rule 462(b) Registration Statement"), then all references to "Registration Statement" shall also be deemed to include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement.  A "preliminary prospectus" shall be deemed to refer to (i) any prospectus used before the Registration Statement became effective and (ii) any prospectus that omitted, as applicable, the Rule 430B Information or other information to be included upon pricing in a form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations and was used after such effectiveness and prior to the initial delivery of the Prospectus to the Underwriters by the Company.  The term "Pricing Prospectus" shall mean the prospectus, as amended or supplemented, relating to the Notes that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to the Initial Sale Time (as defined herein), including any document incorporated by reference therein at the Initial Sale Time, and any preliminary or other prospectus supplement deemed to be a part thereof at the Initial Sale Time.  For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Pricing Prospectus or the preliminary prospectus, or to any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include any copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("EDGAR").
provided
however
provided
further
 
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "disclosed," "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Pricing Prospectus or any preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Pricing Prospectus or such preliminary prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time, and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the 1934 Act which is incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or such preliminary prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
 
.
SECTION 1.
                               
Representations and Warranties
 
.  The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (as defined below) (in each case, a "Representation Date"), as follows:
(a)
                                 
Representations and Warranties by the Company
 
.   The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act.  The Registration Statement (including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement) has become effective under the 1933 Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement (or such Rule 462(b) Registration Statement) has been issued under the 1933 Act and no
(1)
                                 
Compliance with Registration Requirements
proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.  In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the 1939 Act.
 
The Registration Statement (including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement), at the time it became effective and at the Representation Date, complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the 1939 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1939 Act (the "1939 Act Regulations") and did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.  The Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, as of its date and at the Closing Date, did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto, made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 6(b) hereof; and the foregoing representations and warranties are given on the basis that any statement contained in a document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus prior to the Initial Sale Time shall be deemed not to be contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus if such statement has been modified or superseded by any statement in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus.
 
The prospectus filed as part of the Registration Statement as originally filed and the preliminary prospectus supplement filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the 1933 Act, complied when so filed in all material respects with the 1933 Act Regulations and the preliminary prospectus supplement and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
 
.   The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus, (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "1934 Act Regulations") and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not and will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
(2)
                                 
Incorporated Documents
statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
.  The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Pricing Prospectus and (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act (the "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus") attached as Schedule B hereto.  As of 1:15 p.m. (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement (the "Initial Sale Time"), the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 6 hereof.
(3)
                                 
Disclosure Package
 
.  As of the date of execution and delivery of this Agreement (with such date being used as the determination date), the Company was and is a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act.
(4)
                                 
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
 
.  As of the date of the execution and delivery of this Agreement (with such date being used as the determination date), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act).
(5)
                                 
Company Not Ineligible Issuer
 
.  The Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Notes or until any earlier date of which the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in Section 3(f), did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, including any document incorporated by reference therein that has not been superseded or modified.
(6)
                                 
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
.  The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than a preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus and the Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in the form attached as Schedule B hereto.
(7)
                                 
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company
 
.   Ernst & Young LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to certain of the financial statements (which term as used in this Agreement includes the related notes thereto) and any supporting schedules thereto included in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus, are independent public accountants as required by the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
(8)
                                 
Independent Accountants
.   The consolidated financial statements of the Company included in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus, together with the related schedules and notes, present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, at the dates indicated, and the statement of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, for the periods specified.  Such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved.  The supporting schedules, if any, included in the Registration Statement present fairly in accordance with GAAP the information required to be stated therein.  The selected financial data and the summary financial information included in each of the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus.  In addition, any pro forma financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and the related notes thereto included in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein, have been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines with respect to pro forma financial statements, and have been properly compiled on the bases described therein, and the assumptions used in the preparation thereof are reasonable and the adjustments used therein are appropriate to give effect to the transactions and circumstances referred to therein.
(9)
                                 
Financial Statements
 
.   Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, except as otherwise stated therein, (A) there has been no material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business (a "Material Adverse Effect"), (B) there have been no transactions entered into by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, other than those arising in the ordinary course of business, which are material with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, and (C) except for regular dividends on the Company's common stock or preferred stock, in amounts per share that are consistent with past practice or the applicable charter document or supplement thereto, respectively, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock.
(10)
                           
No Material Adverse Change in Business
 
.   The Company has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Maryland and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under, or as contemplated under, this Agreement.  The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each other jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(11)
                           
Good Standing of the Company
.   Each subsidiary of the Company that is a "significant subsidiary" as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X promulgated under the 1933 Act (each, a "Significant Subsidiary") has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.  Except as otherwise stated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each "Significant Subsidiary" has been duly authorized and is validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity.  None of the outstanding shares of capital stock of any "Significant Subsidiary" was issued in violation of preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of such "Significant Subsidiary".
(12)
                           
Good Standing of Subsidiaries
 
.   The authorized, issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company conforms in all material respects to the descriptions thereof incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. Such shares of capital stock have been duly authorized and validly issued by the Company and are fully paid and non-assessable, and none of such shares of capital stock was issued in violation of preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of the Company.
(13)
                           
Capitalization
 
.   This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
(14)
                           
Authorization of this Agreement
 
.   The Notes have been duly authorized by the Company for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when issued and authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.  Such Notes are in the form contemplated by, and each registered holder thereof will be entitled to the benefits of, the Indenture.
(15)
                           
Authorization of the Notes
 
.   The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.  The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered and constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to
(16)
                           
Authorization of the Indenture
fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
.   The Notes will conform in all material respects to the statements relating thereto contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and will be in substantially the form filed or incorporated by reference, as the case may be, as an exhibit to the Registration Statement.
(17)
                           
Description of the Notes
 
.   The Indenture will conform in all material respects to the statements relating thereto contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and will be in substantially the form filed or incorporated by reference, as the case may be, as an exhibit to the Registration Statement.
(18)
                           
Description of the Indenture
 
.   Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is in violation of its charter or by-laws or is in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound, or to which any of the assets, properties or operations of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is subject (collectively, "Agreements and Instruments"), except for such defaults that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.  The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Indenture and any other agreement or instrument entered into or issued or to be entered into or issued by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (including the issuance and sale of the Notes and the use of the proceeds from the sale of the Notes as described under the caption "Use of Proceeds") and compliance by the Company with its obligations hereunder and thereunder have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or passage of time or both, conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default or Repayment Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any assets, properties or operations of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries pursuant to, any Agreements and Instruments, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their assets, properties or operations.  As used herein, a "Repayment Event" means any event or condition which gives the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
(19)
                           
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
.   No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent, and the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or any of its subsidiaries' principal suppliers, manufacturers, customers or contractors, which, in either case, may reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(20)
                           
Absence of Labor Dispute
 
   Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained, since the date of the latest audited financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus as amended or supplemented, any loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, which, in either case, may reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(21)
                           
Absence of Business Interruptions.
 
.   There is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending, or to the knowledge of the Company threatened, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries which is required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (other than as stated therein), or which might reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or which might reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated under the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus, this Agreement or the Indenture or the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and thereunder.  The aggregate of all pending legal or governmental proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any of their respective assets, properties or operations is the subject which are not described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, including ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(22)
                           
Absence of Proceedings
 
.   There are no franchises, contracts or documents which are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein or to be filed as exhibits thereto which have not been so described and filed as required.
(23)
                           
Accuracy of Exhibits
 
.   No filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency, domestic or foreign, is necessary or required for the due authorization, execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement or for the performance by the Company of the transactions contemplated under the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus, this Agreement, or the Indenture, except such as have been already made, obtained or rendered, as applicable.
(24)
                           
Absence of Further Requirements
 
.   The Company and its subsidiaries own or possess, or can acquire on reasonable terms, adequate patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented
(25)
                           
Possession of Intellectual Property
and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks, trade names or other intellectual property (collectively, "Intellectual Property") necessary to carry on the business now operated by them, except for any failure to own, possess or acquire, singly or in the aggregate, that could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice or is otherwise aware of any infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any Intellectual Property or of any facts or circumstances which would render any Intellectual Property invalid or inadequate to protect the interest of the Company or any of its subsidiaries therein, except for any infringement or conflict (if the subject of any unfavorable decision, ruling or finding) or invalidity or inadequacy, singly or in the aggregate, that could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
.   The Company and its subsidiaries possess such permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations (collectively, "Governmental Licenses") issued by the appropriate federal, state, local or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except where the non-possession of such Governmental Licenses could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  The Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Governmental Licenses, except where the failure so to comply could not reasonably be expected to, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.  All of the Governmental Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except where the invalidity of such Governmental Licenses or the failure of such Governmental Licenses to be in full force and effect could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Governmental Licenses which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(26)
                           
Possession of Licenses and Permits
 
.  The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries maintain (x) systems of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; and (iii) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences and (y) disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 15d-15 under the 1934 Act.
(27)
                           
Maintenance of Internal Controls and Procedures
 
.  The Company is, to its knowledge, in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that are effective and the rules and regulations of the Commission that have been adopted and are effective thereunder.
(28)
                           
Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
 
.   The Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all real property owned by the Company and its subsidiaries and good
(29)
                           
Title to Property
title to all other properties owned by them, in each case, free and clear of all mortgages, pledges, liens, security interests, claims, restrictions or encumbrances of any kind, except (A) as otherwise stated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or (B) those which do not, singly or in the aggregate, materially affect the value of such property and do not interfere with the use made and proposed to be made of such property by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  All of the leases and subleases material to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, and under which the Company or any of its subsidiaries holds properties described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, are in full force and effect, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of any material claim of any sort that has been asserted by anyone adverse to the rights of the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any of the leases or subleases mentioned above, or affecting or questioning the rights of the Company or such subsidiary of the continued possession of the leased or subleased premises under any such lease or sublease, except where the failure of such leases or subleases to be in full force and effect and any such claim, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Except to the extent that any such failures would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries have filed all necessary federal, state and foreign income and franchise tax returns and have paid all taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, except as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings.  The Company has made adequate charges, accruals and reserves in the applicable financial statements referred to in Section 1(a)(9) above in respect of all federal, state and foreign income and franchise taxes for all periods as to which the tax liability of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has not become due or been finally determined.
(30)
                           
Tax Law Compliance
. 
 
.  The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that might be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
(31)
                           
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation
 
.  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any employee or agent of the Company or any subsidiary in their capacities as such, has made any contribution or other payment to any official of, or candidate for, any federal, state or foreign office in violation of any law.
(32)
                           
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments
 
.   The Company is not, and upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "1940 Act").
(33)
                           
Investment Company Act
.   Except as otherwise stated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and except as would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, (A) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent, decree or judgment, relating to pollution or protection of human health, the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to the release or threatened release of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum or petroleum products (collectively, "Hazardous Materials") or to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), (B) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries fails to possess any permit, authorization or approval required under any applicable Environmental Laws or to be in compliance with their requirements, (C) there are no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigation or proceedings relating to any Environmental Law against the Company or any of its subsidiaries and (D) there are no events or circumstances that might reasonably be expected to form the basis of an order for clean-up or remediation, or an action, suit or proceeding by any private party or governmental body or agency, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries relating to Hazardous Materials or any Environmental Laws.
(34)
                           
Environmental Laws
 
  Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries and delivered to any Underwriter or to counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the offering of the Notes shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby on the date of such certificate.
(b)
                                
Officers' Certificates.
 
The Company acknowledges that the Underwriters and, for purposes of the opinions to be delivered pursuant to Section 5 hereof, counsel for the Company and counsel for the Underwriters, will rely upon the accuracy and truthfulness of the foregoing representations and hereby consents to such reliance.
 
.
SECTION 2.
                               
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes
 
.  The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth.  On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 99.279% of the principal amount thereof payable on the Closing Date.
(a)
                                 
The Notes
.  Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Shearman & Sterling LLP (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on December 6, 2005, or such other time and date thereafter as the Representatives and the Company shall agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "Closing Date").
(b)
                                
The Closing Date
 
.  The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after this Agreement has been executed as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
(c)
                                 
Public Offering of the Notes
 
.  Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company, against delivery to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of the Notes to be purchased by them.
(d)
                                
Payment for the Notes
 
It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own account and the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes the Underwriters have agreed to purchase.  The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
 
  The Notes or certificates for the Notes, as applicable, shall be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Representatives may request in writing at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date.  The Notes or certificates for the Notes, as applicable, will be made available for examination and packaging by the Representatives in The City of New York not later than 10:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the business day prior to the Closing Date, or at such other place and time as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company or their respective counsel.
(e)
                                 
Denominations; Registration.
 
.  The Company covenants with the Representatives and with each Underwriter as follows:
SECTION 3.
                               
Covenants of the Company
 
.  During such period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 (the "Prospectus Delivery Period"), prior to amending or supplementing the Registration Statement (including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement filed), the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (including any amendment or supplement through incorporation by reference of any report filed under the 1934 Act), the Company shall furnish to the Representatives for review a copy of each such proposed amendment or supplement, and the Company shall not file any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representatives reasonably object.
(a)
                                 
Representatives' Review of Proposed Amendments and Supplements
  The Company, subject to Section 3(a), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the 1933 Act Regulations and will notify the Representatives promptly, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes.  The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file the Prospectus.  The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof as soon as possible.
(b)
                                
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
 
.  The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters.  The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(c)
                                 
Delivery of Registration Statements
 
.  The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the 1933 Act.  The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request.  Each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(d)
                                
Delivery of Prospectuses
 
.  The Company will comply with the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event or development shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated
(e)
                                 
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(a) and 3(f) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such requirements, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
 
.  The Company agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the 1933 Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives hereto shall be deemed to have been given in respect of the Free Writing Prospectus in the form attached as Schedule B hereto.  Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus".  The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and (ii) it has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the 1933 Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping.
(f)
                                   
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
 
.  The Company will use its reasonable best efforts, in cooperation with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, to qualify or register the Notes for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the Representatives may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect for as long as necessary to complete the distribution of the Notes, up to one year from the date of this Agreement; , , that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject.  In each jurisdiction in which the Notes have been so qualified, the Company will file such statements and reports as may be required by the laws of such jurisdiction to continue such qualification in effect for a period of not less than one year from the date of this Agreement.
(g)
                                
Blue Sky Qualifications
provided
however
 
.  The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
(h)
                                
Earnings Statement
.  The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Notes in the manner specified in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
(i)
                                    
Use of Proceeds
 
.  The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its reasonable best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
(j)
                                    
Depositary
 
.  During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the 1934 Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the 1933 Act in respect of,any debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
(k)
                                 
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities
 
.  During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission reports and all documents required to be filed under the 1934 Act within the time period required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
(l)
                                    
Reporting Requirements
 
The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or grant the Company additional time in which to perform such covenants.
 
.
SECTION 4.
                               
Payment of Expenses
 
  The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including, without limitation, (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any agreement among Underwriters, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Notes, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the Notes, any certificates for the Notes, as applicable, to the Underwriters, including any transfer taxes and any stamp or other duties payable upon the sale, issuance or delivery of the Notes to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors or agents (including transfer agents and registrars), as well as the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel, (v) the qualification of the Notes under state securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation, printing and delivery of the Blue Sky and Legal Investment Survey, and any amendment thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, each
(a)
                                 
Expenses.
preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, (vii) the fees charged by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations for the rating of the Notes, (viii) the fees and expenses incurred with respect to the listing of the Notes, if applicable, (ix) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "NASD") of the terms of the sale of the Notes, and (x) the fees and expenses of any Underwriter acting in the capacity of a "qualified independent underwriter" (as defined in Section 2(l) of Schedule E of the bylaws of the NASD), if applicable.
 
  If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 or Section 9 hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the offering of Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
(b)
                                
Termination of Agreement.
 
.  The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided in this Agreement are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained in Section 1 hereof and as of each Representation Date, to the accuracy of the statements made in certificates of any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
SECTION 5.
                               
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
 
.  The Registration Statement, including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, has become effective under the 1933 Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or shall be pending or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters.  A Prospectus containing information relating to the description of the Notes and the specific method of distribution and similar matters shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b)(1), (2), (3), (4) or (5), as applicable (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A).
(a)
                                 
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
 
.  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Date, of W. Geoffrey Carpenter, Associate General Counsel of the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request.
(b)
                                
Opinion of Associate General Counsel for Company
 
.  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Date, of Hogan & Hartson L.L.P., counsel for the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request.
(c)
                                 
Opinion of Counsel for Company
.  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated as of the Closing Date, of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Underwriters.
(d)
                                
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters
 
.  For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date, or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, there shall not have been any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, and the Representatives shall have received a certificate of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Company, dated as of the Closing Date, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in Section 1(a) are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of the Closing Date, (iii) the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Date, and (iv) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted, are pending or, to the best of such officer's knowledge, are threatened by the Commission.
(e)
                                 
Officers' Certificate
 
.  On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, a letter dated the date hereof, addressed to the Representatives and the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
(f)
                                   
Accountant's Comfort Letter
 
.  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to subsection (f) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
(g)
                                
Bring-down Comfort Letter
 
.  For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date, the Notes shall have the ratings accorded by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations, and the Company shall have delivered to the Representatives a letter, dated as of the Closing Date, from each such rating organization, or other evidence satisfactory to the Representatives, confirming that the Notes have such ratings.  For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date, there shall not have occurred a downgrading in, or withdrawal of, the rating assigned to the Notes or any of the Company's other securities by any such rating organization, and no such rating organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review its rating of the Notes or any of the Company's other securities.
(h)
                                
Ratings
.  If the Registration Statement or an offering of Notes has been filed with the NASD for review, the NASD shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
(i)
                                    
No Objection
 
.  On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes as herein contemplated shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters.
(j)
                                    
Additional Documents
 
.  If any condition specified in this Section 5 shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to the Closing Date and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
(k)
                                 
Termination of this Agreement
 
.
SECTION 6.
                               
Indemnification
 
.  The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
(a)
                                 
Indemnification of Underwriters
 
against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information deemed to be a part thereof, if applicable, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact included in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus, the Pricing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
(1)
                                 
 
against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 6(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company; and
(2)
                                 
against any and all expenses whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (1) or (2) above;
(3)
                                 
 
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information deemed to be a part thereof, if applicable, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus, the Pricing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
provided
however
 
.  Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information deemed to be a part thereof, if applicable, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).  The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information that the Representatives have furnished to the Company expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in the table beneath the first paragraph and as the third, fifth and ninth paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting" in the Pricing Prospectus.  The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 6(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
(b)
                                
Indemnification of the Company, Directors and Officers
 
.  Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement.  In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(a) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Representatives, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(b) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company.  An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of
(c)
                                 
Actions against Parties; Notification
any such action; , , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party.  In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances.  No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 6 or Section 7 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
provided
however
 
.  If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 6(a)(2) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.
(d)
                                
Settlement without Consent if Failure to Reimburse
 
.  If the indemnification provided for in Section 6 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
SECTION 7.
                               
Contribution
 
The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of such Notes (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus, bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of such Notes as set forth on such cover.
The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 7.  The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 7 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus.
 
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
 
For purposes of this Section 7, each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.  The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A.
 
.  All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company or any of its subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto or thereto shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or controlling person, or by or on behalf of the Company, and shall survive delivery of and payment for the Notes.
SECTION 8.
                               
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery
.
SECTION 9.
                               
Termination
 
.  This Agreement may be terminated for any reason at any time by the Company or by the Representatives upon the giving of prior written notice of such termination to the other party hereto.
(a)
                                 
Termination of this Agreement by the Company or the Representatives
 
.  The Representatives may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to the Closing Date, if (i) there has been, since the date hereof or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii)  there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or, in the international financial markets, or any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impracticable to market the Notes or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Notes, or (iii) trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission, the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq National Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by either of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the NASD or any other governmental authority, or (iv) a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities, or (v) there has occurred a material disruption in securities settlement or clearance systems.
(b)
                                
Termination of this Agreement by the Representatives
 
.  If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section 9, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
(c)
                                 
Liabilities
provided
further
 
.  If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail to purchase the Notes that they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date (the "Defaulted Notes"), then the Representatives shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Notes in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the Representatives shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then:
SECTION 10.
                         
Default by One or More of the Several Underwriters
 
if the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Defaulted Notes does not exceed 10% of the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Notes to be purchased on such date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated, severally and not jointly, to purchase the full amount thereof in the proportions that the number of Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate number of Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the
(a)
                                 
non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase the Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date, or
 
if the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Defaulted Notes exceeds 10% of the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Notes to be purchased on such date and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Section 4, Section 6 and Section 7 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.  In any such case either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
(b)
                                
 
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10.  No action taken pursuant to this Section 10 shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of its default.
 
.  The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company, or its affiliates, shareholders or employees; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
SECTION 11.
                         
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.  The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
.  All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication.  Notices shall be directed to the parties hereto as follows:
SECTION 12.
                         
Notices
 
If to the Representatives:
 
Banc of America Securities LLC 40 West 57 Street New York, New York 10019 Facsimile:  (704) 264-2522 Attention:  High Grade Transaction Management
th
 
and
 
Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC One Wachovia Center 301 South College Street, Floor 7
Charlotte, North Carolina 28288 Facsimile:  (704) 383-0661 Attention:  Investment Grade Syndicate
 
and
 
Shearman & Sterling LLP 599 Lexington Avenue New York, New York 10022 Facsimile:  (212) 848-7179 Attention:  Michael J. Schiavone
 
If to the Company:
 
McCormick & Company, Incorporated 18 Loveton Circle Sparks, Maryland 21152 Facsimile:  (410) 527-8228 Attention:  Corporate Secretary
 
and
 
Hogan & Hartson LLP Columbia Square 555 Thirteenth Street, NW
Washington, DC 20004
Facsimile:  (202) 637-5910 Attention:  John B. Beckman
 
.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10
SECTION 13.
                         
Parties
hereof.  Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 6 and 7 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained.  This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof is intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation.  No purchaser of Notes from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
 
.  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.  SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
SECTION 14.
                         
Governing Law and Time
 
.  The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
SECTION 15.
                         
Effect of Headings
 
.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts and, if executed in more than one counterpart, the executed counterparts hereof shall constitute a single instrument.
SECTION 16.
                         
Counterparts
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this Agreement, along with all counterparts, shall become a binding agreement between the Representatives and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
 
 
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
Acting as a Representative of the several Underwriters named in the attached Schedule A
 
 
 
 
WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC
Acting as a Representative of the several Underwriters named in the attached Schedule A
 
 
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
SCHEDULE B
 
:  McCormick & Company, Inc. (MKC)
Issuer
 
:  $200,000,000
Size
 
:  SEC Registered
Type
Registration Statement No. (333-122366)
 
:  Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC
Bookrunners
 
:  Goldman, Sachs & Co. and SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc.
Co-managers
 
:
Allocation
Banc of America Securities LLC:  $70,000,000
Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC:  $70,000,000
Goldman, Sachs & Co.:  $30,000,000
SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc.:  $30,000,000
 
:  December 15, 2015
Maturity
 
:  5.20%
Interest Rate
 
:  June 15 and December 15
Interest Payment Dates
 
:  June 1 and December 1
Record Dates
 
:  June 15, 2006
First Interest Payment Date
 
:  Treasury Rate plus 15 basis points
Make-Whole Call
 
:  99.929% per note; $199,858,000 total
Public Offering Price
:  .65% per note; $1,300,000 total
Underwriting Discount
Proceeds, before expenses, to
99.279% per note; $198,558,000 total
   McCormick: 
 
:  December 06, 2005 (T+3)
Settlement Date
 
:  .40%
Selling Concession
 
:  .250%
Reallowance to other dealers
 
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering.  You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling toll-free 1-800-294-1322 or 1-800-326-5897 or
you may e-mail a request to dg.prospectus  distribution@bofasecurities.com.

Exhibit 4.2
 
CUSIP NO. 579780AD9
 
REGISTERED PRINCIPAL AMOUNT U.S.$200,000,000 No. 1
 
If the registered owner of this Security (as indicated below) is The Depository Trust Company (the "Depository") or a nominee of the Depository, this Security is a Global Security and the following two legends apply:
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
UNLESS AND UNTIL THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN CERTIFICATED FORM, THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE THEREOF OR BY A NOMINEE THEREOF TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY THE DEPOSITORY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR OF THE DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR.
 
IF APPLICABLE, THE "TOTAL AMOUNT OF OID", "YIELD TO MATURITY" AND "INITIAL ACCRUAL PERIOD OID" (COMPUTED UNDER THE APPROXIMATE METHOD) BELOW WILL BE COMPLETED SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSES OF APPLYING THE FEDERAL INCOME TAX ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT ("OID") RULES.
McCORMICK & COMPANY, INCORPORATED, a Maryland corporation (herein referred to as the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of U.S.$200,000,000 on the Stated Maturity Date shown above (except to the extent redeemed or repaid prior to the Stated Maturity Date) and to pay interest, if any, thereon at the Interest Rate shown above from the Original Issue Date shown above or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest, if any, has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually on June 15 and December 15 of each year (unless other Interest Payment Dates are shown on the face hereof) (each, an "Interest Payment Date") until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment and on the Stated Maturity Date, any Redemption Date or Repayment Date (such terms are together hereinafter referred to as the "Maturity Date" with respect to the principal repayable on such date); provided, however, that any payment of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, to be made on any Interest Payment Date or on the Maturity Date that is not a Business Day (as defined below) shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be, and no additional interest, if any, shall accrue on the amount so payable as a result of such delayed payment. For purposes of this Security, unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York; provided, however, that, if the Specified Currency shown above is a foreign currency, such day is also not a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in the Principal Financial Center (as defined below) of the country issuing the Specified Currency (or, if the Specified Currency is the euro, such day is also a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open). "Principal Financial Center" means the capital city of the country issuing the Specified Currency except that with respect to United States dollars, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Deutsche marks, Dutch guilders, South African rand and Swiss francs, the "Principal Financial Center" shall be The City of New York, Sydney and (solely in the case of the Specified Currency) Melbourne, Toronto, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, Johannesburg and Zurich, respectively.
 
Any interest hereon will accrue from, and including, the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date in respect of which interest, if any, has been paid or duly provided for (or from, and including, the Original Issue Date if no interest has been paid or duly provided for) to, but excluding, the succeeding Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be. The interest, if any, so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture and subject to certain exceptions described herein (referred to on the reverse hereof), be paid to the person (the "Holder") in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the April 1 or October 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date (unless other Regular Record Dates are specified on the face hereof) (each, a "Regular Record Date"); provided, however, that, if this Security was issued between a Regular Record Date and the initial Interest Payment Date relating to such Regular Record Date, interest, if any, for the period beginning on the Original Issue Date and ending on such initial Interest Payment Date shall be paid on the Interest Payment Date following the next succeeding
Regular Record Date to the Holder hereof on such next succeeding Regular Record Date; and provided further that interest, if any, payable on the Maturity Date will be payable to the person to whom the principal hereof shall be payable. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date other than the Maturity Date ("Defaulted Interest") will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date (the "Special Record Date") for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee (referred to on the reverse hereof), notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Security not less than ten days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
 
Unless otherwise specified above, all payments in respect of this Security will be made in U.S. dollars regardless of the Specified Currency shown above unless the Holder hereof makes the election described below. If the Specified Currency shown above is other than U.S. dollars, the Exchange Rate Agent (referred to on the reverse hereof) will arrange to convert any such amounts so payable in respect hereof into U.S. dollars in the manner described on the reverse hereof; provided, however, that the Holder hereof may, if so indicated above, elect to receive all or any specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest, if any, in respect of this Security in such Specified Currency by delivery of a written request to the corporate trust office of the Trustee in The City of New York, currently the office of the Trustee located at SunTrust Bank, c/o Depository Trust Company, 55 Water Street, New York, New York 10041, or at such other office in The City of New York, as the Company may determine, on or prior to the applicable Regular Record Date or at least fifteen days prior to the Maturity Date, as the case may be. Such request may be in writing (mailed or hand delivered) or by cable, telex or other form of facsimile transmission.  The Holder hereof may elect to receive payment in such Specified Currency for all principal, premium, if any, and interest payments, if any, and need not file a separate election for each payment. Such election will remain in effect until revoked by written notice to the Trustee, but written notice of any such revocation must be received by the Trustee on or prior to the applicable Regular Record Date or at least fifteen days prior to the Maturity Date, as the case may be.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company determines that the Specified Currency is not available for making payments in respect hereof due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the Company's control, or is no longer used by the government of the country issuing such currency or for the settlement of transactions by public institutions of or within the international banking community, then the Holder hereof may not so elect to receive payments in the Specified Currency and any such outstanding election shall be automatically suspended, until the Company determines that the Specified Currency is again available for making such payments. Any payment made under such circumstances in U.S. dollars where the required payment is in a Specified Currency will not constitute a default under the Indenture.
 
In the event of an official redenomination of the Specified Currency, the obligations of the Company with respect to payments on this Security, in all cases, shall be deemed immediately following such redenomination to provide for payment of that amount of redenominated currency representing the amount of such obligations immediately before such
redenomination. In no event shall any adjustment be made to any amount payable hereunder as a result of any change in the value of the Specified Currency shown above relative to any other currency due solely to fluctuations in exchange rates.
 
Until this Security is paid in full or payment therefor in full is duly provided for, the Company will at all times maintain a Paying Agent (which Paying Agent may be the Trustee) in The City of New York, currently the office of the Trustee located at SunTrust Bank, c/o Depository Trust Company, 55 Water Street, New York, New York 10041, or at such other office in The City of New York, as the Company may determine (which, unless otherwise specified above, shall be the "Place of Payment"). The Company has initially appointed SunTrust Bank, at its office in The City of New York, currently the office of the Trustee located at SunTrust Bank, c/o Depository Trust Company, 55 Water Street, New York, New York 10041, or at such other office in The City of New York as the Company may determine as Paying Agent.
 
Unless otherwise shown above, payment of interest on this Security (other than on the Maturity Date) will be made by check mailed to the registered address of the Holder hereof as of the Regular Record Date; provided, however, that, if (i) the Specified Currency is U.S. dollars and this is a Global Security (as defined on the reverse hereof) or (ii) the Specified Currency is a Foreign Currency, and the Holder has elected to receive payments in such Specified Currency as provided for above, such interest payments will be made by transfer of immediately available funds, but only if appropriate wire transfer instructions have been received in writing by the Trustee on or prior to the applicable Regular Record Date. Simultaneously with any election by the Holder hereof to receive payments in respect hereof in the Specified Currency (if other than U.S. dollars), such Holder may provide appropriate wire transfer instructions to the Trustee, and all such payments will be made in immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with a bank, but only if such bank has appropriate facilities therefor.  Unless otherwise specified above, the principal hereof (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, hereon payable on the Maturity Date will be paid in immediately available funds upon surrender of this Security at the office of the Trustee maintained for that purpose at SunTrust Bank, c/o Depository Trust Company, 55 Water Street, New York, New York 10041, or at such other office in The City of New York, as the Company may determine. The Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in making payments in immediately available funds but, except as otherwise provided under Additional Amounts above, any tax, assessment or governmental charge imposed upon payments will be borne by the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such payments are made.
 
Interest on this Security, if any, will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
 
REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS SECURITY SET FORTH ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its facsimile corporate seal.
 
 
Section 1.    General.    This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities (herein called the "Securities") of the Company, issued and to be issued in one or more series under that certain Indenture, dated as of December 5, 2000, as it may be supplemented from time to time (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and SunTrust Bank, Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to a series of which this Security is a part), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto, reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
 
Section 2.    Payments.    If the Specified Currency is other than U.S. dollars and the Holder hereof fails to elect payment in such Specified Currency in accordance with the procedures set forth on the face hereof, the amount of U.S. dollar payments to be made in respect hereof will be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent specified on the face hereof or a successor thereto (the "Exchange Rate Agent") based on the highest bid quotation in The City of New York at approximately 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the second Business Day preceding the applicable payment date received by the Exchange Rate Agent from three recognized foreign exchange dealers (one of whom may be the Exchange Rate Agent) selected by the Exchange Rate Agent and approved by the Company for the purchase by the quoting dealer of the Specified Currency for U.S. dollars for settlement on such payment date in the aggregate amount of the Specified Currency payable to all holders of Securities scheduled to receive U.S. dollar payments and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a contract. If three such bid quotations are not available, payments will be made in the Specified Currency.
 
If the Specified Currency is other than U.S. dollars and the Holder hereof has elected payment in such Specified Currency in accordance with the procedures set forth on the face hereof and the Specified Currency is not available due to the imposition of exchange controls or to other circumstances beyond the Company's control, the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to the Holder of this Security by making such payment in U.S. dollars on the basis of the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers of such Specified Currency as certified for customs purposes (or, if not so certified, as otherwise determined) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the "Market Exchange Rate") as computed by the Exchange Rate Agent on the second Business Day prior to the applicable payment date or, if the Market Exchange Rate is then not available, on the basis of the most recently available Market Exchange Rate or as otherwise indicated above. Any payment made under such circumstances in U.S. dollars where the required payment is in a Specified Currency will not constitute a default under the Indenture.
All determinations referred to above made by the Exchange Rate Agent shall be at its sole discretion (except to the extent expressly provided that any determination is subject to approval by the Company) and, in the absence of manifest error, shall be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holder of this Security, and the Exchange Rate Agent shall have no liability therefor.
 
All currency exchange costs will be borne by the Company.
 
References herein to "U.S. dollars" or "U.S. $" or "$" are to the currency of the United States of America.
 
Section 3.    Redemption.    If so specified on the face hereof, the Company may at its option redeem this Security in whole or from time to time in part in increments of $1,000 (provided that any remaining principal amount of this Security shall not be less than the Minimum Denomination specified on the face hereof) at the greater of (i) 100% of the unpaid principal amount hereof or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 15 basis points, plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of redemption.  The Company may exercise such option by causing the Trustee to mail a notice of such redemption at least 30 but not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date.  In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities for the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.  If less than all of the Securities with like tenor and terms to this Security are to be redeemed, the Securities to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.  However, if less than all the Securities of the series with differing tenor and terms to this Security are to be redeemed, then the Company in its sole discretion shall select the particular Securities to be redeemed and shall notify the Trustee in writing thereof at least 45 days prior to the relevant Redemption Date.
 
Section 4.    Repayment.    If so specified on the face hereof, this Security shall be repayable prior to the Stated Maturity Date at the option of the Holder on each applicable Optional Repayment Date shown on the face hereof at a repayment price equal to 100% of the principal amount to be repaid, together with accrued interest, if any, to the Repayment Date.  In order for this Security to be repaid, the Trustee must receive at least 30 but not more than 45 days prior to an Optional Repayment Date, this Security with the form attached hereto entitled "Option to Elect Repayment" duly completed. Any tender of this Security for repayment shall be irrevocable.  The repayment option may be exercised by the Holder of this Security in whole or in part in increments of $1,000 (provided that any remaining principal amount of this Security shall not be less than the Minimum Denomination specified on the face hereof). Upon any partial repayment, this Security shall be canceled and a new Security or Securities for the remaining principal amount hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder of this Security.
 
Section 5.    Discount Securities.    If this Security (such a Security being referred to as a "Discount Security") (a) has been issued at an Original Issue Price lower, by more than a de minimis amount (as determined under United States federal income tax rules applicable to
original issue discount instruments), than the stated redemption price at maturity (as defined below) hereof and (b) would be considered an original issue discount security for United States federal income tax purposes, then the amount payable on this Security in the event of redemption by the Company, repayment at the option of the Holder or acceleration of the maturity hereof, in lieu of the principal amount due at the Stated Maturity Date hereof, shall be the Amortized Face Amount (as defined below) of this Security as of the date of such redemption, repayment or acceleration. The "Amortized Face Amount" of this Security shall be the amount equal to the sum of (a) the Issue Price (as set forth on the face hereof) plus (b) the aggregate of the portions of the original issue discount (the excess of the amounts considered as part of the "stated redemption price at maturity" of this Security within the meaning of Section 1273(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), whether denominated as principal or interest, over the Issue Price of this Security) which shall theretofore have accrued pursuant to Section 1272 of the Code (without regard to Section 1272(a)(7) of the Code) from the date of issue of this Security to the date of determination, minus (c) any amount considered as part of the "stated redemption price at maturity" of this Security which has been paid on this Security from the date of issue to the date of determination.
 
Section 6.    Modification and Waivers; Obligation of the Company Absolute.    The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series.  Such amendment may be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture.  Provisions in the Indenture also permit the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of any series to waive on behalf of all of the Holders of Securities of such series certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Security and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
The Securities are unsecured and rank pari passu with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the Specified Currency herein prescribed, except as set forth in Section 2 on the reverse hereof.
 
Section 7.    Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance.    The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance
by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security, unless otherwise specified on the face hereof.
 
Section 8.    Minimum Denomination; Authorized Denominations.    Unless otherwise provided on the face hereof, this Security is issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000. If this Security is denominated in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars or is a Discount Security, this Security shall be issuable in the denominations set forth on the face hereof.
 
Section 9.    Registration of Transfer.    As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at a Place of Payment for the series of Securities of which this Security forms a part, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series, of like authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
If the registered owner of this Security is the Depository (such a Security being referred to as a "Global Security"), and (i) the Depository is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as depository and a successor depository is not appointed by the Company within 90 days following notice to the Company or (ii) an Event of Default occurs, the Company will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange for this Global Security.  In addition, the Company may at any time, and in its sole discretion, determine not to have Securities represented by a Global Security and, in such event, will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange in whole for this Global Security.  In any exchange pursuant to this paragraph, the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of individual Securities of this series in exchange for this Global Security, will authenticate and deliver individual Securities of this series in certificated form in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Global Security in exchange herefor. Securities issued in exchange for this Global Security pursuant to this paragraph shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depository, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee.  None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests in this Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.  For purposes of the Indenture, this Global Security constitutes a Security issued in permanent global form.  Securities so issued in certificated form will be issued in denominations of $1,000 (or such other denomination as shall be specified on the face hereof) or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000 and will be issued in registered form only, without coupons.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein and herein set forth, this Security is exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series of different authorized denominations but otherwise having the same terms and conditions, as requested by the Holder hereof surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Holder as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
Section 10.    Events of Default.    If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of the series of which this Security forms a part shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of this Security may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
Section 11.    Defined Terms.    All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
Section 12.    Governing Law.    Unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, this Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
 
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
 
Dated:
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
Board of Directors McCormick & Company, Incorporated 18 Loveton Circle Sparks, Maryland  21152
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We are acting as counsel to McCormick & Company, Incorporated, a Maryland corporation (the ""), in connection with its registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-122366) (the ""), previously declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission, relating to the public offering of debt securities of the Company that may be offered and sold by the Company from time to time as set forth in the prospectus dated January 28, 2005 (the ""), and as may be set forth from time to time in one or more supplements to the Prospectus.  This opinion letter is rendered in connection with the issuance and sale of $200 million aggregate principal amount of 5.20% Notes due 2015 (the ""), as described in a prospectus supplement dated December 1, 2005 (the "").  This opinion letter is furnished to you at your request to enable you to fulfill the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K, 17 C.F.R. 229.601(b)(5), in connection with the Registration Statement.
Company
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Notes
Prospectus Supplement
 
For purposes of this opinion letter, we have examined copies of the following documents:
 
An executed copy of the Registration Statement.
1.
                                      
 
The Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement.
2.
                                      
 
Executed copy of the Indenture, dated as of December 5, 2000, between the Company and SunTrust Bank, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the Officers' Certificate (as defined below) (together, the "").
3.
                                      
Trustee
Indenture
 
The Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the Notes (the "").
4.
                                      
Officers' Certificate
 
Specimen copy of the Notes.
5.
                                      
The Articles of Restatement of the Company, with amendments thereto (the ""), as certified by the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of the State of Maryland (the "") on December 5, 2005 and as certified by the Secretary of the Company on the date hereof as being complete, accurate and in effect.
6.
                                      
Charter
MSDAT
 
The by-laws of the Company, as certified by the Secretary of the Company on the date hereof as being complete, accurate and in effect (the "").
7.
                                      
Bylaws
 
Certain resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company adopted January 25, 2005 and September 27, 2005, as certified by the Secretary of the Company on the date hereof as being complete, accurate and in effect, relating to, among other things, the authorization and issuance of the Notes and authorization of the Indenture, as well as arrangements in connection therewith (collectively, the "").
8.
                                      
Resolutions
 
In our examination of the aforesaid documents, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of all natural persons, the accuracy and completeness of all documents submitted to us, the authenticity of all original documents, and the conformity to authentic original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies (including telecopies).  This opinion letter is given, and all statements herein are made, in the context of the foregoing.
 
This opinion letter is based as to matters of law solely on (i) the Maryland General Corporation Law, as amended, and (ii) the laws of the State of New York.  We express no opinion herein as to any other laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations.  As used herein, the term "Maryland General Corporation Law, as amended" includes the statutory provisions contained therein, all applicable provisions of the Maryland Constitution and reported judicial decisions interpreting these laws.
 
For the purposes of this opinion letter, we have assumed that (i) the Trustee has all requisite power and authority under all applicable laws, regulations and governing documents to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Indenture and has complied with all legal requirements pertaining to its status as such status relates to the Trustee's right to enforce the Indenture against the Company, (ii) the Trustee has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Indenture, (iii) the Trustee is validly existing and in good standing in all necessary jurisdictions, (iv) the Indenture constitutes a valid and binding obligation, enforceable against the Trustee in accordance with its terms, (v) there has been no mutual mistake of fact or misunderstanding or fraud, duress or undue influence in connection with the negotiation, execution or delivery of the Indenture, and the conduct of the Trustee has complied with any requirements of good faith, fair dealing and conscionability, and (vi) there are and have been no agreements or understandings among the parties, written or oral, and there is and has been no
usage of trade or course of prior dealing among the parties that would, in either case, define, supplement or qualify the terms of the Indenture.  We also have assumed the validity and constitutionality of each relevant statute, rule, regulation and agency action covered by this opinion letter.
 
Based upon, subject to and limited by the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the Notes have been duly authorized on behalf of the Company and that, following (i) receipt by the Company of the consideration specified in the Resolutions and (ii) the due execution, authentication, issuance and delivery of the Notes pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Notes will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company.
 
This opinion letter has been prepared for your use in connection with the filing by the Company of a Current Report on Form 8-K on the date hereof, which Form 8-K will be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and speaks as of the date hereof.  We assume no obligation to advise you of any changes in the foregoing subsequent to the delivery of this opinion letter.
 
In addition to the qualifications, exceptions and limitations elsewhere set forth in this opinion letter, our opinions expressed above are also subject to the effect of:  (a) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors' rights (including, without limitation, the effect of statutory and other law regarding fraudulent conveyances, fraudulent transfers and preferential transfers), and (b) the exercise of judicial discretion and the application of principles of equity, good faith, fair dealing, reasonableness, conscionability and materiality (regardless of whether the applicable agreements are considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter as Exhibit 5.1 to the above-described Form 8-K and to the reference to this firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement, each of which constitutes a part of the Registration Statement.  In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are an "expert" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 

Exhibit 8.1
 
Board of Directors McCormick & Company, Incorporated 18 Loveton Circle Sparks, Maryland  21152
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We are acting as counsel to McCormick & Company, Incorporated, a Maryland corporation (the ""), in connection with its registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-122366) (the ""), previously declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission, relating to the public offering of debt securities of the Company that may be offered and sold by the Company from time to time as set forth in the prospectus dated January 28, 2005 (the ""), and as may be set forth from time to time in one or more supplements to the Prospectus.  This opinion letter is rendered in connection with the proposed public offering of up to $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.20% Notes due 2015 (the "Notes"), as described in a prospectus supplement dated December 1, 2005 (the "").  This opinion letter is furnished to you at your request to enable you to fulfill the requirements of Item 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K, 17 C.F.R. 229.601(b)(8), in connection with the Registration Statement.  Capitalized terms used in this letter and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Prospectus Supplement.
Company
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Prospectus Supplement
 
This opinion letter is based as to matters of law solely on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, judicial authority, current administrative rulings and practice, and existing and proposed Treasury Regulations, all as in effect and existing on the date hereof (collectively, "").  These provisions and interpretations are subject to changes, which may or may not be retroactive in effect, that might result in material modifications of our opinion.  We express no opinion herein as to any other laws, statutes, regulations, or ordinances.  Our opinion does not foreclose the possibility of a contrary determination by the Internal Revenue Service (the "") or a court of competent jurisdiction, or of a contrary position by the IRS or the Treasury Department in regulations or rulings issued in the future.  In this regard, although we believe that our opinion set forth herein will be sustained if challenged, an opinion of counsel with respect to an issue is not binding on
federal income tax laws
IRS
the IRS or the courts, and is not a guarantee that the IRS will not assert a contrary position with respect to such issue or that a court will not sustain such a position asserted by the IRS.
 
In rendering the following opinion, we have examined such statutes, regulations, records, certificates and other documents as we have considered necessary or appropriate as a basis for such opinion, including (but not limited to) the following: (i) an executed copy of the Registration Statement; (ii) the Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement; (iii) a specimen copy of the Notes; and (iv) an executed copy of the Indenture, dated as of December 5, 2000, between the Company and SunTrust Bank, as trustee, as supplemented by the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the Notes.
 
In our review, we have assumed that all of the representations and statements set forth in such documents are true and correct, and all of the obligations imposed by any such documents on the parties thereto have been and will continue to be performed or satisfied in accordance with their terms.  We also have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the proper execution of all documents, the accuracy and completeness of all documents submitted to us, the authenticity of all original documents, and the conformity to authentic original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies (including telecopies).  This opinion letter is given, and all statements herein are made, in the context of the foregoing.
 
For purposes of rendering our opinion, we have not made an independent investigation of the facts set forth in any of the above-referenced documents, including the Prospectus.  We have consequently relied upon representations and information presented in such documents.
 
Based upon, and subject to, the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the discussion in the Prospectus Supplement under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences," to the extent that it describes provisions of federal income tax law, is correct in all material respects as of the date hereof.
 
We assume no obligation to advise you of any changes in the foregoing subsequent to the effective date of the Registration Statement.  This opinion letter has been prepared solely for your use in connection with the filing of the Registration Statement on the date of this opinion letter and should not be quoted in whole or in part or otherwise referred to, nor filed with or furnished to, any other governmental agency or other person or entity without the prior written consent of this firm.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement.  In giving such consent, we do not admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 

Exhibit 12.1
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
 
We consent to the reference to our firm under the caption "Experts" in the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-122366) and related Prospectus and Prospectus Supplement of McCormick & Company, Inc. and subsidiaries and to the incorporation by reference therein of our reports dated January 25, 2005, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of McCormick & Company, Inc. and subsidiaries, McCormick & Company, Inc. management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of McCormick & Company, Inc., incorporated by reference in its Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended November 30, 2004 and the related financial statement schedule of McCormick & Company, Inc. included therein, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 


