FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20051003171937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
McCormick & Company, Incorporated
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b).
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c).
o
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On September 27, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Registrant named John P. Bilbrey to the Board of Directors of the Registrant. Mr. Bilbrey is Senior Vice President of The Hershey Company and President of Hershey International.  The Hershey Company is a leading snack food company and the largest North American manufacturer of quality chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery products.
 
Mr. Bilbrey's appointment will be effective November 22, 2005.  Although it is expected that Mr. Bilbrey will be named to a Board committee, no determination has yet been made as to which Board committee Mr. Bilbrey will be named. The Registrant will file an amendment to this Report when Mr. Bilbrey is named to a Board committee.
 
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Bilbrey and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Bilbrey was selected as a director.
 
There have been no transactions, nor are there any currently proposed transactions, to which the Registrant was or is to be a party with which Mr. Bilbrey, or any member of his immediate family, had, or will have, a direct or indirect material interest.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
SPARKS, MD, OCTOBER 3   John P. Bilbrey, Senior Vice President of The Hershey Company and President of Hershey International, has been appointed to the Board of Directors of McCormick & Company, Incorporated, effective November 22, 2005.  In this capacity, Mr. Bilbrey is responsible for the leadership and executive management of all of Hershey's international operations.
 
Prior to joining Hershey, Mr. Bilbrey served in a number of senior management roles, including Senior Vice President of Mission Foods and President and Chief Executive Officer of Danone Waters of North America.  He also had more than 20 years of international consumer sales and marketing experience at Procter & Gamble, which included several overseas assignments.
 
Commented Robert J. Lawless, Chairman, President & CEO of McCormick, "We are very pleased with this appointment to our Board.  Mr. Bilbrey's extensive sales and marketing experience with international consumer products, coupled with his executive management responsibilities, will be very important to McCormick's future growth in the global marketplace."
 
McCormick is the international manufacturer and distributor of flavor products, including spices, herbs, seasonings, flavorings and extracts, and other specialty foods.
 
 
For information:
410-771-7310
10/2005
 


