FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20061212084539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
 
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
 
Date of Report  (Date of earliest event reported):  
December 12, 2006
 
 
McCormick & Company, Incorporated
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  
(410) 771-7301
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b).
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c).
o
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On December 12, 2006, the Registrant issued a press release to report certain organizational changes.
Furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release labeled "McCormick Announces Appointment of Alan Wilson as President and COO; Other Executive and Organizational Changes Announced."
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The exhibits to this report are listed in Item 8.01 above and in the Exhibit Index that follows the signature line.
igned hereunto duly authorized.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the unders
 
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SPARKS, MD, DECEMBER 12 - - - McCormick & Company, Incorporated (NYSE:MKC), today announced several executive and organizational changes effective January 1, 2007.
will be promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer.  Wilson will continue to report directly to Robert J. Lawless who has relinquished the title of President and will become Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  Wilson will have responsibility for McCormick's consumer and industrial businesses in North America and the Asia/Pacific region, as well as the Company's supply chain and information technology.
Alan D. Wilson
Wilson joined McCormick in 1993 and was most recently President  North American Consumer Foods and Supply Chain.  His assignments included President, McCormick Canada from 1998 to 2001, Vice President & General Manager, Sales and Marketing for the U.S. consumer business from 2001 to 2003, and President, U.S. Consumer Foods from 2003 to 2005.   Prior to McCormick, Wilson held increasingly responsible positions in product supply at Proctor & Gamble.
Alan has a great diversity of experience in general management and supply chain, and he has demonstrated his leadership capabilities in each position he has held.  He is respected as a leader who sets direction, is willing to make decisions, and is comfortable with complexity."
Lawless commented, "
will be promoted to President, North American Consumer Foods, reporting to Alan.  In addition to the Company's consumer business in the U.S. and Canada, Mark will be responsible for businesses in Mexico and Central America as well as all U.S. manufacturing plants.  Mark joined McCormick in 1996 as Vice President Sales & Marketing for the U.S. consumer business.  As President, McCormick Canada he led a significant restructuring of the business, and currently serves as President  International.
Mark T. Timbie
will be named President - Europe and based in the U.K. will manage both the consumer and industrial businesses for Europe, Middle East and Africa.  Lawrence will report to Bob Lawless.  Lawrence joined McCormick in 2003 when the Company acquired Zatarain's and is currently President  U.S. Consumer Foods.  Iwan Williams, who currently leads the European organization and consumer business, plans to leave McCormick at the end of January.
Lawrence E. Kurzius
Commenting further, Lawless said, "Alan, Mark and Lawrence have developed a great track record of accomplishments and have become respected leaders at the Company.  They
have an excellent understanding of our business and the food industry.  Their appointments reflect the continuation of succession planning that has been underway for several years.  I look forward to working with them in these new roles and am confident that they will continue to contribute to our success."
About McCormick
McCormick & Company, Incorporated is the global leader in the manufacture, marketing and distribution of spices, seasonings and flavors to the entire food industry  to foodservice and food manufacturers as well as to retail outlets.
For information contact:
 


