FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20061218090041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b).
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c).
o
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(b)           The Board of Directors of the Registrant has named Michael D. Mangan to the Board of Directors of the Registrant. Mr. Mangan is Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of The Black & Decker Corporation.
Mr. Mangan's appointment will be effective January 1, 2007.  He will become a member of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on the same date. Also effective January 1, 2007, William E. Stevens will succeed Barry Beracha as Chairman of the Compensation Committee and Margaret M.V. Preston will leave the Audit Committee and join the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Mangan and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Mangan was selected as a director.  There have been no transactions, nor are there any currently proposed transactions, to which the Registrant was or is to be a party with which Mr. Mangan, or any member of his immediate family, had, or will have, a direct or indirect material interest.
Furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release labeled "McCormick Appoints Michael Mangan to Board of Directors."
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           The exhibits to this report are listed in Item 5.02 above and in the Exhibit Index that follows the signature line.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
2

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SPARKS, MD, DECEMBER 18  McCormick & Company, Incorporated (NYSE:MKC), today announced that Michael D. Mangan, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Black & Decker Corporation, has been appointed to the Board of Directors of McCormick & Company, Incorporated, effective January 1, 2007.  Mr. Mangan has served in his current position at Black & Decker since 2000.
Prior to joining Black & Decker, Mr. Mangan was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Ryland Group for five years.  From 1981 to 1994, he was employed by General Motors and its GMAC subsidiary in positions involving strategic and business planning, corporate finance, new business activities, internal control and information systems.  At the time he left General Motors for Ryland, Mr. Mangan was Group Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of GMAC Mortgage Corporation.
Mr. Mangan received an MBA from Dartmouth College's Amos Tuck School of Business and holds a bachelor's degree from the General Motors Institute.
Commented Robert J. Lawless, Chairman, President & CEO of McCormick, "We are very pleased to have Mr. Mangan join our Board.  He not only brings a wealth of financial experience, but he also has considerable general management experience, which includes his current responsibility for Black & Decker's Fastening and Assembly Systems business.  His global perspective and extensive experience with multinational manufacturers of consumer products will be invaluable to McCormick and its stockholders."
About McCormick
McCormick & Company, Incorporated is the global leader in the manufacture, marketing and distribution of spices, seasonings and flavors to the entire food industry  to foodservice and food manufacturers as well as to retail outlets.
For information contact:
 


