FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20071210164936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
                
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01
         
Other Events.
 
On December 4, 2007, McCormick & Company, Incorporated (the "Company") entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, Banc of America Securities LLC and SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. as underwriters (the "Underwriters"), in connection with the issuance and sale of $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Notes due 2017 (the "Notes").  The Notes mature on December 15, 2017, with interest payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2008.  The Company may redeem the Notes at any time.  The closing of the offering occurred on December 7, 2007.  A copy of the Underwriting Agreement and the form of Notes are filed as exhibits to this report and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
On December 7, 2007, the Company entered into an indenture (the "Indenture") with The Bank of New York, as trustee, pursuant to which the Company may issue an unlimited amount of debt securities from time to time in one or more series.  The Notes are issued under the Indenture.  A copy of the Indenture is filed as an exhibit to this report and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
           The exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K are listed on the exhibit index, which appears elsewhere herein and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: December 10, 2007

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
Table of Contents
 
December 4, 2007
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
McCormick & Company, Incorporated, a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, Banc of America Securities LLC and  SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. (each an "Underwriter" and together the "Underwriters"), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A hereto of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.75% Notes due 2017 (the "Notes").
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, to be dated as of December 7, 2007 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee").  Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to Section 2.1 of the Indenture.  Notes issued in book-entry form will be issued in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary"), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated as of the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary.
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-147809) for the registration of securities, including the Notes, under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 of the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1933 Act (the "1933 Act Regulations").  Such registration statement automatically became effective upon filing and the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "1939 Act").  Such registration statement, in the form in which it became effective under the 1933 Act, including
any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B of the 1933 Act Regulations (the "Rule 430B Information"), is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; and the final prospectus and the final prospectus supplement relating to the offering of the Notes, in the forms first furnished to the Underwriters by the Company for use in connection with the offering of the Notes, are collectively referred to herein as the "Prospectus"; , , that all references to the "Registration Statement" and the "Prospectus" shall also be deemed to include all documents incorporated therein by reference pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), prior to the Initial Sale Time; that if the Company files a registration statement with the Commission pursuant to Rule 462(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations (the "Rule 462(b) Registration Statement"), then all references to "Registration Statement" shall also be deemed to include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement.  A "preliminary prospectus" shall be deemed to refer to (i) any prospectus used before the Registration Statement became effective and (ii) any prospectus that omitted, as applicable, the Rule 430B Information or other information to be included upon pricing in a form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations and was used after such effectiveness and prior to the initial delivery of the Prospectus to the Underwriters by the Company.  The term "Pricing Prospectus" shall mean the prospectus, as amended or supplemented, relating to the Notes that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to the Initial Sale Time (as defined herein), including any document incorporated by reference therein at the Initial Sale Time, and any preliminary or other prospectus supplement deemed to be a part thereof at the Initial Sale Time.  For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Pricing Prospectus or the preliminary prospectus, or to any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include any copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("EDGAR").
provided
however
provided
further
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "disclosed," "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Pricing Prospectus or any preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Pricing Prospectus or such preliminary prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time, and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the 1934 Act which is incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or such preliminary prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
On November 13, 2007, the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement, dated as of November 13, 2007 (the "Asset Purchase Agreement") with Conopco, Inc. ("Conopco"), under which the Company will purchase (the "Acquisition") from Conopco the assets used exclusively in connection with the manufacturing, marketing, distributing and selling of food products under the "Lawry's" and "Adolph's" brand names, including the "Lawry's" and "Adolph's" trade names, trademarks and service marks, and all associated goodwill.
SECTION 1.           .
Representations and Warranties
(a).  The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (as defined below) (in each case, a "Representation Date"), as follows:
           Representations and Warranties by the Company
(1)          
Compliance with Registration Requirements
.   The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act.  The Registration Statement (including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement) is effective under the 1933 Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement (or such Rule 462(b) Registration Statement) has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.  In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the 1939 Act.
The Registration Statement (including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement), at the time it or any post-effective amendment thereto (including the filing of the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Commission) became effective and at the Representation Date, complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the 1939 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1939 Act (the "1939 Act Regulations") and did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.  The Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, as of its date and at the Closing Date, did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto, made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 7(b) hereof; and the foregoing representations and warranties are given on the basis that any statement contained in a document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus prior to the Initial Sale Time shall be deemed not to be contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus if such statement has been modified or superseded by any statement in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus.
The prospectus filed as part of the Registration Statement as originally filed and the preliminary prospectus supplement filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the 1933 Act, complied when so filed in all material respects with the 1933 Act Regulations and the preliminary prospectus supplement and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical
to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(2)          
Incorporated Documents
.   The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus, (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "1934 Act Regulations") and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not and will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(3)          
Disclosure Package
.  The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Pricing Prospectus and (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act (each, an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus"), if any, as defined in Schedule B hereto.  As of 4:20 p.m. (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement (the "Initial Sale Time"), the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 7 hereof.
(4)          
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
.  (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the 1933 Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the 1933 Act, and (iv) as of the date hereof, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act.   The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the date hereof; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the 1933 Act or otherwise objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
(5)          
Company Not Ineligible Issuer
.  (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the date of the execution and delivery of this Agreement (with
such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act).
(6)          
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
.  Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Underwriters as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus.  If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Underwriters and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict.  The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter specifically for use therein,.
it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 7 hereof
(7)          
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company
.  The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than a preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus and the Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the
Underwriters
and included in Schedule B hereto, or the Registration Statement.
(8)          
Independent Accountants
.   Ernst & Young LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to certain of the financial statements (which term as used in this Agreement includes the related notes thereto) and any supporting schedules thereto included in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus, are independent public accountants as required by the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
(9)          
Financial Statements
.   The consolidated financial statements of the Company included in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus, together with the related schedules and notes, present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, at the dates indicated, and the statement of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, for the periods specified.  Such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved.  The supporting schedules, if any, included in the Registration Statement present fairly in accordance with GAAP the information required to be stated therein.  The selected financial data and the summary financial information included in each of the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus
present fairly the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus.  In addition, any pro forma financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and the related notes thereto included in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein, have been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines with respect to pro forma financial statements, and have been properly compiled on the bases described therein, and the assumptions used in the preparation thereof are reasonable and the adjustments used therein are appropriate to give effect to the transactions and circumstances referred to therein.
(10)        
No Material Adverse Change in Business
.   Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, except as otherwise stated therein, (A) there has been no material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business (a "Material Adverse Effect"), (B) there have been no transactions entered into by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, other than those arising in the ordinary course of business, which are material with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, and (C) except for regular dividends on the Company's common stock or preferred stock, in amounts per share that are consistent with past practice or the applicable charter document or supplement thereto, respectively, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock.
(11)        
Good Standing of the Company
.   The Company has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Maryland and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under, or as contemplated under, this Agreement.  The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each other jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(12)        
Good Standing of Subsidiaries
.   Each subsidiary of the Company that is a "significant subsidiary" as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X promulgated under the 1933 Act (each, a "Significant Subsidiary") has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.  Except as otherwise stated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus,
all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each "Significant Subsidiary" has been duly authorized and is validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity.  None of the outstanding shares of capital stock of any "Significant Subsidiary" was issued in violation of preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of such "Significant Subsidiary".
(13)        
Capitalization
.   The authorized, issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company conforms in all material respects to the descriptions thereof incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. Such shares of capital stock have been duly authorized and validly issued by the Company and are fully paid and non-assessable, and none of such shares of capital stock was issued in violation of preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of the Company.
(14)        
Authorization of this Agreement
.   This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
(15)        
Authorization of the Notes
.   The Notes have been duly authorized by the Company for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when issued and authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.  Such Notes are in the form contemplated by, and each registered holder thereof will be entitled to the benefits of, the Indenture.
(16)        
Authorization of the Indenture
.   The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.  The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, when executed and delivered on behalf of the Company, will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
(17)        
Description of the Notes
.   The Notes will conform in all material respects to the statements relating thereto contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and will be in substantially the form filed or incorporated by reference, as the case may be, as an exhibit to the Registration Statement.
(18)        
Description of the Indenture
.   The Indenture will conform in all material respects to the statements relating thereto contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and will be in substantially the form filed or incorporated by reference, as the case may be, as an exhibit to the Registration Statement.
(19)        
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
.   Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is in violation of its charter or by-laws or is in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound, or to which any of the assets, properties or operations of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is subject (collectively, "Agreements and Instruments"), except for such defaults that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.  The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Indenture and any other agreement or instrument entered into or issued or to be entered into or issued by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (including the issuance and sale of the Notes and the use of the proceeds from the sale of the Notes as described under the caption "Use of Proceeds") and compliance by the Company with its obligations hereunder and thereunder have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or passage of time or both, conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default or Repayment Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any assets, properties or operations of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries pursuant to, any Agreements and Instruments, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their assets, properties or operations.  As used herein, a "Repayment Event" means any event or condition which gives the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
(20)        
Absence of Labor Dispute
.   No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent, and the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or any of its subsidiaries' principal suppliers, manufacturers, customers or contractors, which, in either case, may reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(21)        
Absence of Business Interruptions.
   Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained, since the date of the latest audited financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Pricing
Prospectus and the Prospectus as amended or supplemented, any loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, which, in either case, may reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(22)        
Absence of Proceedings
.   There is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending, or to the knowledge of the Company threatened, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries which is required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (other than as stated therein), or which might reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or which might reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated under the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus, this Agreement or the Indenture or the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and thereunder.  The aggregate of all pending legal or governmental proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any of their respective assets, properties or operations is the subject which are not described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, including ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(23)        
Accuracy of Exhibits
.   There are no franchises, contracts or documents which are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein or to be filed as exhibits thereto which have not been so described and filed as required.
(24)        
Absence of Further Requirements
.   No filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency, domestic or foreign, is necessary or required for the due authorization, execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement or for the performance by the Company of the transactions contemplated under the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus, this Agreement, or the Indenture, except such as have been already made, obtained or rendered, as applicable.
(25)        
Possession of Intellectual Property
.   The Company and its subsidiaries own or possess, or can acquire on reasonable terms, adequate patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks, trade names or other intellectual property (collectively, "Intellectual Property") necessary to carry on the business now operated by them, except for any failure to own, possess or acquire, singly or in the aggregate, that could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice or is otherwise aware of any infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any Intellectual Property or of any facts or circumstances which would render any Intellectual Property invalid or inadequate to protect the interest of the Company or any of its subsidiaries therein, except for any infringement or conflict (if the subject of any unfavorable decision, ruling or
finding) or invalidity or inadequacy, singly or in the aggregate, that could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(26)        
Possession of Licenses and Permits
.   The Company and its subsidiaries possess such permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations (collectively, "Governmental Licenses") issued by the appropriate federal, state, local or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except where the non-possession of such Governmental Licenses could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  The Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Governmental Licenses, except where the failure so to comply could not reasonably be expected to, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.  All of the Governmental Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except where the invalidity of such Governmental Licenses or the failure of such Governmental Licenses to be in full force and effect could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Governmental Licenses which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(27)        
Maintenance of Internal Controls and Procedures
.  The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries maintain (x) systems of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; and (iii) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences and (y) disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 15d-15 under the 1934 Act.
(28)        
Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
.  The Company is, to its knowledge, in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that are effective and the rules and regulations of the Commission that have been adopted and are effective thereunder.
(29)        
Title to Property
.   The Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all real property owned by the Company and its subsidiaries and good title to all other properties owned by them, in each case, free and clear of all mortgages, pledges, liens, security interests, claims, restrictions or encumbrances of any kind, except (A) as otherwise stated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or (B) those which do not, singly or in the aggregate, materially affect the value of such property and do not interfere with the use made and proposed to be made of such property by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  All of the leases and subleases material to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, and under which the Company or any of its subsidiaries holds properties described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, are in full force and effect, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of any material claim of any sort that has been
 
asserted by anyone adverse to the rights of the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any of the leases or subleases mentioned above, or affecting or questioning the rights of the Company or such subsidiary of the continued possession of the leased or subleased premises under any such lease or sublease, except where the failure of such leases or subleases to be in full force and effect and any such claim, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(30)        
Tax Law Compliance
. 
Except to the extent that any such failures would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries have filed all necessary federal, state and foreign income and franchise tax returns and have paid all taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, except as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings.  The Company has made adequate charges, accruals and reserves in the applicable financial statements referred to in Section 1(a)(9) above in respect of all federal, state and foreign income and franchise taxes for all periods as to which the tax liability of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has not become due or been finally determined.
(31)        
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation
.  The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that might be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
(32)        
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments
.  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any employee or agent of the Company or any subsidiary in their capacities as such, has made any contribution or other payment to any official of, or candidate for, any federal, state or foreign office in violation of any law.
(33)        
Investment Company Act
.   The Company is not, and upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "1940 Act").
(34)        
Environmental Laws
.   Except as otherwise stated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and except as would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, (A) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent, decree or judgment, relating to pollution or protection of human health, the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to the release or threatened release of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum or petroleum products (collectively, "Hazardous
Materials") or to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), (B) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries fails to possess any permit, authorization or approval required under any applicable Environmental Laws or to be in compliance with their requirements, (C) there are no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigation or proceedings relating to any Environmental Law against the Company or any of its subsidiaries and (D) there are no events or circumstances that might reasonably be expected to form the basis of an order for clean-up or remediation, or an action, suit or proceeding by any private party or governmental body or agency, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries relating to Hazardous Materials or any Environmental Laws.
(35)        
Asset Purchase Agreement
.  The Asset Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes the valid and binding agreement of the Company.  The Company is not aware of any breach or violation by Conopco of its representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained in the Asset Purchase Agreement.
(b)  Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries and delivered to any Underwriter or to counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the offering of the Notes shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby on the date of such certificate.
           Officers' Certificates.
The Company acknowledges that the Underwriters and, for purposes of the opinions to be delivered pursuant to Section 6 hereof, counsel for the Company and counsel for the Underwriters, will rely upon the accuracy and truthfulness of the foregoing representations and hereby consents to such reliance.
SECTION 2.           .
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes
(a)  The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth.  On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 99.31% of the principal amount thereof payable on the Closing Date.
           The Notes.
(b)  Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Shearman & Sterling LLP (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the
           The Closing Date.
Underwriters
) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on December 7, 2007, or such other time and date thereafter as the
Underwriters
and the Company shall agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "Closing Date").
(c)  The
           Public Offering of the Notes.
Underwriters
hereby advise the Company that they intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after this Agreement has been executed as the
Underwriters,
in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
(d)  Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company, against delivery to the Underwriters of the Notes to be purchased by them.
           Payment for the Notes.
(e)  The Notes or certificates for the Notes, as applicable, shall be in such denominations and registered in such names as the
           Denominations; Registration.
Underwriters
may request in writing at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date.  The Notes or certificates for the Notes, as applicable, will be made available for examination and packaging by the
Underwriters
in The City of New York not later than 10:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the business day prior to the Closing Date, or at such other place and time as shall be agreed upon by the
Underwriters
and the Company or their respective counsel.
SECTION 3.           .  The Company covenants with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company
(a)  During such period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 (the "Prospectus Delivery Period"), prior to amending or supplementing the Registration Statement (including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement filed), the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (including any amendment or supplement through incorporation by reference of any report filed under the 1934 Act), the Company shall furnish to the
           Underwriters' Review of Proposed Amendments and Supplements.
Underwriters
for review a copy of each such proposed amendment or supplement, and the Company shall not file any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the
Underwriters
reasonably object.
(b)  The Company, subject to Section 3(a), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the 1933 Act Regulations and will notify the Underwriters promptly, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes.  The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file the Prospectus.  The Company
           Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof as soon as possible.
(c) The Company has furnished or will deliver to the
           Delivery of Registration Statements.
Underwriters
and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, conformed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the
Underwriters, upon request
, without charge, a signed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters.  The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(d)  The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the 1933 Act.  The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request.  Each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
           Delivery of Prospectuses.
(e) The Company will comply with the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event or development shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company will (1) notify the
           Continued Compliance with Securities Laws.
Underwriters
of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(a) and 3(f) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such requirements, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
(f)The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Notes, in a form approved by the
            Final Term Sheet. 
Underwriters
and attached as Schedule B hereto, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the "Final Term Sheet").  Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
(g)  The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the
           Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses.
Underwriters
, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the 1933 Act; provided that the prior written consent of the
Underwriters
shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Schedule B to this Agreement.  Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the
Underwriters is
hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus."  The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the 1933 Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping.  The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the 1933 Act, or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(m); provided that each Underwriter severally covenants with the Company not to take any action without the Company's consent that would result in the Company being required to file with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act a free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of such Underwriter that otherwise would not be required to be filed by the Company thereunder, but for the action of the Underwriter.
(h)  The Company will use its reasonable best efforts, in cooperation with the
           Blue Sky Qualifications.
Underwriters
and counsel for the Underwriters, to qualify or register the Notes for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the
Underwriters
may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect for as long as necessary to complete the distribution of the Notes, up to one year from the date of this Agreement; , , that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject.  In each jurisdiction in which the Notes have been so qualified, the Company will file such statements and reports as may be required by the laws of such jurisdiction to continue such qualification in effect for a period of not less than one year from the date of this Agreement.
provided
however
(i) The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as
            Earnings Statement.
soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
(j) The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Notes in the manner specified in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
            Use of Proceeds.
(k)  The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its reasonable best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
           Depositary.
(l) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the
            Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
Underwriters
(which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the
Underwriters
), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the 1934 Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the 1933 Act in respect of,any debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
(m)  During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission reports and all documents required to be filed under the 1934 Act within the time period required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
          Reporting Requirements.
The Underwriters may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or grant the Company additional time in which to perform such covenants.
SECTION 4.           .  Each Underwriter represents, warrants and covenants with the Company as follows:
Covenants of the Underwriters
(a)          
It has not and will not use, authorize use of, refer to, or participate in the planning for use of, any "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (which term includes use of any written information furnished to the Commission by the Company and not incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and any press release issued by the Company) other than (i) a free writing prospectus that, solely as a result of use by such Underwriter, would not trigger an obligation to file such free writing prospectus with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433, (ii) any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus set forth on Schedule B hereto or prepared pursuant to Section 3(e), Section 3(f) or Section 3(g) above, or (iii) any free writing prospectus prepared by such Underwriter and approved by the Company in advance in writing (each such free writing prospectus referred to in clauses (i) or (iii), an "Underwriter Free Writing Prospectus").
(b)          
It has not and will not, without the prior written consent of the Company, use any free writing prospectus that contains the final terms of the Securities unless such terms have previously been included in a free writing prospectus (i) filed with the Commission or (ii) that is a final pricing term sheet in the form of Schedule B hereto prepared by such Underwriter and approved verbally or in written form (including by electronic means) by the Company in advance (which approval the Company agrees to provide as soon as practically possible); that any Underwriter using such term sheet shall notify the Company, and provide a copy of such term sheet to the Company, prior to, or substantially concurrently with, the first use of such term sheet.
provided
further
(c)          
It will, pursuant to reasonable procedures developed in good faith, retain copies of each free writing prospectus used or referred to by it, in accordance with Rule 433 under the Securities Act.
SECTION 5.           .
Payment of Expenses
(a)  The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including, without limitation, (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any agreement among Underwriters, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Notes, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the Notes, any certificates for the Notes, as applicable, to the Underwriters, including any transfer taxes and any stamp or other duties payable upon the sale, issuance or delivery of the Notes to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors or agents (including transfer agents and registrars), as well as the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel, (v) the qualification of the Notes under state securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(h) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation, printing and delivery of the Blue Sky and Legal Investment Survey, and any amendment thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, (vii) the fees charged by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations for the rating of the Notes, (viii) the fees and expenses incurred with respect to the listing of the Notes, if applicable, (ix) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") of the terms of the sale of the Notes, and (x) the fees and expenses of any Underwriter acting in the capacity of a "qualified independent underwriter" (as defined in Section 2(l) of Schedule E of the bylaws of FINRA), if applicable.
           Expenses.
(b)  If this Agreement is terminated by the
           Termination of Agreement.
Underwriters
in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 or Section 10 hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the offering of Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
SECTION 6.           .  The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided in this Agreement are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained in Section 1 hereof and as of each Representation Date, to the accuracy of the statements made in certificates of any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
(a)  The Registration Statement, including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, has become effective under the 1933 Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or shall be pending or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the 1933 Act or otherwise objecting to the use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.  A Prospectus containing information relating to the description of the Notes and the specific method of distribution and similar matters shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b)(1), (2), (3), (4) or (5), as applicable (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A).
           Effectiveness of Registration Statement.
(b) On the Closing Date, the
           Opinion of Associate General Counsel for Company.
Underwriters
shall have received the opinion, dated as of the Closing Date, of W. Geoffrey Carpenter, Associate General Counsel of the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request.
(c)  On the Closing Date, the
           Opinion of Counsel for Company.
Underwriters
shall have received the opinion, dated as of the Closing Date, of Hogan & Hartson L.L.P., counsel for the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request.
(d)  On the Closing Date, the
           Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters.
Underwriters
shall have received an opinion, dated as of the Closing Date, of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Underwriters.
(e)  For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date, or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, there shall not have been any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not
           Officers' Certificate.
arising in the ordinary course of business, and the
Underwriters
shall have received a certificate of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Company, dated as of the Closing Date, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in Section 1(a) are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of the Closing Date, (iii) the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Date, and (iv) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted, are pending or, to the best of such officer's knowledge, are threatened by the Commission.
(f)  On the date hereof, the
            Accountant's Comfort Letter.
Underwriters
shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, a letter dated the date hereof, addressed to the
Underwriters
and the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Underwriters
, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
(g)  On the Closing Date, the
           Bring-down Comfort Letter.
Underwriters
shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Underwriters
, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to subsection (f) of this Section 6, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
(h)  For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date, the Notes shall have the ratings accorded by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations, and the Company shall have delivered to the
           Ratings.
Underwriters
a letter, dated as of the Closing Date, from each such rating organization, or other evidence satisfactory to the
Underwriters
, confirming that the Notes have such ratings.  For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date, there shall not have occurred a downgrading in, or withdrawal of, the rating assigned to the Notes or any of the Company's other securities by any such rating organization, and, other than the public announcements by each of Standard & Poor's, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and Moody's Investors Service, Inc. on November 14, 2007, no such rating organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review its rating of the Notes or any of the Company's other securities.
(i)  If the Registration Statement or an offering of Notes has been filed with FINRA for review, FINRA shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
            No Objection.
(j)  On or before the Closing Date, the
            Additional Documents.
Underwriters
and counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the
representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes as herein contemplated shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the
Underwriters
and counsel for the Underwriters.
(k)  If any condition specified in this Section 6 shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the
           Termination of this Agreement.
Underwriters
by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to the Closing Date and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 5 and except that Sections 1, 7, 8 and 9 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
(l)            .   The Asset Purchase Agreement remains in effect and has not been terminated and the terms of the Acquisition, as contained in the Asset Purchase Agreement, have not been amended.
Asset Purchase Agreement
SECTION 7.           .
Indemnification
(a)  The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
           Indemnification of Underwriters.
(1)          
against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information deemed to be a part thereof, if applicable, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact included in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus, the Pricing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
(2)          
against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 7(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company; and
(3)          
against any and all expenses whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the
Underwriters
), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue
statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (1) or (2) above;
provided
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information deemed to be a part thereof, if applicable, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus, the Pricing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
however
(b)  Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information deemed to be a part thereof, if applicable, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).  The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information that the
           Indemnification of the Company, Directors and Officers.
Underwriters
have furnished to the Company expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in the table beneath the first paragraph and the third and fifth paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting" in the Pricing Prospectus.  The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 7(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
(c)  Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement.  In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 7(a) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the
           Actions against Parties; Notification.
Underwriters
, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 7(b) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company.  An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; , , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party.  In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances.  No indemnifying party shall, without the prior
provided
however
written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 7 or Section 8 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
(d)  If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 7(a)(2) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.
           Settlement without Consent if Failure to Reimburse.
SECTION 8.           .  If the indemnification provided for in Section 7 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of such Notes (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus, bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of such Notes as set forth on such cover.
The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
 
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 8.  The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 8 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus.
 
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
 
For purposes of this Section 8, each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.  The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A.
 
SECTION 9.  .  All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company or any of its subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto or thereto shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or controlling person, or by or on behalf of the Company, and shall survive delivery of and payment for the Notes.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery
 
SECTION 10.  .
Termination
 
(a).  This Agreement may be terminated for any reason at any time by the Company or by the
           Termination of this Agreement by the Company or the Underwriters
Underwriters
upon the giving of prior written notice of such termination to the other party hereto.
 
(b).  The
           Termination of this Agreement by the Underwriters
Underwriters
may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to the Closing Date, if (i) there has been, since the date hereof or since the respective dates as of which
information is given in the Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii)  there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or, in the international financial markets, or any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the
Underwriters
, impracticable to market the Notes or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Notes, or (iii) trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission, the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq National Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by either of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, FINRA or any other governmental authority, or (iv) a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities, or (v) there has occurred a material disruption in securities settlement or clearance systems.
 
(c).  If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section 10, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 5 hereof, and that Sections 1, 7, 8 and 9 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
           Liabilities
provided
further
 
SECTION 11.  .  If, on the Closing Date, any one of the several Underwriters shall fail to purchase the Notes that it has agreed to purchase hereunder on such date (the "Defaulted Notes"), then the non-defaulting
Default by One of the Several Underwriters
Underwriter
shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements to, or for any other underwriters to, purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Notes in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the non-defaulting
Underwriter
shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then:
 
(a)           if the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Defaulted Notes does not exceed 10% of the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Notes to be purchased on such date, the non-defaulting Underwriter shall be obligated to purchase the full amount thereof which such defaulting Underwriter agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date, or
 
(b)           if the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Defaulted Notes exceeds 10% of the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Notes to be purchased on such date and arrangements satisfactory to the non-defaulting
Underwriter
and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Section 5, Section 7 and Section 8 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.  In any such case either the non-defaulting
Underwriter
or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 11.  No action taken pursuant to this Section 11 shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of its default.
 
SECTION 12.  .  The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company, or its affiliates, shareholders or employees; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.  The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
 
SECTION 13.  .  All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication.  Notices shall be directed to the parties hereto as follows:
Notices
 
If to the
Underwriters
:
 
Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC One Wachovia Center 301 South College Street, Floor 7
Charlotte, North Carolina 28288 Facsimile:  (704) 383-0661 Attention:  Investment Grade Syndicate
 
and
Banc of America Securities LLC 40 West 57
th
 Street New York, New York 10019 Facsimile:  212-901-7881
Attention:  High Grade Transaction Management
 
and
 
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
303 Peachtree Street, 24th floor
Atlanta, Georgia 30308
Facsimile: (404)588-7005
Attention: Chris Grumboski
 
and
 
Shearman & Sterling LLP 599 Lexington Avenue New York, New York 10022 Facsimile:  (212) 848-7179 Attention:  Michael J. Schiavone
 
If to the Company:
 
McCormick & Company, Incorporated 18 Loveton Circle Sparks, Maryland 21152 Facsimile:  (410) 527-8228 Attention:  Corporate Secretary
 
and
 
Hogan & Hartson LLP Columbia Square 555 Thirteenth Street, NW
Washington, DC  20004
Facsimile:  (202) 637-5910 Attention:  John B. Beckman
 
SECTION 14.  .  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 11 hereof.  Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 7 and 8 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained.  This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof is intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and
Parties
directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation.  No purchaser of Notes from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
 
SECTION 15.  .  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.  SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
Governing Law and Time
 
SECTION 16.  .  The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
SECTION 17.  .  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts and, if executed in more than one counterpart, the executed counterparts hereof shall constitute a single instrument.
Counterparts
 
 
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this Agreement, along with all counterparts, shall become a binding agreement between the
Underwriters
and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by each undersigned Underwriter
as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
 
SCHEDULE B
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates.  Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering.  You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, Wachovia Capital Markets LLC, Banc of America Securities LLC and SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling or e-mailing Wachovia Capital Markets LLC at 1-866-289-1262, Banc of America Securities
LLC at 1-800-294-1322 or dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com or SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. at 1-800-685-4786.
Exhibit A
References to the Prospectus in this Exhibit A include any supplements thereto at the Closing Date.
(a)
                                 
The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not result in any material adverse change in the business, financial condition, business prospects or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
 
(b)           The execution, delivery and performance as of the date hereof by the Company of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and any other agreement or instrument entered into or issued by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated in the Underwriting Agreement, the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, and the offer, issuance and sale of the Notes pursuant thereto do not, to my knowledge, (i)violate any applicable judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency or governmental body of the United States Federal government or the State of Maryland issued in a proceeding to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party, (ii)breach or constitute a default under any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other material agreement to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party, or (iii) result in any violation of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
 
(c)
                                 
To my knowledge, other than as set forth in the Prospectus, there are no actions, suits or proceedings pending or threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, before any court or governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality that question the validity of the Underwriting Agreement or the Indenture or any action taken or to be taken pursuant thereto, or that seek to enjoin or otherwise prevent the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement or the Indenture or to recover in damages or obtain other relief as a result thereof, or that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate result in any material liability on the part of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or in any material adverse change in the business, financial condition, business prospects or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
 
(d)
                                
To my knowledge, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of its charter or by-laws or in default in the performance or observance of any material obligation, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, lease or other material agreement or material instrument to which it is a party except
for such defaults as would not result in any material liability on the part of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or in any material adverse change in the business, financial condition, business prospects or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
 
(e)
                                 
To my knowledge, the Company and each of its subsidiaries possess such valid and current certificates, authorizations, permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies (including, without limitation, any insurance regulatory agencies or bodies) necessary to conduct their respective businesses except where such failure to possess such valid and current certificates, authorizations, permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change, and to my knowledge, no state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies (including, without limitation, any insurance regulatory agencies or bodies) are considering the revocation or modification of, any such , authorization, permit, license, approval, consent or other authorization (including, without limitation, any certificate, authorization, permit, license, approval, consent or other authorization from any insurance regulatory agencies or bodies) which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could result in a Material Adverse Change.
certificate
 
(f)
                                   
The information under the caption "Legal Proceedings" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2006, to the extent such statements constitute matters of law, summaries of legal matters, or legal conclusions, has been reviewed by me and is correct in all material respects.
(g)
                                
The Asset Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered on behalf of the Company and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms.
In addition, such counsel shall also state (which statement may be in a separate letter in customary form) that
no facts have come to its attention that cause it to believe that:
(i) the Registration Statement, as of the date of the Underwriting Agreement, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading,
(ii) the Prospectus, as of its date or as of the date hereof, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading,
(iii) the Pricing Disclosure Package, as of 4:20 p.m. (New York City time) on December 4, 2007, (which you have informed us is a time prior to the time of the first sale of the Notes by any Underwriter), contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact (but not as to legal conclusions), to the extent it deems proper, on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials.  Such opinion shall not state that it is to be governed or qualified by, or that it is otherwise subject to, any treatise, written policy or other document relating to legal opinions, including, without limitation, the Legal Opinion Accord of the ABA Section of Business Law (1991).
,
Exhibit B
References to the Prospectus in this Exhibit B include any supplements thereto at the Closing Date.
(a)           The Company is validly existing as a corporation and in good standing as of the date of a certificate of good standing from the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of the State of Maryland dated as of a recent date and telecopy confirmation of such good standing from CT Corporation System dated as of the Closing Date, under the laws of the State of Maryland.  The Company has the corporate power and corporate authority under the Charter and the Maryland Corporation Law to own, lease and operate its current properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus, and to execute, deliver and perform the Agreements.
(b)           The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered on behalf of the Company.
(c)           The Notes are in a form contemplated by the Indenture.  The Notes have been authorized and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the Indenture and delivered against payment of the consideration therefor, each registered holder of a Note will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and the Notes will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
(d)           The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered on behalf of the Company and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms.
(e)           The information contained in the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Debt Securities," "Description of Notes," and "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" to the extent that such information constitutes matters of law or legal conclusions or purports to describe certain provisions of the Indenture, the Notes or the Underwriting Agreement, has been reviewed by us and is correct in all material respects.
(f)            The execution, delivery and performance as of the date hereof by the Company of the Agreements do not (i) violate the Charter or Bylaws of the Company, or (ii)  violate any provision of Applicable Federal Law or Applicable State Law.
(g)           The Registration Statement became effective under the Securities Act upon its filing with the Commission.  Based solely upon telephone communications between an attorney of this firm and a member of the Commission staff, the Company is not the subject of a pending proceeding under Section 8A of the Securities Act in connection with the offering of the Securities, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, if any, has
been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or are pending or are contemplated by the Commission against the Company.
(h)           The Registration Statement and the Prospectus (except for the Form T-1 and the financial statements and supporting schedules and other financial data included or incorporated therein, or omitted therefrom, as to which we express no opinion) comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
(i)            Each of the Exchange Act Reports (as defined in Schedule 1 hereto) (except for the financial statements and supporting schedules included therein and other financial data included or incorporated therein, or omitted therefrom, as to which we express no opinion), at the time it was filed with the Commission, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
(j)            No approval or consent of, or filing with any Federal governmental agency or the Department of Assessments and Taxation of the State of Maryland or the Secretary of State of the State of New York is required to be obtained or made by the Company under Applicable Federal Law, Maryland Corporation Law, or Applicable State Law in connection with the execution, delivery and performance as of the date hereof by the Company of the Agreements.
(k)           The Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
(l)            The Company is not, and immediately following the issuance and sale of the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company,"
within the meaning of
the Investment Company Act.
                                In addition, such counsel shall also state (which statement may be in a separate letter in customary form) that
no facts have come to its attention that cause it to believe that:
                                (i) the Registration Statement, as of the date of the Underwriting Agreement, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading,
                                (ii) the Prospectus, as of its date or as of the date hereof, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading,
                                (iii) the Pricing Disclosure Package, as of
4:20 p.m. (New York City time) on December 4, 2007
(which you have informed us is a time prior to the time of the first sale of the Notes by any Underwriter)
, when considered together with the information contained in Schedule B hereto (
which you have informed us was available at or prior to such time)
,
contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact (but not as to legal conclusions), to the extent they deem proper, on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials.  Such opinion shall not state that it is to be governed or qualified by, or that it is otherwise subject to, any treatise, written policy or other document relating to legal opinions, including, without limitation, the Legal Opinion Accord of the ABA Section of Business Law (1991).
,
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)           Note: This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of this Indenture.
 
                INDENTURE, dated as of Decemb
er 7, 20
07, between McCORMICK & COMPANY, INCORPORATED, a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee").
 
 
                The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as in this Indenture provided.
 
                All things necessary have been done to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms.
 
                NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
 
                For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities, as follows:
 
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION
Section 1.1  Definitions.
                For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
 
                (a)           the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular;
 
                (b)           all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
 
                (c)           all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the date of this Indenture; and
 
                (d)           the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
 
                "Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 1.4.
 
                "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
 
                "Attributable Debt" with respect to any sale leaseback transaction restricted by Section 10.8 means the lesser of (i) the total net amount of rent required to be paid during the remaining base term of the related lease or until the earliest date on which the lessee may terminate such lease upon payment of a penalty or a lump-sum termination payment (in which case the total net rent shall include such penalty or termination payment), discounted
 
at the weighted average interest rate borne by the Outstanding Securities, compounded semi-annually, or (ii) the sale price of the property so leased multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the remaining base term of the related lease and the denominator of which is the base term of such lease.
 
                "Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities.
 
                "Beneficial Owner" means, with respect to Global Securities, the Person who is the beneficial owner of such Securities as reflected on the books of the Depositary for such Securities or on the books of a Person maintaining an account with such Depositary (directly or as an indirect participant, in accordance with the rules of such Depositary).
 
                "Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Company, as the case may be, or any duly authorized committee of that board.
 
                "Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
                "Business Day", when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
 
                "Certificate of a Firm of Independent Public Accountants" means a certificate signed by any firm of independent public accountants of recognized standing selected by the Company. The term "independent" when used with respect to any specified firm of public accountants means such a firm which (1) is in fact independent, (2) does not have any direct financial interest or any material indirect financial interest in the Company or in any other obligor upon the Securities of any series or in any affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor, and (3) is not connected with the Company or such other obligor or any affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor, as an officer, employee, promoter, underwriter, trustee, partner, director or Person performing similar functions, but such firm may be the regular auditors employed by the Company. Whenever it is herein provided that any Certificate of a Firm of Independent Public Accountants shall be furnished to the Trustee for Securities of any series, such Certificate shall state that the signer has read this definition and that the signer is independent within the meaning hereof.
 
                "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
 
                "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument, until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
 
                "Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any one of its Chairman of the Board, its President or a Vice President, and by any one of its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
                "Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the total assets of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the investment in (at equity) and the net amount of advances to and accounts receivable from corporations which are not consolidated subsidiaries less the following:
 
(i)
                                    
current liabilities of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, including an amount equal to indebtedness required to be redeemed by reason of any sinking fund payment due in 12 months or less from the date as of which current liabilities are to be determined;
 
(ii)
                                 
all other liabilities of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries other than Funded Debt, deferred income taxes and liabilities for employee post-retirement health plans other than pensions recognized in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106;
 
(iii)
                              
all depreciation and valuation reserves and all other reserves (except for reserves for contingencies which have not been allocated to any particular purpose) of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries;
 
(iv)
                             
the book amount of all segregated intangible assets of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, including, but without limitation, such items as goodwill, trademarks, trade names, patents and unamortized debt discount and expense less unamortized debt premium; and
 
(v)
                                
appropriate adjustments on account of minority interests of other Persons holding stock in subsidiaries.
 
                Consolidated Net Tangible Assets shall be determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and as provided herein.
 
                "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date of execution of this Indenture is located at 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8 West, New York, New York 10286, Attention:  Corporate Trust Administration, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
                "corporation" includes corporations, associations, companies and business trusts.
 
                "Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 3.7.
 
                "Depositary" means a clearing agency registered as such under the Exchange Act, as amended, or any successor thereto, which shall in either case be designated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1 until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Depositary hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Depositary" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Securities of that series.
 
                "Discounted Security" means any Security which provides for an amount (excluding any amounts attributable to accrued but unpaid interest thereon) less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.2.
 
                "Dollars" and the sign "$" mean the currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
 
                "Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Article V.
 
                "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
                "Exempted Indebtedness" means as of any particular time the sum of (i) all then outstanding indebtedness for borrowed money of the Company and Restricted Subsidiaries incurred after the date hereof and secured by any mortgage, security interest, pledge or lien other than those permitted by paragraph (a) of Section 10.7, and (ii) all Attributable Debt with respect to Sale and Leaseback Transactions entered into by the Company and Restricted Subsidiaries after the date hereof other than those permitted by paragraph (a) of Section 10.8.
 
                "Funded Debt" means any indebtedness of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary for borrowed money having a maturity of more than 12 months from the date such indebtedness was incurred or having a maturity of less
than 12 months but by its terms being renewable or extendable beyond 12 months from the date such indebtedness was incurred at the option of the obligor.
 
                "Global Security" means a Security evidencing all or part of a series of Securities which is executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instructions, all in accordance with this Indenture and pursuant to a Company Order, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and which shall represent the amount of uncertificated securities as specified therein.
 
                "Government Obligations" means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the government which issued the currency in which the Securities of a particular series are payable or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the government that issued the currency in which the Securities of such series are payable, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed by such government, which, in either case, are full faith and credit obligations of such government payable in such currency and are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof.
 
                "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
 
                "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 3.1.
 
                "Interest", when used with respect to a Discounted Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
 
                "Interest Payment Date", when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
 
                "Maturity", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
 
                "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice President or the Treasurer, and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
                "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company (including in-house counsel), and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
                "Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
 
                (a)           Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
 
                (b)           Securities, or portions thereof, for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; provided that if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; and Securities, except to the extent provided in Section 4.3, with respect to which the Company has effected defeasance as provided in Article IV; and
 
                (c)           Securities that have been paid pursuant to Section 3.6 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands the Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
 
provided
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, (i) Securities owned by the Company, any obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that (A) in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded and (B) Securities so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor; and (ii) the principal amount of any Discounted Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon a declaration of acceleration pursuant to Section 5.2.
however
 
                "Paying Agent" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company.
 
                "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
 
                "Place of Payment", when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 3.1.
 
                "Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 3.6 in exchange for a mutilated Security or in lieu of a lost, destroyed or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, lost, destroyed or stolen Security.
 
                "Principal Property" means any manufacturing or processing plant or warehouse, together with the land upon which it is erected and any fixtures and equipment comprising a part thereof, owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and located in the United States, the book value (net of depreciation) of which on the date as of which the determination is being made is an amount which exceeds 1% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets, other than any such manufacturing or processing plant or warehouse or any portion thereof or any such fixture or equipment (together with the land upon which it is erected and any fixtures and equipment comprising a part thereof) (i) which is financed by Industrial Development Bonds or (ii) which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
                "Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
 
                "Redemption Price", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
 
                "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 3.1.
 
                "Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer assigned to the Corporate Trust Department of the Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by Persons, who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his or her knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
 
                "Restricted Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary that owns, operates or leases one or more Principal Properties.
 
                "Securities" has the meaning specified in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
 
                "Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 3.5.
 
                "Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.7.
 
                "Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
 
                "Subsidiary" means each corporation of which the Company or the Company and one or more Subsidiaries, or any one or more Subsidiaries, directly or indirectly own securities entitling the holders thereof to elect a majority of the directors, either at all times or so long as there is no default or contingency that permits the holders of any other class or classes of securities to vote for the election of one or more directors.
 
                "Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean such successor Trustee, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
 
                "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
 
                "Yield to Maturity", when used with respect to any Discounted Security, means the yield to maturity, if any, set forth on the face thereof.
Section 1.2  Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
                Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company or any obligor on the Securities shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture (including any covenants, compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent) relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that, in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
 
                Every certificate (other than certificates provided pursuant to Section 10.9) or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
 
                (a)           a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
 
                (b)           a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
 
                (c)           a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
 
                (d)           a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
 
Section 1.3  Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
                In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, any one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
 
                Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
 
                Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
Section 1.4  Acts of Holders.
                (a)           Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 6.1) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
 
                (b)           The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
 
                (c)           The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
 
                (d)           Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action by the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security or the Holder of every Security issued upon the transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof, in respect of anything done, suffered or omitted to be done by the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
Section 1.5  Notices, etc. to Trustee and Company.
                Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
 
                (a)           the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed, in writing, to or with the Trustee at 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8W, New York, New York 10286 Attn: Corporate Trust Administration; or
 
                (b)           the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose (except as provided in Section 5.1(c)) hereunder if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at 18 Loveton Circle, Sparks, Maryland, 21152, Attention: Secretary; or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
Section 1.6  Notice to Holders; Waiver.
                Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Any notice when mailed to a Holder in the aforesaid manner shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by such Holder whether or not actually received by such Holder. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
 
                In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impracticable to mail notice of any event as required by any provision of this Indenture, then any method of giving such notice as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee shall be deemed to be a sufficient giving of such notice.
Section 1.7  Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
                If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by any of Sections 310 through 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act through the operation of Section 318(c) thereof, such imposed duties shall control.
Section 1.8  Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
                The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 1.9  Successors and Assigns.
                All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Section 1.10  Separability Clause.
                In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 1.11  Benefits of Indenture.
                Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person (other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, any Paying Agent and the Holders) any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
 
Section 1.12  Governing Law.
                This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Section 1.13  Legal Holidays.
                In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity, and no interest shall accrue with respect to such payment for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, to such next succeeding Business Day.
Section 1.14  Certain Matters Relating to Currencies.
                Whenever any action or Act is to be taken hereunder by the Holders of Securities denominated in different currencies or currency units, then for purposes of determining the principal amount of Securities held by such Holders, the aggregate principal amount of the Securities denominated in a foreign currency or currency unit shall be deemed to be that amount of Dollars that could be obtained for such principal amount on the basis of a spot rate of exchange specified to the Trustee for such series in an Officers' Certificate for such Foreign Currency or currency unit into Dollars as of the date the taking of such action or Act by the Holders of the requisite percentage in principal amount of the Securities is evidenced to such Trustee.
 
                The Trustee shall segregate moneys, funds and accounts held by the Trustee in one currency or currency unit from any moneys, funds or accounts held in any other currencies or currency units, notwithstanding any provision herein that would otherwise permit the Trustee to commingle such amounts.
Section 1.15  Force Majeure.
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities or communications services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
ARTICLE II SECURITY FORMS
Section 2.1  Forms Generally.
                The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the form established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. If the form of Securities of any series is established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 3.3 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities.
 
                The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved or produced by any combination of these methods or may be produced in any other manner permitted by the rules of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
Section 2.2  Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
                Subject to Section 6.14, the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
 
This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
ARTICLE III THE SECURITIES
Section 3.1  Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
                The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
 
                The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of any series,
 
                (1)           the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other Securities);
 
                (2)           any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Sections 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 9.6 or 11.7);
 
                (3)           the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable;
 
                (4)           the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue (which, in either case or both, if so provided in such Board Resolution, may be determined by the Company from time to time and set forth in the Securities of the series issued from time to time), the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable and the Regular Record Date for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date;
 
                (5)           the place or places where, subject to the provisions of Section 10.2, the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on Securities of the series shall be payable, any Securities of that series may be surrendered for exchange, and notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served;
 
                (6)           the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, the currency or currency unit in which, and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company;
 
 
 
                (7)           the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, the currency or currency unit in which, and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
 
                (8)           if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable;
 
                (9)           if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.2;
 
                (10)         any Events of Default and covenants of the Company with respect to the Securities of that series, whether or not such Events of Default or covenants are consistent with the Events of Defaults or covenants set forth herein;
 
                (11)         if other than Dollars, the currency or currency unit in which payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of that series shall be made or in which the Securities of that series shall be denominated and the particular provisions applicable thereto;
 
                (12)         if the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities of that series are to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in a currency or currency unit other than that in which such Securities are denominated or stated to be payable, the period or periods within which, and the terms and conditions upon which, such election may be made, and the time and manner of determining the exchange rate between the currency or currency unit in which such Securities are denominated or stated to be payable and the currency or currency unit in which such Securities are to be so payable;
 
                (13)         if the amount of payments of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of that series may be determined with reference to an index based on a currency or currency unit other than that in which such Securities are denominated or stated to be payable or any other index, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
 
                (14)         if the Securities of that series do not bear interest, the applicable dates for purposes of Section 7.1;
 
                (15)         if the provisions of Section 4.1 relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture shall apply to the Securities of that series; or if provisions for the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture other than as set forth in Section 4.1 shall apply to the Securities of that series;
 
                (16)         the application, if any, of Section 10.11 to the Securities of that series;
 
                (17)         whether the Securities of that series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and, in such case, the Depositary for such Global Security or Securities; and whether such Global Security or Securities shall be temporary or permanent; and
 
                (18)         any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture).
 
                All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination, rate of interest, Stated Maturity and the date from which interest, if any, shall accrue, and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to such Board Resolution relating thereto. The terms of such Securities, as set forth above, may be determined by the Company from time to time if so provided in or established pursuant to the authority granted in a
 
Board Resolution. All Securities of any one series need not be issued at the same time, and unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened for issuance of additional Securities of such series.
 
                If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
Section 3.2  Denominations.
                The Securities of each series shall be issuable in registered form without coupons in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 3.1. In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
Section 3.3  Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.
                The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President or one of its Vice Presidents and its Chief Financial Officer or Controller. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
 
                Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices on the date of such Securities.
 
                At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities; and the Trustee in accordance with such Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities as provided in this Indenture and not otherwise. If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Sections 2.1 and 3.1, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 6.1) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,
 
                (a)           if the form of such Securities has been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 2.1, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
 
                (b)           if the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 3.1, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
 
                (c)           that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
 
With respect to Securities of a series whose terms are to be established from time to time the Trustee shall be entitled to receive the Opinion of Counsel described in this Section in connection with the first authentication of Securities of that series. If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
                Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
 
                No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized officer, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
Section 3.4  Temporary Securities.
                Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities of such series which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
 
                If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of such series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for such series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of such series of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of such series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
Section 3.5  Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange.
                The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register (the register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as the Security Registrar may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. The Trustee is hereby initially appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
 
                Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for such series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series of the same tenor in any authorized denomination or denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount.
 
                At the option of the Holder, Securities may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series of the same tenor in any authorized denomination or denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
 
                All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
                Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer, or for exchange or redemption, shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
 
                No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any registration of transfer or exchange or redemption of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 3.4, 9.6 or 11.7 not involving any transfer.
 
                The Company shall not be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security if such Security may be among those selected for redemption during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the selection of the Securities to be redeemed under Section 11.3 or Section 12.3 and ending at the close of business on the day of the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption, or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of Securities being redeemed in part, or (c) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security which has been surrendered for repayment at the option of the Holder, except the portion, if any, of such Security not to be so repaid.
Section 3.6  Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.
                If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
 
                If (i) the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and (ii) there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company and the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its written request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
 
                In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion, may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay any such Security.
 
                Upon the issuance of any new Securities under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
 
                Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of such series duly issued hereunder.
 
                The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
Section 3.7  Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
                Interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name the Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, and at maturity, to the Persons to whom principal is payable.
 
                Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date ("Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (a) or (b) below:
 
                (a)           The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the
 
close of business and on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Subsection provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, the Trustee shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities of such series at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Person in whose names the Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (b).
 
                (b)           The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after written notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
                Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
Section 3.8  Persons Deemed Owners.
                Prior to and at the time of due presentment for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 3.7) interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Section 3.9  Cancellation.
                All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange shall be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly canceled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All canceled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of in accordance with its customary procedures and, if requested, certification of their disposition delivered to the Company, unless by a Company Order the Company directs that canceled securities be returned to it.
Section 3.10  Computation of Interest.
                Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
 
Section 3.11  Global Securities.
                If the Company shall establish pursuant to Section 3.1 that the Securities of a series are to be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, then the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with Section 3.3 and the Company Order with respect to such series, authenticate and deliver one or more Global Securities in temporary or permanent form that (i) shall represent and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such series to be represented by one or more Global Securities, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the depositary for such Global Security or Securities or the nominee of such depositary, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to such depositary or pursuant to such depositary's instruction, and (iv) shall bear a legend substantially to the following effect: "Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive form, this Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary". The Trustee shall deal with the Depositary and its participants as representatives of the Beneficial Owners of the Global Securities for purposes of exercising the rights of the Holders hereunder and the rights of the Beneficial Owners of the Global Securities shall be limited to those established by law and agreements between such Beneficial Owners and the Depositary and its participants. Beneficial Owners shall not be entitled to certificates for Global Securities as to which they are the Beneficial Owners. Requests and directions from, and votes of, such representatives shall not be deemed to be inconsistent if they are made with respect to different Beneficial Owners.
 
                Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section or Section 3.5, unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive form, a Global Security representing all or a portion of the Securities of a series may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary for such series to a nominee of such Depositary or by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or another nominee of such Depositary or by such Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary for such series or a nominee of such successor Depositary. The Beneficial Owner's ownership of Securities shall be recorded on the records of a participant of the Depositary that maintains such Beneficial Owner's account for such purpose and the participant's record ownership of such Securities shall be recorded on the records of the Depositary.
 
                If at any time the Depositary for the Securities of a series notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Securities of such series or if at any time the Depositary for Securities of a series shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the Exchange Act or other applicable statute or regulation, and the Company shall not have appointed a successor Depositary with respect to the Securities of such series, or if at any time there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series, the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities of such series, will authenticate and deliver, Securities of such series in definitive form in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security or Securities representing such series in exchange for such Global Security or Securities.
 
                The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that the Securities of any series issued in the form of one or more Global Securities shall no longer be represented by such Global Security or Securities. In such event, the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities of such series, will authenticate and deliver, Securities of such series in definitive form and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security or Securities representing such series in exchange for such Global Security or Securities.
 
                If specified by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1 with respect to Securities of a series, the Depositary for such series of Securities may surrender a Global Security for such series of Securities in exchange in whole or in part for Securities of such series in definitive form on such terms as are acceptable to the Company and such Depositary. Thereupon, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, without charge,
 
                (i)            to each Person specified by the Depositary a new Security or Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Person in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for such Person's beneficial interest in the Global Security; and
 
                (ii)           to the Depositary a new Global Security in a denomination equal to the difference, if any, between the principal amount of the surrendered Global Security and the aggregate principal amount of Securities delivered to Holders thereof.
 
                Upon the exchange of a Global Security for Securities in definitive form, such Global Security shall be canceled by the Trustee. Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security pursuant to this Section 3.11 shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary for such Global Security, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
 
Neither the Trustee nor any Agent shall have any responsibility for any actions taken or not taken by the Depositary.
 
Section 3.12  CUSIP Numbers.
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities,  and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers.  The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
 
ARTICLE IV SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE
Section 4.1  Satisfaction and Discharge of Securities of any Series.
                (a)           The Company shall be deemed to have satisfied and discharged the entire indebtedness on all the Securities of any particular series (i) that have become due and payable, or (ii) by their terms are to become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the Securities of such series, or (iii) with respect to which this Section 4.1 is specified to be applicable pursuant to Section 3.1, and, so long as no Event of Default shall be continuing, the Trustee for the Securities of such series, upon Company Request and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of such indebtedness, when:
 
                                (1)           either
 
                                (A)          all Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered and all coupons, if any, appertaining thereto (other than (i) any Securities and coupons of such series which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 3.6, (ii) coupons appertaining to Securities called for redemption and maturing after the relevant Redemption Date, whose surrender is not required as provided in Section 11.6 and (iii) Securities and coupons of such series for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in the last paragraph of Section 10.3) have been delivered to such Trustee for cancellation; or
 
                                (B)           with respect to all Outstanding Securities of such series described in (A) above (and, in the case of (i) or (ii) below, any coupons appertaining thereto) not theretofore so delivered to the Trustee for the Securities of such series for cancellation:
 
                                (i)            the Company has deposited or caused to be deposited with such Trustee as trust funds in trust an amount in the currency or currency unit in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.1 for the Securities of such series), sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all such Outstanding Securities of such series and any related coupons for unpaid principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, to the Stated Maturity or any Redemption Date as contemplated by Section 4.2, as the case may be; or
 
                                (ii)           the Company has deposited or caused to be deposited with such Trustee as obligations in trust such amount of Government Obligations as will, as evidenced by a Certificate of a Firm of Independent Public Accountants delivered to such Trustee, together with the predetermined and certain income to accrue thereon (without consideration of any reinvestment thereof), be sufficient to pay and discharge when due the entire indebtedness on all such Outstanding Securities of such series and any related coupons for unpaid principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, to the Stated Maturity or any Redemption Date as contemplated by Section 4.2, as the case may be; or
 
                                (iii)          the Company has deposited or caused to be deposited with such Trustee in trust an amount equal to the amount referred to in clause (i) or (ii) in any combination of currency or currency unit or Government Obligations;
 
                (2)           the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable with respect to the Securities of such series and any related coupons;
 
                (3)           the Company has delivered to such Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of the entire indebtedness on all Securities of such series and any related coupons have been complied with; and
 
                (4)           if the Securities of such series and any related coupons are not to become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year of the date of such deposit or are not to be called for redemption within one year of the date of such deposit under arrangements satisfactory to such Trustee as of the date of such deposit, then the Company shall have given, not later than the date of such deposit, an Opinion of Counsel based on the fact that (x) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (y), since the date hereof, there has been a change in the applicable United States federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit, defeasance and discharge and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit, defeasance and discharge had not occurred.
 
                (b)           Upon the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in this Section 4.1 with respect to all the Securities of all series, the terms and conditions of such series, including the terms and conditions with respect thereto set forth in this Indenture, shall no longer be binding upon, or applicable to, the Company, and the Holders of the Securities of such series and any related coupons shall look for payment only to the funds or obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.1(a)(1)(B); provided, however, that in no event shall the Company be discharged from (i) any payment obligations in respect of Securities of such series and any related coupons which are deemed not to be Outstanding under clause (c) of the definition thereof if such obligations continue to be valid obligations of the Company under applicable law, (ii) from any obligations under Sections 4.2(b), 6.7, 6.10 and 10.11 and (iii) from any obligations under Sections 3.5 and 3.6 (except that Securities of such series issued upon registration of transfer or exchange or in lieu of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities and any related coupons shall not be obligations of the Company) and Sections 7.1 and 10.2; and provided, further, that in the event a petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Act of 1978 or Title 11 of the United States Code or a successor statute is filed and not discharged with respect to the Company within 91 days after the deposit, the entire indebtedness on all
 
Securities of such series and any related coupons shall not be discharged, and in such event the Trustee shall return such deposited funds or obligations as it is then holding to the Company upon Company Request.
Section 4.2  Application of Trust Money.
                (a)           All money and obligations deposited with the Trustee for any series of Securities pursuant to Section 4.1 shall be held irrevocably in trust and shall be made under the terms of an escrow trust agreement in form satisfactory to such Trustee. Such money and obligations shall be applied by such Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities, any coupons, this Indenture and such escrow trust agreement, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as such Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities for the payment of which such money and obligations have been deposited with such Trustee. If Securities of any series are to be redeemed prior to their Stated Maturity, whether pursuant to any optional redemption provision or in accordance with any mandatory sinking fund requirement, the Company shall make such arrangements as are reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee for any series of Securities for the giving of notice of redemption by such Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company.
 
                (b)           The Company shall pay and shall indemnify the Trustee for any series of Securities against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 4.1 or the interest and principal received in respect of such Government Obligations other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is payable by or on behalf of Holders. The obligation of the Company under this Section 4.2(b) shall be deemed to be an obligation of the Company under Section 6.7(b).
 
                (c)           Anything in this Article IV to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee for any series of Securities shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 4.1 which, as expressed in a Certificate of a Firm of Independent Public Accountants delivered to such Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then have been required to be deposited for the purpose for which such money or Government Obligations were deposited or received provided such delivery can be made without liquidating any Government Obligations.
Section 4.3  Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
                Upon compliance by the Company with the provisions of Section 4.1 as to the satisfaction and discharge of each series of Securities issued hereunder, and if the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable under this Indenture, this Indenture shall cease to be of any further effect (except as otherwise provided herein). Upon Company Request and receipt of an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate complying with the provisions of Section 1.2, the Trustees for all series of Securities (at the expense of the Company) shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
 
                Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, any obligations of the Company under Sections 3.5, 3.6, 4.2(b), 6.7, 6.10, 7.1, 10.2 and 10.11 and the obligations of the Trustee for any series of Securities under Section 4.2 shall survive.
Section 4.4  Reinstatement.
                If the Trustee for any series of Securities is unable to apply any of the amounts (for purposes of this Section 4.4, "Amounts") or Government Obligations, as the case may be, described in Section 4.1(a)(1)(B)(i) or (ii), respectively, in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.1 by reason of any legal proceeding or any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities of such series and the coupons, if any, appertaining thereto shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 4.1 until such time as the Trustee for such series is permitted to apply all such Amounts or Government Obligations, as the case may be, in
 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.1; provided, however, that if, due to the reinstatement of its rights or obligations hereunder, the Company has made any payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on such Securities or coupons, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities or coupons to receive payment from such Amounts or Government Obligations, as the case may be, held by the Trustee for such series.
 
ARTICLE V REMEDIES
Section 5.1  Events of Default.
                Unless otherwise specified in Section 3.1 with respect to any series of Securities, "Event of Default", wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
 
                (a)           default in the payment of any interest on any Security of such series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
 
                (b)           default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of such series at its Maturity; or
 
                (c)           default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or agreement of the Company in this Indenture (other than a default in the performance, or a breach, of a covenant or warranty which is specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Section or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of series of Securities other than such series), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
 
                (d)           the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
 
                (e)           the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by the Company to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by the Company of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by the Company to the filing of such petition or the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by the Company in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action.
Section 5.2  Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
                If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then and in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series may, and the Trustee upon the request of the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, declare the principal amount (or, if the Securities of such series are Discounted Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all the Securities of such series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders) and, upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 5.1(d) or (e) occurs and is continuing, then the principal of all the Securities shall ipso facto become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
 
                At any time after such declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
 
                (a)           the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
 
                (1)           all overdue interest on all Securities of such series,
 
                (2)           the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of such series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities,
 
                (3)           to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and
 
                (4)           all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursement and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and
 
                (b)           all Events of Default with respect to Securities of such series, other than the non-payment of principal of Securities of such series which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 5.13.
 
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 5.3  Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
                The Company covenants that if:
 
                (a)           default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
 
                (b)           default is made in the payment of principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof,
 
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, with interest upon the overdue principal (and premium, if any) and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, upon overdue installments of interest, at the rate borne by the Securities; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
 
                If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid and may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities, wherever situated.
 
                If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement for any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
Section 5.4  Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
                In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor, upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
 
                (a)           to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (and premium, if any) and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims for the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
 
                (b)           to collect and receive any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.7.
 
                Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
Section 5.5  Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities.
                All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Section 5.6  Application of Money Collected.
                Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
 
                FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.7; and
 
                SECOND: Subject to Article XII, to the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid upon the Securities for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) and interest.
Section 5.7  Limitation on Suits.
                No Holder of any Securities of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
 
                (a)           such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series;
 
                (b)           the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount for the Outstanding Securities of such series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
 
                (c)           such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the cost, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
 
                (d)           the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
 
                (e)           no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series;
 
it being understood and intended that no one or more Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, distribute or prejudice the rights of any other Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all the Holders.
Section 5.8  Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest.
                Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right on the terms stated herein, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 3.7) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Section 5.9  Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
                If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall, subject to any determination in such proceeding, be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding has been instituted.
 
Section 5.10  Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
                Except as provided in Section 3.6, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Trustee and the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Section 5.11  Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
                No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
Section 5.12  Control by Holders.
                The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series, provided that
 
                (a)           such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture; and
 
                (b)           the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
Section 5.13  Waiver of Past Defaults.
                The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder and its consequences, except a default
 
                (a)           in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Security of such series, or
 
                (b)           in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article IX cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
 
                Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 5.14  Undertaking for Costs.
                All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of any undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of (or
 
premium, if any) or interest on any Security on or after the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date).
Section 5.15  Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
                The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
ARTICLE VI THE TRUSTEE
Section 6.1  Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
                (a)           With respect to Securities of any series, except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series,
 
                (1)           the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
 
                (2)           in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements for this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
 
                (b)           In case an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall with respect to Securities of such series exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
 
                (c)           No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that
 
                (1)           this Subsection (c) shall not be construed to limit the effect of Subsection (a) of this Section;
 
                (2)           the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
 
                (3)           the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to Securities of any series and with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series relating to the time, method and place of conducting and proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture; and
 
                (4)           no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
 
                (d)           Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
Section 6.2  Notice of Defaults.
                Within 90 days after the occurrence of any default hereunder with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Holders of Securities of such series, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such default hereunder known to the Trustee, unless such default shall have been cured or waived; provided, however, that, except in the case of a default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Security of such series or in the payment of any sinking fund installment with respect to Securities, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee, or a trust committee of the board of directors or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders; and provided, further, that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 5.1(d) no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default.
Section 6.3  Certain Rights of Trustee.
                Subject to the provisions of Section 6.1:
 
                (a)           the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
 
                (b)           any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
 
                (c)           whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel;
 
                (d)           the Trustee may consult with counsel and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
 
                (e)           the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
 
                (f)            the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence or indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the
 
books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation;
 
                (g)           the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
 
(h)           the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
(i)            in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action;
(j)            the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture;
(k)           the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder; and
                (l)            the Trustee may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture.
Section 6.4  Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.
                The recitals contained herein, and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company and the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. The Trustee or any Authenticating Agent shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
Section 6.5  May Hold Securities.
                The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities, and, subject to Sections 6.8 and 6.13, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
Section 6.6  Money Held in Trust.
                Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing by the Company.
Section 6.7  Compensation and Reimbursement.
                The Company agrees:
 
                (a)           to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing for all services rendered by it hereunder (which
 
compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
 
                (b)           except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith;
 
                (c)           to indemnify the Trustee or any predecessor Trustee and their agents for, and to hold them harmless against, any loss, damage, liability, claims or expense, including taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Trustee), incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, any Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, or in connection with enforcing the provisions of this Section;
 
                (d)           the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities as to all property and funds held by it hereunder for any amount owing it or any predecessor Trustee pursuant to this Section 6.7, except with respect to funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities;
 
                (e)           When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 5.1(d) or Section 5.1(e), the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law; and
 
                (f)            The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture.
 
The Trustee shall comply with the provisions of Section 313(b)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act, to the extent applicable.
Section 6.8  Qualification of Trustee; Conflicting Interests.
                The Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act during the period of time required thereby. Nothing herein shall prevent the Trustee from filing with the Commission the application referred to in the penultimate paragraph of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. In determining whether the Trustee has a conflicting interest as defined in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to the Securities of any series, there shall be excluded Securities of any particular series of Securities other than that series.
Section 6.9  Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
                There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be:
 
                (a)           a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof, or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority, or
 
                (b)           a corporation or other Person organized and doing business under the laws of a foreign government that is permitted to act as Trustee pursuant to a rule, regulation, or other order of the Commission, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, and subject to supervision or examination by authority of such foreign government or a political subdivision thereof substantially equivalent to supervision or examination applicable to a United States institutional trustee,
 
having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for
 
the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. No obligor upon the Securities or a Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such obligor shall serve as Trustee upon the Securities. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
Section 6.10  Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
                (a)           No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee under Section 6.11.
 
                (b)           The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may at the Company's expense petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
                (c)           The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by an Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.
 
                (d)           If at any time:
 
                (1)           the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act pursuant to Section 6.8 hereof after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months unless the Trustee's duty to resign is stayed in accordance with Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, or
 
                (2)           the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 6.9 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or
 
                (3)           the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
 
then, in any case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee, or (ii) subject to Section 5.14, the Holder of any Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
                (e)           If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of any one or more series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee with respect to the securities of such series and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 6.11. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 6.11, become the successor Trustee and supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders of such Securities and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 6.11, the Holder of any Security of such series who has been a bona fide Holder for at least six months may, subject to Section 5.14, on behalf of himself and all
 
others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
                (f)            The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders of Securities of such series as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
Section 6.11  Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
                (a)           In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee appointed hereunder shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee, and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.
 
                (b)           In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trust and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
 
                (c)           Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers, trusts and duties referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be.
 
                (d)           No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
Section 6.12  Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
                Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or
 
 
any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
Section 6.13  Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
                If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or any other obligor upon the Debt Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor).
Section 6.14  Appointment of Authenticating Agent.
                At any time when any of the Securities remain Outstanding the Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 3.6, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purpose of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
 
                Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
 
                An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall mail written notice of such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
 
                The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 6.7.
 
                If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form:
 
                This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
ARTICLE VII HOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS BY TRUSTEE AND COMPANY
Section 7.1  Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders.
                The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
 
                (a)           semi-annually, not later than June 30th and December 30th in each year, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders as of the preceding June 15th or December 15th, as the case may be; and
 
                (b)           at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
 
provided
, , that if and so long as the Trustee shall be the Security Registrar, no such list need be furnished.
however
Section 7.2  Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.
                (a)           The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 7.1 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar or Paying Agent (if so acting). The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 7.1 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
 
                (b)           If three or more Holders (hereinafter referred to as "applicants") apply in writing to the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee reasonable proof that each such applicant has owned a Security for a period of at least six months preceding the date of such application, and such application states the applicants' desire to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities and is accompanied by a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which such applicants propose to transmit, then the Trustee shall, within five Business Days after the receipt of such application, at its election, either
 
                (1)           afford such applicants access to the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 7.2(a), or
 
                (2)           inform such applicants as to the approximate number of Holders whose names and addresses appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with
 
Section 7.2(a), and as to the approximate cost of mailing to such Holders the form of proxy or other communication, if any, specified in such application.
 
                If the Trustee shall elect not to afford such applicants access to such information, the Trustee shall, upon the written request of such applicants, mail to each Holder whose name and address appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 7.2(a), a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which is specified in such requests, with reasonable promptness after a tender to the Trustee of the material to be mailed and of payment, or provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of mailing, unless within five days after such tender, the Trustee shall mail to such applicants and file with the Commission, together with a copy of the material to be mailed, a written statement to the effect that, in the opinion of the Trustee, such mailing would be contrary to the best interests of the Holders or would be in violation of applicable law. Such written statement shall specify the basis of such opinion. If the Commission, after opportunity for a hearing upon the objections specified in the written statement so filed, shall enter an order refusing to sustain any of such objections or if, after the entry of an order sustaining one or more of such objections, the Commission shall find, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that all the objections so sustained have been met and shall enter an order so declaring, the Trustee shall mail copies of such material to all such Holders with reasonable promptness after the entry of such order and the renewal of such tender, otherwise the Trustee shall be relieved of any obligation or duty to such applicants respecting their application.
 
                (c)           Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in accordance with Section 7.2(b), regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under Section 7.2(b).
Section 7.3  Reports by Trustee.
                (a)           The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto.  If required by Section 313 (a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall, within sixty days after each May 15 following the date of the initial issuance of Securities under this Indenture deliver to Holders a brief report, dated as of such May 15, which complies with the provisions of such Section 313(a).
 
                (b)           A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to the Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which the Securities are listed, with the Commission and also with the Company. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee when the Securities are listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
Section 7.4  Reports by Company.
                (a)           The Company and any other obligor upon the Securities shall deliver to the Trustee, upon request, within 15 days after the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of said Sections, then it shall file with the Trustee and, to the extent permitted by the Commission, the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations;
 
                (b)           The Company intends to file the reports referred to in paragraph (a) above in this Section 7.4 hereof with the Commission in electronic form pursuant to Regulation S-T of the Commission using the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval ("EDGAR") system.  Compliance with the foregoing shall constitute delivery by the Company of such reports to the Trustee in compliance with the provisions of Section 7.4(a) and Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.  The Trustee shall have no duty to search for or obtain any electronic or other filings that the Company makes with the Commission, regardless of whether such filings are periodic, supplemental or otherwise.  Delivery of the reports, information and documents to the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.4(b) shall be solely for the purposes of compliance with this Section 7.4(b) and with Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
                (c)           Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
 
ARTICLE VIII CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE
Section 8.1  Company May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms.
                The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, and the Company shall not permit any Person to consolidate with or merge into the Company or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to the Company, unless:
 
                (a)           in case the Company shall consolidate with or merge into another Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a Person organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interests on all the Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
 
                (b)           immediately after giving effect to such transaction and treating any indebtedness that becomes an obligation of the Company or a Subsidiary as a result of such transaction as having been incurred by the Company or such Subsidiary at the time of such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing;
 
                (c)           if, as a result of any such consolidation or merger or such conveyance, transfer or lease, any Principal Property of the Company would become subject to a mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other encumbrance that would not be permitted by this Indenture, the Company or such successor Person or Person, as the case may be, shall take such steps as shall be necessary effectively to secure the Securities equally and ratably with (or prior to) all indebtedness secured thereby; and
 
                (d)           the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
 
Section 8.2  Successor Person Substituted.
                Upon any consolidation by the Company, with or merger by the Company into any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 8.1, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Company herein; and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the Company shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Securities.
Section 8.3  Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel.
                The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Sections 6.1 and 6.2, may receive and conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance, and any such assumption, complies with the provisions of this Article VIII.
 
ARTICLE IX SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES
Section 9.1  Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders.
                Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
 
                (a)           to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities; or
 
                (b)           to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
 
                (c)           to add any additional Events of Default with respect to any or all series of Securities (and, if any such Event of Default applies to fewer than all series of Securities, stating each series to which such Event of Default applies); or
 
                (d)           to add or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in bearer form, registrable or not registrable as to principal, and with or without interest coupons; or
 
                (e)           to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture, provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision; or
 
                (f)            to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 2.1 and 3.1; or
 
                (g)           to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 6.11(b); or
 
                (h)           to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture which shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture; or
 
                (i)            to add to the conditions, limitations and restrictions on the authorized amount, form, terms or purposes of issue, authentication and delivery of Securities, as herein set forth, other conditions, limitations and restrictions thereafter to be observed; or
 
                (j)            to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Securities pursuant to Section 4.1 or 10.11, provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related coupons or any other series of Securities in any material respect; or
 
                (k)           to comply with the requirements of the Commission in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, as contemplated by Section 9.5 or otherwise; or
 
                (l)            to make any change that does not adversely affect the legal rights under this Indenture of any Holder of Securities of any series.
Section 9.2  Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders.
                With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby:
 
                (a)           change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or reduce the amount of the principal of a Discounted Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.2, or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or the interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date); or
 
                (b)           reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture; or
 
                (c)           modify any of the provisions of this Section or Sections 5.13 and 10.10, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Security affected thereby; provided, however, that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 10.10, or the deletion of this provision, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 6.11(b) and 9.1(8).
 
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
 
                Upon the request of the Company, each accompanied by a copy of a Board Resolution authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Holders as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such supplemental indenture.
 
                It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
Section 9.3  Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
                In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 6.1) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Section 9.4  Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
                Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
Section 9.5  Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.
                Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to the Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect and shall be deemed to include any provisions of the Trust Indenture Act necessary to effect such conformity.
Section 9.6  Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.
                Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
ARTICLE X COVENANTS
Section 10.1  Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
                The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Securities in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.
Section 10.2  Maintenance of Office or Agency.
                The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities, an office or agency where Securities of such series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of such series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such series and this Indenture may be served. The office of the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office or at the offices or agencies of its agent shall be such office or agency of the Company, unless the Company shall designate and maintain some other office or agency for one or more of such purposes. The Company
 
will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any change in the location of any such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
 
                The Company may from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes, and may from time to time rescind such designation; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and any change in the location of any such office or agency.
Section 10.3  Money for Security Payments to be Held in Trust.
                If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent, it will, on or not more than one Business Day before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any of the Securities, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided, and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
                If the Company is not acting as Paying Agent, the Company will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any), or interest on, any Securities, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum in same day funds sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of such action or any failure so to act.
 
                If the Company is not acting as Paying Agent, the Company will cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will:
 
                (a)           hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on Securities in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
 
                (b)           give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities) in the making of any payment of principal (and premium, if any) or interest;
 
                (c)           at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent; and
 
                (d)           acknowledge, accept and agree to comply in all aspects with the provisions of this Indenture relating to the duties, rights and disabilities of such Paying Agent.
 
                The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
 
                Unless otherwise required by applicable law, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Security and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal (and premium, if any) or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such
 
trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or mail to each such Holder or both notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification, publication or mailing, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
Section 10.4  Corporate Existence.
                Subject to Article VIII, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect the corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises of the Company and each Subsidiary; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries as a whole and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders; and provided, further, however, that the foregoing shall not prohibit a sale, transfer or conveyance of a Subsidiary or any of their respective assets in compliance with the terms of this Indenture.
Section 10.5  Maintenance of Properties.
                The Company shall cause all properties owned by the Company or any Subsidiary or used or held for use in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all times; provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Company from discontinuing the maintenance of any of such properties if such discontinuance is, in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary and not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
Section 10.6  Payment of Taxes and Other Claims.
                The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary, and (ii) all material lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
Section 10.7  Limitations on Liens.
                (a)           The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, hereafter, create, assume or suffer to exist any mortgage, security interest, pledge or lien (herein referred to as a "Lien") of or upon any Principal Property, or any shares of capital stock or evidences of indebtedness for borrowed money issued by any Restricted Subsidiary and owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, whether owned at the date of this Indenture or thereafter acquired, without making effective provision, and the Company in such case will make or cause to be made effective provision, whereby the Securities shall be secured by such Lien equally and ratably with any and all other indebtedness or obligations thereby secured, so long as such indebtedness or obligations shall be so secured; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not apply to any of the following:
 
                (1)           Liens that exist on the date of this Indenture;
 
                (2)           Liens on property of any corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary;
 
                (3)           Liens in favor of the Company or any Subsidiary;
 
                (4)           Liens in favor of governmental bodies to secure progress, advance or other payments pursuant to contract or statute or indebtedness incurred to finance all or a part of construction of or improvements to property subject to such Liens;
 
                (5)           Liens on property existing at the time of acquisition thereof (including acquisition through merger or consolidation), and construction and improvement Liens that are entered into within 180 days from the date of such construction or improvement, provided that in the case of construction or improvement the Lien shall not apply to any property theretofore owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary except substantially unimproved real property on which the property so constructed or the improvement is located;
 
                (6)           mechanics' and similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business in respect of obligations not due or being contested in good faith;
 
                (7)           Liens for taxes, assessments, or governmental charges or levies that are not delinquent or are being contested in good faith;
 
                (8)           Liens arising from any legal proceedings that are being contested in good faith;
 
                (9)           any Liens that (i) are incidental to the ordinary conduct of its business or the ownership of its properties and assets, (ii) were not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money or the obtaining of advances or credit and (iii) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of the property of the Company or any Subsidiary or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of its business;
 
                (10)         Liens securing industrial development or pollution control bonds; and
 
                (11)         Liens for the sole purpose of extending, renewing or replacing (or successively extending, renewing or replacing) in whole or in part any of the foregoing.
 
                (b)           Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(5) of this Section 10.7, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may, without equally and ratably securing the Securities, create or assume Liens which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions if at the time of such creation or assumption, and after giving effect thereto, Exempted Indebtedness does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Section 10.8  Limitations on Sale and Leaseback.
                (a)           The Company will not, nor will it permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing (as lessee) by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Principal Property (except for temporary leases for a term, including any renewal thereof, of not more than three years and except for leases between the Company and a Restricted Subsidiary or between Restricted Subsidiaries) which property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary to such Person (herein referred to as a "Sale and Leaseback Transaction") unless either (i) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled to incur a Lien on such property without equally and ratably securing the Securities pursuant to clauses (5) and (11) of paragraph (a) of Section 10.7 or (ii) the net proceeds of such sale are at least equal to the fair value (as determined by the Board of Directors) of such property and the Company shall apply an amount equal to the net proceeds of such sale to the retirement (other than any mandatory retirement or payment at maturity) of (x) securities (other than any retirement prohibited by the terms of any Securities pursuant to prohibitions on advance refundings) or (y) Funded Debt of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary ranking prior to or on a parity with the Securities, within 120 days of the effective date of any such arrangement.
 
 
                (b)           Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 10.8, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may enter into Sale and Leaseback Transactions, if at the time of such entering into, and after giving effect thereto, Exempted Indebtedness does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Section 10.9  Statement by Officers as to Default.
                The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of Sections 10.1 to 10.8, inclusive, and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
Section 10.10  Waiver of Certain Covenants.
                The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition set forth in Sections 10.1 through 10.8 if, before or after the time for such compliance, the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding shall, by Act of such Holders, waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or effect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 10.11  Defeasance of Certain Obligations.
                If specified pursuant to Section 3.1 to be applicable to the Securities of any series, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, provision, condition or limitation set forth in Section 8.1, Section 10.7 and Section 10.8 (and, if specified pursuant to Section 3.1, the Company's obligations under any other covenant), whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or such other covenant or by reason of reference in any Section or such other covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document, and any such omission to comply shall not constitute a default or an Event of Default under Section 5.1(c); provided, however, that the following conditions have been satisfied:
 
                (a)           with respect to all Outstanding Securities of such series and any coupons appertaining thereto not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, the Company shall have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee for such series as trust funds or obligations in trust an amount of
 
                (1) cash in the currency or currency unit in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.1 for the Securities of such series);
 
                (2) Government Obligations; or
 
                (3) a combination of such cash and Government Obligations,
 
in each case in an amount which, together with, as evidenced by a Certificate of a Firm of Independent Public Accountants delivered to such Trustee, the predetermined and certain income to accrue on any Government Obligations when due (without the consideration of any reinvestment thereof) is sufficient to pay and discharge when due the entire indebtedness on all such Outstanding Securities of such series and any related coupons for unpaid principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, to the Stated Maturity or any Redemption Date, as the case may be;
 
                (b)           such deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound;
 
                (c)           no Event of Default or event which with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that Series shall have occurred and be
 
continuing on the date of such deposit and no Event of Default under Section 5.1(d) or Section 5.1(e) or event of which with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default under Section 5.1(d) or Section 5.1(e) shall have occurred and be continuing on the 91st day after such date;
 
                (d)           the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the defeasance contemplated in the Section have been complied with;
 
                (e)           if the Securities of such series and any related coupons are not to become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year of the date of such deposit or are not to be called for redemption within one year of the date of such deposit under arrangements satisfactory to such Trustee as of the date of such deposit, then the Company shall have given, not later than the date of such deposit, an Opinion of Counsel confirming that the Holders of the Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit and defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit and defeasance had not occurred; and
 
                (f)            the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel (which may be subject to the customary exceptions) to the effect that after the 91 day following deposit, the trust funds will not be subject to the effect of any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally.
st
 
                All obligations of the Company under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series, other than with respect to Section 8.1, Section 10.7 and Section 10.8 (and, if specified pursuant to Section 3.1, the Company's obligations under any other covenant), shall remain in full force and effect. Anything in this Section 10.11 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee for any series of Securities shall deliver or pay to the Company, from time to time upon Company Request, any money or Government Obligations held by it as provided in this Section 10.11 which, as expressed in a Certificate of a Firm of Independent Public Accountants delivered to such Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then have been required to be deposited for the purpose of which such money or Government obligations were deposited or received, provided such delivery can be made without liquidating any Government Obligations.
 
ARTICLE XI REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES
Section 11.1  Applicability of Article.
                Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Section 11.2  Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.
                The election of the Company to redeem any Securities pursuant to Section 11.1 shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution and an Officers' Certificate. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee in writing of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed.
Section 11.3  Selection by Trustee of Securities to be Redeemed.
                If less than all the Securities are to be redeemed, the particular Securities or portions thereof to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding
 
Securities not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem to be fair and appropriate, and the amounts to be redeemed shall be equal to $1,000 or any integral multiple thereof.
 
                The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company and each Security Registrar in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
 
                For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security which has been or is to be redeemed.
Section 11.4  Notice of Redemption.
                Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register.
 
                All notices of redemption shall state:
 
                (a)           the Redemption Date;
 
                (b)           the Redemption Price;
 
                (c)           if less than all Outstanding Securities are to be redeemed, the identification of the particular Securities to be redeemed;
 
                (d)           in the case of a Security to be redeemed in part, the principal amount of such Security to be redeemed and that after the Redemption Date upon surrender of such Security, a new Security or Securities in the aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued;
 
                (e)           that Securities called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price;
 
                (f)            that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security or portion thereof, and that (unless the Company shall default in payment of the Redemption Price) interest thereon shall cease to accrue on and after said date;
 
                (g)           the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price; and
 
                (h)           the CUSIP Number of the Securities.
 
                Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request delivered to the Trustee at least 5 Business Days before such notice is to be given to the Holders (unless a shorter period shall be acceptable to the Trustee), by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company.
 
                The notice if mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice. In any case, failure to give such notice by mail or any defect in the notice to the Holder of any Security designated for redemption as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Security.
Section 11.5  Deposit of Redemption Price.
                On or prior to any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 10.3) an
 
amount of money in same day funds sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the Securities or portions thereof which are to be redeemed on that date.
Section 11.6  Securities Payable on Redemption Date.
                Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; provided, however, that installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such on the relevant Regular Record Dates according to the terms and the provisions of Section 3.7.
 
                If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate borne by such Security.
Section 11.7  Securities Redeemed in Part.
                Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose pursuant to Section 10.2 (with, if the Company, the Security Registrar or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, the Security Registrar or the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge to the Holder, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered; provided, however, that the Depositary need not surrender Global Securities for a partial redemption and may be authorized to make a notation on such Global Security of such partial redemption. In the case of a partial redemption of the Global Securities, the Depositary, and in turn, the participants in the Depositary, shall have the responsibility to select any Securities to be redeemed by random lot.
ARTICLE XII SINKING FUNDS
Section 12.1  Applicability of Article.
                The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1 for Securities of such series.
 
                The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 12.2. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
Section 12.2  Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.
                The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund
payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series, provided that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
Section 12.3  Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.
                Not less than 75 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 12.2 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. The Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 11.3 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 11.4. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 11.6 and 11.7.
 
                This Indenture may be signed in any number of counterparts with the same effect as if the signatures to each counterpart were upon a single instrument, and all such counterparts together shall be deemed an original of this Indenture.
 
                IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
CUSIP NO. 579780AF4
 
REGISTERED
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT U.S.$250,000,000
No. 1
 
 
                If the registered owner of this Security (as indicated below) is The Depository Trust Company (the "Depository") or a nominee of the Depository, this Security is a Global Security and the following two legends apply:
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
UNLESS AND UNTIL THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN CERTIFICATED FORM, THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE THEREOF OR BY A NOMINEE THEREOF TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY THE DEPOSITORY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR OF THE DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR.
 
IF APPLICABLE, THE "TOTAL AMOUNT OF OID", "YIELD TO MATURITY" AND "INITIAL ACCRUAL PERIOD OID" (COMPUTED UNDER THE APPROXIMATE METHOD) BELOW WILL BE COMPLETED SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSES OF APPLYING THE FEDERAL INCOME TAX ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT ("OID") RULES.
 
 
                McCORMICK & COMPANY, INCORPORATED, a Maryland corporation (herein referred to as the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $250,000,000 on the Stated Maturity Date shown above (except to the extent redeemed or repaid prior to the Stated Maturity Date) and to pay interest, if any, thereon at the Interest Rate shown above from the Original Issue Date shown above or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest, if any, has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually on June 15 and December 15 of each year (unless other Interest Payment Dates are shown on the face hereof) (each, an "Interest Payment Date") until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment and on the Stated Maturity Date, any Redemption Date or Repayment Date (such terms are together hereinafter referred to as the "Maturity Date" with respect to the principal repayable on such date); provided, however, that any payment of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, to be made on any Interest Payment Date or on the Maturity Date that is not a Business Day (as defined below) shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be, and no additional interest, if any, shall accrue on the amount so payable as a result of such delayed payment. For purposes of this Security, unless otherwise specified on the face
 
hereof, "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York; provided, however, that, if the Specified Currency shown above is a foreign currency, such day is also not a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in the Principal Financial Center (as defined below) of the country issuing the Specified Currency (or, if the Specified Currency is the euro, such day is also a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open). "Principal Financial Center" means the capital city of the country issuing the Specified Currency except that with respect to United States dollars, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Deutsche marks, Dutch guilders, South African rand and Swiss francs, the "Principal Financial Center" shall be The City of New York, Sydney and (solely in the case of the Specified Currency) Melbourne, Toronto, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, Johannesburg and Zurich, respectively.
 
                Any interest hereon will accrue from, and including, the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date in respect of which interest, if any, has been paid or duly provided for (or from, and including, the Original Issue Date if no interest has been paid or duly provided for) to, but excluding, the succeeding Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be. The interest, if any, so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture and subject to certain exceptions described herein (referred to on the reverse hereof), be paid to the person (the "Holder") in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the June 1 or December 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date (unless other Regular Record Dates are specified on the face hereof) (each, a "Regular Record Date"); provided, however, that, if this Security was issued between a Regular Record Date and the initial Interest Payment Date relating to such Regular Record Date, interest, if any, for the period beginning on the Original Issue Date and ending on such initial Interest Payment Date shall be paid on the Interest Payment Date following the next succeeding Regular Record Date to the Holder hereof on such next succeeding Regular Record Date; and provided further that interest, if any, payable on the Maturity Date will be payable to the person to whom the principal hereof shall be payable. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date other than the Maturity Date ("Defaulted Interest") will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date (the "Special Record Date") for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee (referred to on the reverse hereof), notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Security not less than ten days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
 
                Unless otherwise specified above, all payments in respect of this Security will be made in U.S. dollars regardless of the Specified Currency shown above unless the Holder hereof makes the election described below. If the Specified Currency shown above is other than U.S. dollars, the Exchange Rate Agent (referred to on the reverse hereof) will arrange to convert any such amounts so payable in respect hereof into U.S. dollars in the manner described on the reverse hereof; provided, however, that the Holder hereof may, if so indicated above, elect to receive all or any specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest, if any, in respect of this Security in such Specified Currency by delivery of a written request to the corporate trust office of the Trustee in The City of New York, currently the office of the Trustee located at The Bank of New York, 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8W, New York, New York 10286, or at such other office in The City of New York, as the Company may determine, on or prior to the applicable Regular Record Date or at least fifteen days prior to the Maturity Date, as the case may be. Such request may be in writing (mailed or hand delivered) or by cable, telex or other form of facsimile transmission. The Holder hereof may elect to receive payment in such Specified Currency for all principal, premium, if any, and interest payments, if any, and need not file a separate election for each payment. Such election will remain in effect until revoked by written notice to the Trustee, but written notice of any such revocation must be received by the Trustee on or prior to the applicable Regular Record Date or at least fifteen days prior to the Maturity Date, as the case may be.
 
                Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company determines that the Specified Currency is not available for making payments in respect hereof due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the Company's control, or is no longer used by the government of the country issuing such currency or for the settlement of transactions by public institutions of or within the international banking community, then the Holder hereof may not so elect to receive payments in the Specified Currency and any such outstanding election shall be automatically suspended, until the Company determines that the Specified Currency is again available for making such payments. Any payment made under such circumstances in U.S. dollars where the required payment is in a Specified Currency will not constitute a default under the Indenture.
 
                In the event of an official redenomination of the Specified Currency, the obligations of the Company with respect to payments on this Security, in all cases, shall be deemed immediately following such redenomination to provide for payment of that amount of redenominated currency representing the amount of such obligations immediately before such redenomination. In no event shall any adjustment be made to any amount payable hereunder as a result of any change in the value of the Specified Currency shown above relative to any other currency due solely to fluctuations in exchange rates.
 
                Until this Security is paid in full or payment therefor in full is duly provided for, the Company will at all times maintain a Paying Agent (which Paying Agent may be the Trustee) in The City of New York, currently the office of the Trustee located at The Bank of New York, 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8W, New York, New York 10286, or at such other office in The City of New York, as the Company may determine (which, unless otherwise specified above, shall be the "Place of Payment"). The Company has initially appointed The Bank of New York, at its office in The City of New York, currently the office of the Trustee located at The Bank of New York, 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8W, New York, New York 10286, or at such other office in The City of New York, as the Company may determine as Paying Agent.
 
                Unless otherwise shown above, payment of interest on this Security (other than on the Maturity Date) will be made by check mailed to the registered address of the Holder hereof as of the Regular Record Date; provided, however, that, if (i) the Specified Currency is U.S. dollars and this is a Global Security (as defined on the reverse hereof) or (ii) the Specified Currency is a Foreign Currency, and the Holder has elected to receive payments in such Specified Currency as provided for above, such interest payments will be made by transfer of immediately available funds, but only if appropriate wire transfer instructions have been received in writing by the Trustee on or prior to the applicable Regular Record Date. Simultaneously with any election by the Holder hereof to receive payments in respect hereof in the Specified Currency (if other than U.S. dollars), such Holder may provide appropriate wire transfer instructions to the Trustee, and all such payments will be made in immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with a bank, but only if such bank has appropriate facilities therefor. Unless otherwise specified above, the principal hereof (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, hereon payable on the Maturity Date will be paid in immediately available funds upon surrender of this Security at the office of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in The City of New York, currently the office of the Trustee located at The Bank of New York, 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8W, New York, New York 10286, or at such other office in The City of New York, as the Company may determine. The Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in making payments in immediately available funds but, except as otherwise provided under Additional Amounts above, any tax, assessment or governmental charge imposed upon payments will be borne by the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such payments are made.
 
                Interest on this Security, if any, will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
 
                REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS SECURITY SET FORTH ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.
 
                Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
                IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its facsimile corporate seal.
 
 
 
 
Dated:  December 7, 2007
                Section 1.General.  This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities (herein called the "Securities") of the Company, issued and to be issued in one or more series under that certain Indenture, dated as of December 7, 2007, as it may be supplemented from time to time (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to a series of which this Security is a part), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto, reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
 
                Section 2.Payments.  If the Specified Currency is other than U.S. dollars and the Holder hereof fails to elect payment in such Specified Currency in accordance with the procedures set forth on the face hereof, the amount of U.S. dollar payments to be made in respect hereof will be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent specified on the face hereof or a successor thereto (the "Exchange Rate Agent") based on the highest bid quotation in The City of New York at approximately 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the second Business Day preceding the applicable payment date received by the Exchange Rate Agent from three recognized foreign exchange dealers (one of whom may be the Exchange Rate Agent) selected by the Exchange Rate Agent and approved by the Company for the purchase by the quoting dealer of the Specified Currency for U.S. dollars for settlement on such payment date in the aggregate amount of the Specified Currency payable to all holders of Securities scheduled to receive U.S. dollar payments and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a contract. If three such bid quotations are not available, payments will be made in the Specified Currency.
 
 
                If the Specified Currency is other than U.S. dollars and the Holder hereof has elected payment in such Specified Currency in accordance with the procedures set forth on the face hereof and the Specified Currency is not available due to the imposition of exchange controls or to other circumstances beyond the Company's control, the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to the Holder of this Security by making such payment in U.S. dollars on the basis of the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers of such Specified Currency as certified for customs purposes (or, if not so certified, as otherwise determined) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the "Market Exchange Rate") as computed by the Exchange Rate Agent on the second Business Day prior to the applicable payment date or, if the Market Exchange Rate is then not available, on the basis of the most recently available Market Exchange Rate or as otherwise indicated above. Any payment made under such circumstances in U.S. dollars where the required payment is in a Specified Currency will not constitute a default under the Indenture.
 
                All determinations referred to above made by the Exchange Rate Agent shall be at its sole discretion (except to the extent expressly provided that any determination is subject to approval by the Company) and, in the absence of manifest error, shall be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holder of this Security, and the Exchange Rate Agent shall have no liability therefor.
 
                All currency exchange costs will be borne by the Company.
 
                References herein to "U.S. dollars" or "U.S. $" or "$" are to the currency of the United States of America.
                Section 3.Redemption.  If so specified on the face hereof, the Company may at its option redeem this Security in whole or from time to time in part in increments of $1,000 (provided that any remaining principal amount of this Security shall not be less than the Minimum Denomination specified on the face hereof) at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount hereof and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 30 basis points, plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redepmtion Date.  The Company may exercise such option by causing the Trustee to mail a notice of such redemption at least 30 but not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date.  In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities for the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.  If less than all of the Securities with like tenor and terms to this Security are to be redeemed, the Securities to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.  However, if less than all the Securities of the series with differing tenor and terms to this Security are to be redeemed, then the Company in its sole discretion shall select the particular Securities to be redeemed and shall notify the Trustee in writing thereof at least 45 days prior to the relevant Redemption Date.
 
 
                For purposes of the foregoing:
 
                Treasury Rate'' means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (a) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System designated as Statistical Release H.15(519)'' or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption Treasury Constant Maturities,'' for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the maturity date, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month), or (b) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per year equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third business day preceding the Redemption Date.
 
                Comparable Treasury Issue'' means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of such notes.
 
                Independent Investment Banker'' means Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC or Banc of America Securities LLC or either of their respective successors, or if both such firms are unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation with us.
 
                Comparable Treasury Price'' means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
 
                Reference Treasury Dealer'' means (1) Banc of America Securities LLC or its affiliates which are primary U.S. Government securities dealers in The City of New York (a Primary Treasury Dealer''), and its successors, and (2) three other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by us; , that if any of the foregoing or their affiliates shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, we shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
provided, however
 
                Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations'' means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York time, on the third business day preceding such Redemption Date.
                Section 4.Repayment.  If so specified on the face hereof, this Security shall be repayable prior to the Stated Maturity Date at the option of the Holder on each applicable Optional Repayment Date shown on the face hereof at a repayment price equal to 100% of the principal amount to be repaid, together with accrued interest, if any, to the Repayment Date. In order for this Security to be repaid, the Trustee must receive at least 30 but not more than 45 days prior to an Optional Repayment Date, this Security with the form attached hereto entitled "Option to Elect Repayment" duly completed. Any tender of this Security for repayment shall be irrevocable. The repayment option may be exercised by the Holder of this Security in whole or in part in increments of $1,000 (provided that any remaining principal amount of this Security shall not be less than the Minimum Denomination specified on the face hereof). Upon any partial repayment, this Security shall be canceled and a new Security or Securities for the remaining principal amount hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder of this Security.
 
 
                Section 5.  Change of Control Redemption.  If a Change of Control Triggering Event, as defined below, occurs, each Holder of this Security will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of this Security pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer") on the terms set forth herein.  In the Change of Control Offer, the Company will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of this Security repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Security repurchased, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment").  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company will send notice of such Change of Control Offer (the "Change of Control Offer Notice") by first-class mail, with a copy to the Trustee, to each Holder of this Security to the address of such Holder appearing in the security register or otherwise in accordance with the procedures of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary") with a
 
copy to the Trustee, with the following information: (a) that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and that each Security properly tendered pursuant to such Change of Control Offer will be accepted for payment by the Company; (b) the date of the Change of Control Triggering Event; (c) the date, which will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days after the date the Change of Control Offer Notice is mailed, by which the Company must purchase the Security (the "Change of Control Payment Date"); (d) the price that the Company must pay for the Security the Company is obligated to purchase; (e) the name and address of the Trustee; (f) that any Security not properly tendered will remain outstanding and continue to accrue interest; (g) that unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, each Security accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer will cease to accrue interest on the Change of Control Payment Date; (h) the procedures for surrendering the Security for payment; and (i) the procedures by which a Holder may withdraw such a tender after it is given.
 
                The Company must comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the purchase of this Security as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event.  To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions of this Security, the Company will be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions of this Security by virtue of such conflicts.
 
                On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will be required, to the extent lawful, to: (a) accept for payment all or a part of this Security properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (b) deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all or the part of this Security properly tendered; and (c) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee each Security properly accepted.
 
                For purposes of the foregoing:
 
                "Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means this Security is rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies (as defined below) on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of this Security is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies).
 
                "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any person (as such term is used in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person (as such term is used in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Company's voting stock; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors.
 
                "Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
 
                "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of this Security; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who the were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
 
                "Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
 
                "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
 
                "Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate this Security or fails to make a rating of this Security publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
 
                "S&P" means Standard and Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
                Section 6.Discount Securities.  If this Security (such a Security being referred to as a "Discount Security") (a) has been issued at an Original Issue Price lower, by more than a de minimis amount (as determined under United States federal income tax rules applicable to original issue discount instruments), than the stated redemption price at maturity (as defined below) hereof and (b) would be considered an original issue discount security for United States federal income tax purposes, then the amount payable on this Security in the event of redemption by the Company, repayment at the option of the Holder or acceleration of the maturity hereof, in lieu of the principal amount due at the Stated Maturity Date hereof, shall be the Amortized Face Amount (as defined below) of this Security as of the date of such redemption, repayment or acceleration. The "Amortized Face Amount" of this Security shall be the amount equal to the sum of (a) the Issue Price (as set forth on the face hereof) plus (b) the aggregate of the portions of the original issue discount (the excess of the amounts considered as part of the "stated redemption price at maturity" of this Security within the meaning of Section 1273(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), whether denominated as principal or interest, over the Issue Price of this Security) which shall theretofore have accrued pursuant to Section 1272 of the Code (without regard to Section 1272(a)(7) of the Code) from the date of issue of this Security to the date of determination, minus (c) any amount considered as part of the "stated redemption price at maturity" of this Security which has been paid on this Security from the date of issue to the date of determination.
 
                Section 7.Modification and Waivers; Obligation of the Company Absolute.  The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series. Such amendment may be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture. Provisions in the Indenture also permit the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of any series to waive on behalf of all of the Holders of Securities of such series certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Security and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
 
                The Securities are unsecured and rank pari passu with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company.
 
                No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the Specified Currency herein prescribed, except as set forth in Section 2 hereof.
                Section 8.Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance.  The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security, unless otherwise specified on the face hereof.
 
                Section 9.Minimum Denomination; Authorized Denominations.  Unless otherwise provided on the face hereof, this Security is issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000. If this Security is denominated in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars or is a Discount Security, this Security shall be issuable in the denominations set forth on the face hereof.
 
                Section 10.Registration of Transfer.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at a Place of Payment for the series of Securities of which this Security forms a part, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series, of like authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
 
                If the registered owner of this Security is the Depository (such a Security being referred to as a "Global Security"), and (i) the Depository is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as depository and a successor depository is not appointed by the Company within 90 days following notice to the Company or (ii) an Event of Default occurs, the Company will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange for this Global Security. In addition, the Company may at any time, and in its sole discretion,
 
determine not to have Securities represented by a Global Security and, in such event, will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange in whole for this Global Security. In any exchange pursuant to this paragraph, the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of individual Securities of this series in exchange for this Global Security, will authenticate and deliver individual Securities of this series in certificated form in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Global Security in exchange herefor. Securities issued in exchange for this Global Security pursuant to this paragraph shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depository, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests in this Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests. For purposes of the Indenture, this Global Security constitutes a Security issued in permanent global form. Securities so issued in certificated form will be issued in denominations of $2,000 (or such other denomination as shall be specified on the face hereof) or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000 and will be issued in registered form only, without coupons.
 
                As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein and herein set forth, this Security is exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series of different authorized denominations but otherwise having the same terms and conditions, as requested by the Holder hereof surrendering the same.
 
                No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
                Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Holder as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
                Section 11.Events of Default.  If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of the series of which this Security forms a part shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of this Security may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
                Section 12.Defined Terms.  All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
                Section 13.Governing Law.  Unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, this Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
 
 
 
 
                The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
 
 
Dated
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
Board of Directors McCormick & Company, Incorporated 18 Loveton Circle Sparks, Maryland  21152
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We are acting as counsel to McCormick & Company, Incorporated, a Maryland corporation (the ""), in connection with its automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR (No. 333-147809) (the ""), relating to the public offering of debt securities of the Company that may be offered and sold by the Company from time to time as set forth in the prospectus dated December 4, 2007 (the ""), and as may be set forth from time to time in one or more supplements to the Prospectus.  This opinion letter is rendered in connection with the issuance and sale of $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Notes due 2017 (the ""), as described in a prospectus supplement dated December 4, 2007 (the "").  This opinion letter is furnished to you at your request to enable you to fulfill the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K, 17 C.F.R. 229.601(b)(5), in connection with the Registration Statement.
Company
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Notes
Prospectus Supplement
 
For purposes of this opinion letter, we have examined copies of the documents listed on Schedule 1 attached hereto.  In our examination of the aforesaid documents, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of all natural persons, the accuracy and completeness of all documents submitted to us, the authenticity of all original documents, and the conformity to authentic original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies (including telecopies).  This opinion letter is given, and all statements herein are made, in the context of the foregoing.
 
This opinion letter is based as to matters of law solely on (i) the Maryland General Corporation Law, as amended, and (ii) the laws of the State of New York.  We express no opinion herein as to any other laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations.  As used herein, the term "Maryland General Corporation Law, as amended" includes the statutory provisions contained therein, all applicable provisions of the Maryland Constitution and reported judicial decisions interpreting these laws.
 
For the purposes of this opinion letter, we have assumed that (i) the Trustee has all requisite power and authority under all applicable laws, regulations and governing documents to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Indenture and has complied with all legal requirements pertaining to its status as such status relates to the Trustee's right to enforce
 
 
the Indenture against the Company, (ii) the Trustee has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Indenture, (iii) the Trustee is validly existing and in good standing in all necessary jurisdictions, (iv) the Indenture constitutes a valid and binding obligation, enforceable against the Trustee in accordance with its terms, (v) there has been no mutual mistake of fact or misunderstanding or fraud, duress or undue influence in connection with the negotiation, execution or delivery of the Indenture, and the conduct of the Trustee has complied with any requirements of good faith, fair dealing and conscionability, and (vi) there are and have been no agreements or understandings among the parties, written or oral, and there is and has been no usage of trade or course of prior dealing among the parties that would, in either case, define, supplement or qualify the terms of the Indenture.  We also have assumed the validity and constitutionality of each relevant statute, rule, regulation and agency action covered by this opinion letter.
 
Based upon, subject to and limited by the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the Notes have been duly authorized on behalf of the Company and that, following (i) receipt by the Company of the consideration specified in the Resolutions and (ii) the due execution, authentication, issuance and delivery of the Notes pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Notes will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company.
 
This opinion letter has been prepared for your use in connection with the filing by the Company of a Current Report on Form 8-K on the date hereof, which Form 8-K will be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and speaks as of the date hereof.  We assume no obligation to advise you of any changes in the foregoing subsequent to the delivery of this opinion letter.
 
In addition to the qualifications, exceptions and limitations elsewhere set forth in this opinion letter, our opinions expressed above are also subject to the effect of:  (a) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors' rights (including, without limitation, the effect of statutory and other law regarding fraudulent conveyances, fraudulent transfers and preferential transfers), and (b) the exercise of judicial discretion and the application of principles of equity, good faith, fair dealing, reasonableness, conscionability and materiality (regardless of whether the applicable agreements are considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter as Exhibit 5.1 to the above-described Form 8-K and to the reference to this firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement, each of which constitutes a part of the Registration Statement.  In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are an "expert" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
1.
                                      
An executed copy of the Registration Statement.
 
2.
                                      
The Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement.
 
3.
                                      
Executed copy of the Indenture, dated as of December 7, 2007, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the Officers' Certificate (as defined below) (together, the "").
Trustee
Indenture
 
4.
                                      
The Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the Notes (the "").
Officers' Certificate
 
5.
                                      
Specimen copy of the Notes.
 
6.
                                      
The Articles of Restatement of the Company, with amendments thereto (the ""), as certified by the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of the State of Maryland (the "") on December 3, 2007 and as certified by the Secretary of the Company on the date hereof as being complete, accurate and in effect.
Charter
MSDAT
 
7.
                                      
The by-laws of the Company, as certified by the Secretary of the Company on the date hereof as being complete, accurate and in effect (the "").
Bylaws
 
8.
                                      
Certain resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company adopted November 27, 2007, as certified by the Secretary of the Company on the date hereof, relating to, among other things, the authorization and issuance of the Notes and authorization of the Indenture, as well as arrangements in connection therewith (collectively, the "").
Resolutions

 
Exhibit 8.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors McCormick & Company, Incorporated 18 Loveton Circle Sparks, Maryland  21152
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
                                We are acting as counsel to McCormick & Company, Incorporated, a Maryland corporation (the ""), in connection with its registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-147809) (the ""), relating to the public offering of debt securities of the Company that may be offered and sold by the Company from time to time as set forth in the prospectus dated December 4, 2007 (the ""), and as may be set forth from time to time in one or more supplements to the Prospectus.  This opinion letter is rendered in connection with the proposed public offering of up to $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.75% Notes due 2017 (the ""), as described in a prospectus supplement dated December 4, 2007 (the "").  This opinion letter is furnished to you at your request to enable you to fulfill the requirements of Item 601(b)(8) of Regulation S-K, 17 C.F.R. 229.601(b)(8), in connection with the Registration Statement.  Capitalized terms used in this letter and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Prospectus Supplement.
Company
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Notes
Prospectus Supplement
                                This opinion letter is based as to matters of law solely on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, judicial authority, current administrative rulings and practice, and existing and proposed Treasury Regulations, all as in effect and existing on the date hereof (collectively, "").  These provisions and interpretations are subject to changes, which may or may not be retroactive in effect, that might result in material modifications of our opinion.  We express no opinion herein as to any other laws, statutes, regulations, or ordinances.  Our opinion does not foreclose the possibility of a contrary determination by the Internal Revenue Service (the "") or a court of competent jurisdiction, or of a contrary position by the IRS or the Treasury Department in regulations or rulings issued in the future.  In this regard, although we believe that our opinion set forth herein will be sustained if challenged, an opinion of counsel with respect to an issue is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and is not a guarantee that the IRS will not assert a contrary position with respect to such issue or that a court will not sustain such a position asserted by the IRS.
federal income tax laws
IRS
 
                                In rendering the following opinion, we have examined such statutes, regulations, records, certificates and other documents as we have considered necessary or appropriate as a basis for such opinion, including (but not limited to) the following: (i) an executed copy of the Registration Statement; (ii) the Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement; (iii) a specimen copy of the Notes; and (iv) an executed copy of the Indenture, dated as of December 7, 2007, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee, as supplemented by the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the Notes.
                                In our review, we have assumed that all of the representations and statements set forth in such documents are true and correct, and all of the obligations imposed by any such documents on the parties thereto have been and will continue to be performed or satisfied in accordance with their terms.  We also have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the proper execution of all documents, the accuracy and completeness of all documents submitted to us, the authenticity of all original documents, and the conformity to authentic original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies (including telecopies).  This opinion letter is given, and all statements herein are made, in the context of the foregoing.
                                For purposes of rendering our opinion, we have not made an independent investigation of the facts set forth in any of the above-referenced documents, including the Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement.  We have consequently relied upon representations and information presented in such documents.
                                Based upon, and subject to, the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the discussion in the Prospectus Supplement under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences," to the extent that it describes provisions of federal income tax law, is correct in all material respects as of the date hereof.
                                We assume no obligation to advise you of any changes in the foregoing subsequent to the effective date of the Registration Statement.  This opinion letter has been prepared solely for your use in connection with the filing of the Registration Statement on the date of this opinion letter and should not be quoted in whole or in part or otherwise referred to, nor filed with or furnished to, any other governmental agency or other person or entity without the prior written consent of this firm.
                                We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement.  In giving such consent, we do not admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.


