FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20071030130407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
McCormick & Company, Incorporated
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b).
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c).
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
(b)           The Board of Directors of the Registrant has named Joseph W. McGrath to the Board of Directors of the Registrant. Mr. McGrath is the President & Chief Executive Officer of Unisys Corporation.
Mr. McGrath's appointment will be effective November 27, 2007.  He will become a member of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on the same date.   There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. McGrath and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. McGrath was selected as a director.  There have been no transactions, nor are there any currently proposed transactions, to which the Registrant was or is to be a party with which Mr. McGrath, or any member of his immediate family, had, or will have, a direct or indirect material interest.
Furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release labeled "McCormick Appoints Joseph McGrath to Board of Directors."
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
The exhibit to this report is listed in Item 5.02 above and in the Exhibit Index that follows the signature line.
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
SPARKS, MD, OCTOBER 26 - - - McCormick & Company, Incorporated (NYSE:MKC) today announced that Joseph W. McGrath, President and Chief Executive Officer of Unisys Corporation, has been appointed to the Board of Directors of McCormick, effective November 27, 2007.
 
Mr. McGrath has been a senior executive of Unisys Corporation since 1999 and its President and Chief Executive Officer since January 1, 2005.  Prior to becoming CEO, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer; Executive Vice President and President of Unisys Enterprise Transformation Services; and Senior Vice President of Sales and Chief Marketing Officer.  Prior to joining Unisys, Mr. McGrath was a senior executive at Xerox Corporation and the Gartner Group.
 
Mr. McGrath is a member of The Business Roundtable, the Technology CEO Council, and the G100.  He also serves on the Professional Advisory Board for the Rutgers University Center for Global Change and Governance.
 
Commented Robert J. Lawless, Chairman and CEO of McCormick, "We are very pleased to welcome Mr. McGrath to our Board.  He not only has several years of senior leadership experience with major multinational companies, but he also brings a wealth of knowledge about information technology.  His global perspective and his insight on information technology issues will be invaluable to McCormick and its stockholders."
 
About McCormick and Co., Inc.
 
McCormick & Company, Incorporated is the global leader in the manufacture, marketing and distribution of spices, seasonings and flavors to the entire food industry  to foodservice and food manufacturers as well as to retail outlets.
 
 
For information contact:
 
10/2007
 


