FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20090625080644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 25, 2009 the Registrant issued a press release and held a conference call with analysts to report on the results of operations for the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, which ended on May 31, 2009.
Furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release labeled "McCormick Announces Second Quarter Financial Results and Reaffirms 2009 Profit Outlook" which includes an unaudited Consolidated Income Statement for the three and six month periods ended May 31, 2009, an unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Registrant as of May 31, 2009, and an unaudited Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the six months ended May 31, 2009.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The exhibit to this report is listed in Item 2.02 above and in the Exhibit Index that follows the signature line.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SPARKS, MD, JUNE 25  McCormick & Company, Incorporated (NYSE:MKC):
 
 
 
McCormick & Company, Incorporated today reported a second quarter of solid financial results for its 2009 fiscal year. The Company reaffirmed its earnings per share guidance for 2009 of $2.24 to $2.28 which includes $0.05 of restructuring charges.
In the second quarter of 2009, sales declined 1%, but in local currency rose 7%. This increase in local currency was led by a 19% increase in consumer business sales in the Americas, which included 13% of additional sales from the Lawry's acquisition. In this region, product innovation and marketing activity also led to higher sales of dry seasoning mixes, grilling items and a number of other products, including Easter-related spices and seasonings. In local currency, the Company grew industrial sales in the Americas this quarter with an increase of 6% of which Lawry's added 2%. Sales this quarter in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region (EMEA) were impacted by the difficult economy and the bankruptcy of a primary food service distributor in the U.K. In these markets, the Company is increasing coupons and promotions to support the value of its consumer brands and, in response to the bankruptcy, has begun to supply its food service customers directly.
A more favorable sales mix enhanced by the acquisition of strong brands continues to increase profits. The Company is also improving profitability with savings from its Comprehensive Continuous Improvement (CCI) program and other actions taken to reduce costs. As a result, gross profit margin of 39.9% was achieved in the second quarter of 2009 compared to 39.0% in the second quarter of 2008. Operating income of $82.5 million rose 16% when measured on a comparable basis, excluding restructuring charges and credits to the second quarter of 2008. This increase is net of $10 million of additional brand marketing support, as well as $7 million of costs related to the distributor bankruptcy.
For the second quarter, earnings per share were $0.38 compared to $0.41 in the second quarter of 2008. On a comparable basis, excluding the impact of restructuring charges and credits in 2008 and 2009, this was an increase of $0.03. Higher operating income added $0.06 per share, offset by $0.01 from higher net interest expense and $0.02 from a discrete tax item included in this quarter's financial results.
Through the first half of 2009, $97 million of cash flow from operations reflected the Company's higher net income and progress with working capital management. During 2009 this cash is being used to reduce debt associated with the acquisition of Lawry's and to fund dividends.
Alan D. Wilson, Chairman, President and CEO, stated, "McCormick continues to achieve solid financial results in a tough economy. Sales growth for our U.S. consumer business was particularly strong this quarter as a result of effective marketing support, the addition of Lawry's and continued consumer interest in our leading brands. This more favorable business mix, together with CCI, our restructuring program and other cost reductions, led to profit and margin increases that were right in line with our 2009 objectives.
"We are effectively navigating through a difficult global economic environment. We were able to manage an unexpected bankruptcy cost this quarter, along with further volatility in raw material costs and foreign currency exchange rates, and still deliver our targeted profit growth
"McCormick employees are effectively managing through these challenges and have remained focused on sales growth, cost containment and meeting objectives. Our business fundamentals are sound and we are well-positioned for further increases in sales and profit."
Based on strong profit performance in the first half and a positive outlook for the second half, the Company reaffirmed its 2009 earnings per share projection of $2.24 to $2.28. This is an increase of 7 to 9% versus 2008 on a comparable basis when the impact of restructuring charges and credits, and unusual items are excluded. Sales in 2009 are expected to grow 2 to 3%, which is unchanged from prior 2009 guidance. The Company expects to achieve a gross profit margin increase of at least 0.5 percentage points for the fiscal year. Year-to-date, marketing support has been increased approximately $10 million and a similar increase is planned for the second half. This investment to drive sales of McCormick's brands is being fueled by CCI and other cost savings which are projected to reach $30 million in 2009.
Business Segment Results
 
For the second quarter, consumer business sales rose 4% when compared to 2008, and in local currency grew 12%. The Company increased volume and mix 8%, due in large part to sales in the Americas, including the impact of Lawry's, which was acquired in August 2008. Pricing actions taken to offset higher costs added 4% to sales.
 
 
For the second quarter, operating income, excluding restructuring charges, rose 28%. This increase was driven by higher sales and cost reductions as well as a favorable business mix. A portion of the favorable business mix is due to the integration of the Lawry's business which is nearly complete and has been accomplished with few incremental costs.
 
Industrial business sales declined 7% in the second quarter, but grew 3% in local currency when compared to 2008. This growth was due largely to pricing actions which reflected increased costs of certain commodities adding 6% to sales. This was offset in part by a reduction in volume and product mix which reduced sales by 3%.
 
 
 
Operating income for the industrial business, excluding restructuring charges, was $18 million in the second quarter of 2009, a decrease of $4 million from the second quarter of 2008. This decrease included $7 million of costs related to the distributor bankruptcy. Even with these costs, the Company expects to report an increase in industrial operating income for the 2009 fiscal year as a result of a positive sales mix and cost reduction activities.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The non-GAAP information in this press release is not a measure that is defined in generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The non-GAAP information in this press release excludes restructuring charges and credits, as well as unusual items recorded in fiscal year 2008. The unusual items were for amounts related to the Lawry's acquisition, including the gain on the sale of Season-All, and a non-cash impairment charge related to the value of the Silvo brand. Management believes the non-GAAP information is important for purposes of comparison to prior periods and development of future projections and earnings growth prospects. This information is also used by management to measure the profitability of our on-going operations and analyze the Company's business performance and trends. Management believes the non-GAAP measure provides a more consistent basis for assessing the Company's performance than the closest GAAP equivalent. Management therefore uses the non-GAAP information alongside the most directly comparable GAAP measures in this press release.
Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company has provided below certain non-GAAP financial results excluding amounts related to a restructuring program in 2009 and 2008, as well as unusual items recorded in the third and fourth quarters of 2008.
 
 
Live Webcast
As previously announced, McCormick will hold a conference call with analysts today at 8:00 a.m. ET. The conference call will be webcast live via the McCormick web site. Go to and follow directions to listen to the call and access the accompanying presentation materials. At this same location, a replay of the call will be available following the live call. Past press releases and additional information can be found at this address.
ir.mccormick.com
Forward-looking Information
Certain information contained in this release, including expected trends in net sales and earnings performance, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current views and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Results may be materially affected by external factors such as damage to our reputation or brand name, business interruptions due to natural disasters or similar unexpected events, actions of competitors, customer relationships and financial condition, the ability to achieve expected cost savings and margin improvements, the successful acquisition and integration of new businesses, fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw and packaging materials, and global economic conditions generally which would include the availability of financing, interest and inflation rates as well as foreign currency fluctuations and other risks described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly, any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About McCormick
McCormick & Company, Incorporated is a global leader in the manufacture, marketing and distribution of spices, seasonings, specialty foods and flavors to the entire food industry  retail outlets, food manufacturers and food service businesses.
For information contact:
Corporate Communications:
John McCormick (410) 771-7110 or
mailto:john_mccormick@mccormick.com
Investor Relations: Joyce Brooks (410) 771-7244 or
mailto:joyce_brooks@mccormick.com
6/2009
Consolidated Income Statement (Unaudited)
(In millions except per-share data)
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited)
(In millions)
 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
(In millions)
 


