FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20090311165325.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On March 10, 2009, the Registrant issued a press release announcing that on April 1, 2009 it will amend its policy regarding the personal use of corporate aircraft to provide that the Registrant will no longer provide its executive officers with a gross-up to cover the individual income tax incurred when the corporate aircraft is used for personal purposes (to include spousal travel on business trips). Previously, the policy provided that executive officers would receive a gross-up for the tax associated with the value of the personal usage, including the value of spousal travel if it was requested by McCormick.
Furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release labeled "McCormick to Amend Policy Regarding Corporate Aircraft Travel."
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The exhibit to this report is listed in Item 7.01 above and in the Exhibit Index that follows the signature line.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SPARKS, MD, MARCH 10  On April 1, 2009, McCormick & Company, Incorporated (NYSE:MKC) will amend its policy regarding the personal use of corporate aircraft to provide that the Company will no longer provide its executive officers with a gross-up to cover the individual income tax incurred when the corporate aircraft is used for personal purposes (to include spousal travel on business trips). Previously, the policy provided that executive officers would receive a gross-up for the tax associated with the value of the personal usage, including the value of spousal travel if it was requested by McCormick.
About McCormick
McCormick & Company, Incorporated is a global leader in the manufacture, marketing and distribution of spices, seasonings, specialty foods and flavors to the entire food industry  retail outlets, food manufacturers and food service businesses.
For information contact:
Corporate Communications: John McCormick (410-771-7110 or
john_mccormick@mccormick.com)
Investor Relations: Joyce Brooks (410-771-7244 or joyce_brooks@mccormick.com)
3/2009


