FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20101130154334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02(d) Election of New Director.
(1) On November 23, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Registrant elected Gordon M. Stetz, Jr. to the Board of Directors, effective January 25, 2011. Mr. Stetz is the Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer of the Registrant.
(2) There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Stetz and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Stetz was selected as a director.
(3) Mr. Stetz will not be named to any committee of the Board of Directors.
(4) Except as referenced in paragraph (5) below, there have been no transactions, nor are there any currently proposed transactions, to which the Registrant was or is to be a party and in which Mr. Stetz or any member of his immediate family had or will have a direct or indirect material interest.
(5) Mr. Stetz participates in the compensation arrangements for executive officers described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis of the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2010. Mr. Stetz has not otherwise entered into any material plan, contract, or arrangement, or amendment thereto, or received any grant or award under such plan, contract or arrangement, in connection with his selection as a director.
Furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release labeled "McCormick appoints Gordon M. Stetz, Jr. to Board of Directors."
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The exhibit to this report is listed in the Exhibit Index that follows the signature line.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SPARKS, MD. NOVEMBER 30  McCormick and Company, Incorporated (NYSE:MKC) today announced that Gordon M. Stetz, Jr., Executive Vice President and CFO of McCormick & Company, Inc. has been elected to the Board of Directors effective January 25, 2011.
Mr. Stetz is currently a member of the McCormick Management Committee and has been CFO since November 2007. Prior to his most recent position, he was Vice President-Finance and CFO for McCormick's Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) Zone. Mr. Stetz joined McCormick in 1987 and has held a variety of increasingly responsible positions within its Finance organization throughout his 23-year McCormick career, including Vice President Finance & Administration for the Consumer Products Division, Vice President Acquisitions and Financial Planning, Assistant Treasurer and Financial Planning Manager for the Corporation. He played a key role in McCormick's acquisitions of Ducros and Zatarain's.
Commented McCormick's Chairman, President and CEO Alan D. Wilson, "We are pleased to have Gordon join the company's Board of Directors. His financial acumen and business insight will serve the Board well. During a 23-year career at McCormick, Gordon has established a reputation as a true professional who always acts in the best interest of the business and our shareholders."
Mr. Stetz, earned a BA from Bucknell University in Economics and French and an MBA in Finance from the University of Michigan. He is a CPA and an Emeritus member of the McCormick's Multiple Management Board. He is a member of FEI, AICPA and MACPA. The father of three, Gordon and his wife, Joan, live in Baltimore.
About McCormick & Company, Incorporated
McCormick & Company, Incorporated () is a global leader in flavor, with the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of spices, seasonings, specialty foods and flavorings to the entire food industry  retail outlets, food manufacturers and food service businesses.
www.mccormickcorporation.com
For information contact:
Corporate Communications:
Lori Robinson (410-527-6004 or )
lori_robinson@mccormick.com
 


