FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20100325073046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On March 25, 2010 the Registrant issued a press release and held a conference call with analysts to report on the results of operations for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, which ended on February 28, 2010.
Furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release labeled "McCormick Delivers Strong First Quarter Results and Reaffirms 2010 Profit Outlook," which includes an unaudited Consolidated Income Statement for the three months ended February 28, 2010, an unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Registrant as of February 28, 2010, and an unaudited Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the three months ended February 28, 2010.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The exhibit to this report is listed in Item 2.02 above and in the Exhibit Index that follows the signature line.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SPARKS, MD, MARCH 25  McCormick & Company, Incorporated (NYSE:MKC):
 
 
 
 
McCormick & Company, Incorporated today reported a strong increase in profit for the first quarter of its 2010 fiscal year. The Company reaffirms its earnings per share guidance for 2010 of $2.49 to $2.54.
Alan D. Wilson, Chairman, President and CEO, commented, "Today we find more consumers eating at home and looking for great taste, convenience, value and wellness. Our goal for 2010 is to capture their interest with a significant increase in marketing support and a line-up of exciting new products. In the first quarter we increased brand marketing by 28% and introduced several new products. We are pleased to see sales in local currency for our consumer business up 4% in response to these initiatives. While our industrial business continues to be impacted by weakness in away-from-home eating, our team continues to achieve greater efficiency and shape the portfolio to a more profitable mix of business. As a result, we increased operating income for this business more than 30% compared to the year-ago period. Across both businesses, our first quarter performance has us off to a great start in 2010."
In the first quarter of 2010, sales grew 6%, and in local currency rose 2%. For the consumer business, the Company increased brand marketing support by $8 million with advertising behind seasonal holiday products, health and wellness attributes of spices and herbs, new products and authentic ethnic flavors. This higher marketing support, along with the impact of new products, drove a solid increase in consumer business sales. Sales for the industrial business rose as a result of favorable currency exchange rates but were also impacted by restaurant industry weakness in several markets.
The Company achieved an increase in both operating income and operating income margin in the first quarter with higher sales, a favorable sales mix and CCI-led cost savings. Comprehensive Continuous Improvement (CCI) is an ongoing initiative to improve productivity and reduce costs throughout the Company's global operations. Gross profit margin rose to 40.6% from 39.6% in the year-ago period. Included in cost of goods sold was $5 million of costs for a product recall related to an ingredient supplied by Basic Food Flavors, which affected a number of companies in the food industry. Income from unconsolidated operations also rose this quarter as a result of sales growth, a more favorable cost for soybean oil and favorable currency exchange rates when compared to the first quarter of 2009 from the Company's joint venture in Mexico.
Earnings per share rose 16% to $0.51 from $0.44 in the first quarter of 2009. This $0.07 per share increase was primarily driven by higher operating income and the increase in income from unconsolidated operations. Cash flow from operations in the first quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2009 was similar. In the first quarter of 2010, higher net income and improved working capital more than offset a $25 million increase in U.S. pension plan contributions when compared to the year-ago period.
The Company reaffirms its goal to increase 2010 earnings per share to a range of $2.49 to $2.54 and to grow sales 2 to 4% in local currency with an additional 2% sales increase from favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Additional guidance for 2010 includes a 0.5 percentage point increase in gross profit margin, a $20 million increase in marketing support and strong cash flow from operations.
The Company currently expects earnings per share in the second quarter of 2010 to range from $0.42 to $0.45 per share. Compared to the year-ago quarter, marketing spending will be increased significantly and will include support for several new product launches. In addition, the Company expects further increases in gross profit margin and income from unconsolidated operations, but at a more moderate level than that reported in the first quarter of 2010.
Business Segment Results
 
Consumer business sales rose 8% when compared to the first quarter of 2009. In local currency the Company grew sales 4% as a result of higher volume and product mix.
 
 
 
For the first quarter, higher sales, a favorable business mix and improved productivity led to an 8% increase in consumer business operating income. This increase included an $8 million increase in marketing spending compared to the year-ago period.
Industrial business sales rose 4% when compared to the first quarter of 2009. In local currency sales declined 1%.
 
 
 
The favorable business mix and productivity improvements achieved in 2009, continued into the first quarter of 2010 with industrial business operating income up 34% compared to the year-ago period.
Live Webcast
As previously announced, McCormick will hold a conference call with analysts today at 8:00 a.m. ET. The conference call will be webcast live via the McCormick web site. Go to and follow directions to listen to the call and access the accompanying presentation materials. At this same location, a replay of the call will be available following the live call. Past press releases and additional information can be found at this address.
ir.mccormick.com
Forward-looking Information
Certain information contained in this release, including expected trends in net sales and earnings performance, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements are based on management's current views and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Results may be materially affected by external factors such as damage to our reputation or brand name, business interruptions due to natural disasters or similar unexpected events, actions of competitors, customer relationships and financial condition, the ability to achieve expected cost savings and margin improvements, the successful acquisition and integration of new businesses, fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw and packaging materials, and global economic conditions generally which would include the availability of financing, interest
and inflation rates as well as foreign currency fluctuations and other risks described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly, any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About McCormick
McCormick & Company, Incorporated is a global leader in the manufacture, marketing and distribution of spices, seasonings, specialty foods and flavors to the entire food industry  retail outlets, food manufacturers and food service businesses.
For information contact:
Corporate Communications:
John McCormick (410) 771-7110 or john_mccormick@mccormick.com
Investor Relations: Joyce Brooks (410) 771-7244 or joyce_brooks@mccormick.com
3/2010
 
Consolidated Income Statement (Unaudited)
(In millions except per-share data)
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited)
(In millions)
 
 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement (Unaudited)
(In millions)
 


