FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20110928074036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On September 28, 2011 the Registrant issued a press release and held a conference call with analysts to report on the results of operations for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, which ended on August 31, 2011.
Furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release labeled "McCormick Reports Strong Financial Results For Third Quarter 2011 and Reaffirms Fiscal Year Outlook," which includes an unaudited Consolidated Income Statement for the three and nine month periods ended August 31, 2011, an unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Registrant as of August 31, 2011, and an unaudited Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the nine months ended August 31, 2011.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The exhibit to this report is listed in Item 2.02 above and in the Exhibit Index that follows the signature line.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SPARKS, MD, SEPTEMBER 28 - McCormick & Company, Incorporated (NYSE:MKC), a global leader in flavor, today reported significant sales growth, increased operating income and earnings per share of $0.69 for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011. For the fiscal year, the Company reaffirmed its expectation to grow sales 6% to 8% in local currency and achieve earnings per share of $2.74 to $2.79.
 
 
 
 
Alan D. Wilson, Chairman, President and CEO, commented, "We were pleased to report strong sales growth and solid profit performance this quarter. Sales grew at a double-digit rate in both our consumer and industrial segments driven by new products, distribution gains and an increased investment in brand marketing, as well as pricing actions taken in response to higher costs. Employees throughout McCormick are focused on high performance and driving cost savings from our CCI program. This on-going initiative to improve productivity and reduce costs throughout our organization is now expected to deliver at least $50 million of cost savings in 2011.
"A key growth strategy for McCormick is to expand through acquisitions. First announced in June, we recently completed the acquisition of Kamis SA, a leading brand of spices, seasonings and mustard in Poland. We also completed the formation of a new joint venture to market and sell in India, Kohinoor, a leading brand of basmati rice and other food products. These businesses provide excellent growth opportunities in fast-growing markets. In the U.S., we expanded our portfolio of products that deliver flavor with the acquisition of Kitchen Basics. This $38 million investment gives McCormick a leading position in liquid stock, a product that adds depth and flavor to many dishes.
"As we head into our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2012, McCormick is facing further cost increases. These include higher costs for spices and herbs, such as pepper and cinnamon, as well as other ingredients. We continue to respond to these increases with a combination of pricing actions and our CCI cost savings, and we are on-track to achieve our profit goal for 2011."
McCormick's third quarter sales rose 16% to $920 million and increased 11% in local currency. Favorable volume and product mix drove a 6% increase, while pricing actions, taken in response to increased raw and packaging material costs, added 5% to sales. Consumer business sales rose 15%, with similar contributions from volume and product mix, pricing actions and favorable currency exchange rates. McCormick grew volume and product mix for the consumer business through new product introductions, brand marketing support and expanded distribution in a number of countries including the U.S., Canada, France and China. In addition, customers in the U.S. purchased an estimated $10 million of product in advance of a price increase effective in the fourth quarter of 2011. Industrial business sales rose 17% and increased 12% in local currency with higher volume and product mix, as well as pricing actions. Customer demand for McCormick's industrial products, particularly from quick service restaurants, was strong in each of McCormick's three geographic regions.
Gross profit rose 9% to $365 million due to higher sales. During the third quarter, further increases in material costs began to impact profit results, particularly for the industrial business. In response to these increases, the Company is implementing additional pricing actions. McCormick's CCI driven cost savings are another offset to increased costs, and the Company now expects to achieve at least $50 million of costs savings in 2011. While gross profit dollars rose in the third quarter, the net effect of higher costs, increased pricing and CCI cost savings reduced gross profit margin to 39.6% from 42.1% in the year ago period.
The Company continues to invest in the growth of its brands and in the third quarter of 2011, increased marketing support by 27% when compared to the year ago period. Also in the third quarter of 2011, $1 million of transaction costs were recorded that related to the acquisition of Kamis and the Kohinoor joint venture. Even with the increased material costs, additional investment in brand marketing support, and impact of transaction costs, operating income rose 2% to $128 million from the third quarter of 2010. The impact of discrete tax items added $5 million to net income in the third quarter of 2011. In comparison, discrete tax items added $16 million to net income in the third quarter of 2010. Of this amount, $14 million related to the reversal of a significant tax accrual for a past tax year.
Earnings per share were $0.69 compared to $0.76 in the third quarter of 2010. In the third quarter of 2010, the $14 million reversal of the significant tax accrual added $0.10 to earnings per share. Excluding this impact from the year ago period, earnings per share in the third quarter of 2011 rose $0.03. Higher operating income drove the increase, as well as other items including discrete tax items, and a reduction in shares outstanding. Year to date, cash flow from operations of $86 million was $60 million below the year-ago period largely as a result of increases in inventory that were significantly affected by higher material costs. In addition, the Company has taken strategic inventory positions on certain spices and herbs in an environment of rising costs and of political risk in several growing regions.
McCormick reaffirmed its sales and profit goals for 2011, which include the impact of acquisition activity. Sales are expected to grow 6% to 8% in local currency, with an additional 2% expected from favorable currency exchange rates. Earnings per share are expected to be $2.74 to $2.79. While the projected range of earnings per share has not changed, the Company now projects total transaction costs of $11 million related to Kamis and Kohinoor, which are expected to lower 2011 earnings per share $0.07. Through the end of the third quarter, $4 million of these costs had been recorded, which lowered earnings per share by $0.02. Based on the September 2011 closing dates of the Kamis and Kohinoor transactions, $7 million of these costs will be recorded in the fourth quarter, lowering earnings per share during this period by $0.05.
Business Segment Results
Consumer Business
 
Consumer business sales rose 15% from the third quarter of 2010. In local currency sales grew 10% due to favorable volume and product mix and pricing.
 
 
For the third quarter, operating income for the consumer business rose 5% to $101 million. The impact of higher sales and CCI driven cost savings were offset in part by increased material costs and an $7 million increase in marketing, which included support behind the McCormick and Zatarain's brands in the United States. In response to further increases in material costs, McCormick has additional pricing actions being implemented for its branded and private label products.
Industrial Business
 
Industrial business sales rose 17% when compared to the third quarter of 2010. In local currency, sales grew 12% as a result of favorable volume and product mix, as well as pricing actions.
 
 
 
Industrial business operating income declined 8% to $28 million. The impact of higher sales and CCI driven cost savings was more than offset by increased material costs. In response to increased material costs, McCormick has additional pricing actions underway for its industrial products. While the sales mix had an unfavorable impact on operating income in the third quarter of 2011, the Company is continuing to pursue its strategy to grow sales of higher-margin, value-added products for the industrial business.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The non-GAAP information in this press release is not a measure that is defined in generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The non-GAAP information in this press release excludes the reversal of a significant tax accrual recorded in the third quarter of 2010. Management believes the non-GAAP information is important for purposes of comparison to prior periods and development of future projections and earnings growth prospects. This information is also used by management to measure the profitability of our on-going operations and analyze the Company's business performance and trends. Management believes the non-GAAP measures provide a more consistent basis for assessing the Company's performance than the closest GAAP equivalent. Management, therefore, uses the non-GAAP information alongside the most directly comparable GAAP measures in this press release.
Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company has provided below certain non-GAAP financial results excluding amounts related to the reversal of a significant tax accrual recorded in the third quarter of 2010.
 
Live Webcast
As previously announced, McCormick will hold a conference call with analysts today at 8:00 a.m. ET. The conference call will be webcast live via the McCormick web site. Go to and follow directions to listen to the call and access the accompanying presentation materials. At this same location, a replay of the call will be available following the live call. Past press releases and additional information can be found at this address.
ir.mccormick.com
Forward-looking Information
Certain information contained in this release, including statements concerning expected performance such as those relating to net sales, earnings, cost savings and brand marketing support, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
These and other forward-looking statements are based on management's current views and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Results may be materially affected by external factors such as damage to our reputation or brand name, business interruptions due to natural disasters or similar unexpected events, actions of competitors, customer relationships and financial condition, the ability to achieve expected cost savings and margin improvements, the successful acquisition and integration of new businesses, fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw and packaging materials, changes in regulatory requirements, and global economic conditions generally which would include the availability of financing, interest, inflation rates and investment return on retirement plan assets, as well as foreign currency fluctuations and other risks described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly, any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About McCormick & Company, Incorporated
McCormick & Company, Incorporated is a global leader in flavor. With more than $3 billion in annual sales, the Company manufactures, markets and distributes spices, seasoning mixes, condiments and other flavorful products to the entire food industry  retail outlets, food manufacturers and foodservice businesses.
Every day, no matter where or what you eat, you can enjoy food flavored by McCormick. .
McCormick Brings Passion to Flavor
To learn more please visit us at .
www.mccormickcorporation.com
For information contact:
Corporate Communications:
Lori Robinson (410) 527-6004 or
lori_robinson@mccormick.com
Investor Relations:
Joyce Brooks (410) 771-7244 or
joyce_brooks@mccormick.com
9/2011
 
 
Consolidated Income Statement (Unaudited)
(In millions except per-share data)
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited)
(In millions)
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
(In millions)
 


