FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20120327073053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On March 27, 2012 the Registrant issued a press release and held a conference call with analysts to report on the results of operations for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, which ended on February 29, 2012.
Furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release labeled "McCormick Reports First Quarter Financial Results, Reaffirms 2012 Outlook," which includes an unaudited Consolidated Income Statement for the three months ended February 29, 2012, an unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Registrant as of February 29, 2012, and an unaudited Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the three months ended February 29, 2012.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The exhibit to this report is listed in Item 2.02 above and in the Exhibit Index that follows the signature line.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SPARKS, MD, MARCH 27 - McCormick & Company, Incorporated (NYSE:MKC), a global leader in flavor, today reported first quarter financial results for fiscal year 2012 and reaffirmed its 2012 outlook.
 
 
 
Alan D. Wilson, Chairman, President and CEO, commented, "Our financial results for the first quarter of 2012 demonstrated the effectiveness of our strategy and growth initiatives. We grew net sales 16%, with double-digit increases in both our consumer and industrial businesses. More than a third of our sales growth was driven by acquisitions in emerging markets that we completed in 2011. We have pricing actions in place as a response to higher material costs, which also led to higher sales. In an environment where consumers in many markets are confronted with a tough economy and higher prices, we were pleased to achieve increased volume and product mix.
"Product innovation, expanded distribution and a 22% increase in brand marketing support helped maintain the positive momentum for our business, and we continue to benefit from our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement (CCI) program. As anticipated, profit margins in the first quarter were adversely affected by year-over-year material cost inflation, although this situation is expected to gradually improve in the remainder of 2012. As a result of lower profit margins, we projected a reduction in net income and earnings per share when compared to the first quarter of 2011. While the first quarter 2012 earnings per share result of $0.55 was $0.02 below the year-ago period, it was slightly ahead of our guidance due to our underlying strength in sales."
McCormick's first quarter sales rose 16%. Acquisitions completed in 2011 added 7% to sales during this period. Pricing actions taken in response to higher material costs increased sales 5% and volume and product mix rose 4% compared to the first quarter of 2011. Operating income rose to $113 million from $111 million in the year-ago period. The favorable impact of higher sales and cost savings from McCormick's CCI program were offset in part by a steep increase in material costs and a $9 million increase in brand marketing support. The increase in material costs also impacted income from McCormick's joint venture in Mexico, along with unfavorable currency exchange rates. As a result of these factors, earnings per share was $0.55 in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $0.57 in the first quarter of 2011.
Cash flow from operations was $23 million in the first quarter of 2012, which factors in a $21 million increase in pension contributions, compared to a negative $23 million in the year-ago period. The year-over-year improvement was mainly due to a lower increase in inventory in the most recent quarter. Inventory remains above historical levels largely as a result of higher material costs, raw material
positions taken in order to assure a steady supply of product, and increases related to acquisitions. Due to the seasonality of McCormick's business, cash flow from operations typically increases significantly in the second half of the fiscal year.
The Company reaffirmed its guidance for fiscal year 2012 sales growth and earnings per share. Sales are projected to grow 9% to 11% in local currency. Based on current rates, the Company estimates a 2% reduction in sales from the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Included in the 9% to 11% sales growth range is an expected 4% increase from acquisitions completed in 2011 and the favorable impact of pricing actions taken in response to increased material costs. In addition to pricing actions, the Company expects to offset a portion of this material cost increase with productivity improvements from its CCI program and now anticipates cost savings of at least $45 million in 2012.
Earnings per share for fiscal year 2012 are expected to be in a range of $3.01 to $3.06. This increase includes the anticipated benefit of higher sales and CCI cost savings in 2012, along with a favorable comparison to 2011 when $0.07 per share of acquisition-related transaction costs were recorded. The Company anticipates that these increases in profit will be offset in part by increased material costs as well as increased retirement benefit expenses.
Business Segment Results
Consumer Business
(in millions)
 
Consumer business sales grew 18% when compared to the first quarter of 2011. Acquisitions completed in 2011, accounted for two thirds of the increase and the remaining third was largely due to pricing actions. Even with increased prices, volume and product mix rose slightly in the first quarter. The impact of foreign currency exchange rates on sales growth was minimal this period.
 
 
 
For the first quarter, operating income for the consumer business was $81 million, which compares to $87 million in the first quarter of 2011. While the Company achieved significant sales growth and benefitted from CCI cost savings, it also faced a significant year-over-year increase in material costs, although this is expected to ease somewhat in the second quarter. In addition, the operating income result included the effect of a $10 million increase in marketing, which is part of McCormick's commitment to support its brands.
Industrial Business
(in millions)
 
Industrial business sales grew 13% when compared to the first quarter of 2011. In local currency, sales grew 15% with about two thirds of the increase from higher volume and product mix and one third from pricing actions.
 
 
 
As a result of the significant increase in sales and CCI cost savings, industrial business operating income rose 31% to $31 million and operating income margin rose to 8.3%, from $24 million and 7.2% in the year-ago period, respectively.
Live Webcast
As previously announced, McCormick will hold a conference call with analysts today at 8:00 a.m. ET. The conference call will be webcast live via the McCormick web site. Go to and follow directions to listen to the call and access the accompanying presentation materials. At this same location, a replay of the call will be available following the live call. Past press releases and additional information can be found at this address.
ir.mccormick.com
Forward-looking Information
Certain information contained in this release, including statements concerning expected performance such as those relating to net sales, earnings, cost savings, acquisitions and brand marketing support, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements may be identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "should," "anticipate," "believe" and "plan."
These and other forward-looking statements are based on management's current views and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Results may be materially affected by external factors such as damage to our reputation or brand name, business interruptions due to natural disasters or similar unexpected events, actions of competitors, customer relationships and financial condition, the ability to achieve expected cost savings and margin improvements, the successful acquisition and integration of new businesses, fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw and packaging materials, changes in regulatory requirements, and global economic conditions generally which would include the availability of financing, interest, inflation rates and investment return on retirement plan assets, as well as foreign currency fluctuations, risks associated with our information technology systems, the threat of data breaches or cyber attacks, and other risks described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly, any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About McCormick & Company, Incorporated
McCormick & Company, Incorporated is a global leader in flavor. With more than $3.5 billion in annual sales, the Company manufactures, markets and distributes spices, seasoning mixes, condiments and other flavorful products to the entire food industry  retail outlets, food manufacturers and foodservice businesses.
Every day, no matter where or what you eat, you can enjoy food flavored by McCormick. .
McCormick Brings Passion to Flavor
To learn more please visit us at .
www.mccormickcorporation.com
For information contact:
Corporate Communications:
Lori Robinson (410) 527-6004 or
lori_robinson@mccormick.com
Investor Relations:
Joyce Brooks (410) 771-7244 or
joyce_brooks@mccormick.com
3/2012
 
Consolidated Income Statement (Unaudited)
(In millions except per-share data)
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited)
(In millions)
 
 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement (Unaudited)
(In millions)
 


