FILE:MKC/MKC-8K-20120126073521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 26, 2012 the Registrant issued a press release and held a conference call with analysts to report on the results of operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, which ended on November 30, 2011.
Furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release labeled "McCormick Announces Strong Finish To Fiscal Year 2011 and Outlook For Growth In 2012," which includes an unaudited Consolidated Income Statement for the three and twelve month periods ended November 30, 2011, an unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Registrant as of November 30, 2011, and an unaudited Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the twelve months ended November 30, 2011.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The exhibit to this report is listed in Item 2.02 above and in the Exhibit Index that follows the signature line.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SPARKS, MD, JANUARY 26 - McCormick & Company, Incorporated (NYSE:MKC), a global leader in flavor, today reported double-digit sales growth for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended November 30, 2011. For the year, higher sales and cost savings more than offset the impact of increased material costs and led to a 6% increase in operating income and earnings per share of $2.79. In fiscal year 2012, the Company expects to grow sales 9% to 11% in local currency and achieve earnings per share of $3.01 to $3.06.
 
 
 
Alan D. Wilson, Chairman, President & CEO, commented, "Our fourth quarter financial results were a strong finish to fiscal year 2011. We grew fourth quarter sales at a double-digit rate and achieved increased operating income in an environment that remains difficult in many of our largest markets. This performance demonstrates the strength of our brands, our ability to innovate and excellent progress with CCI.
"At McCormick, 2011 was a year of significant accomplishment. We completed three acquisitions, and the integration of these businesses has gone well. These acquisitions are accelerating our sales and profit growth and have expanded our presence in emerging markets and across several growth platforms. In 2012 we expect at least 13% of sales to come from emerging markets, up from 6% in 2006. Innovation is another key avenue of growth and new products launched in the past three years added 9% to sales in 2011. Cost savings in 2011 from our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement program - CCI - totaled $65 million, ahead of our initial target. Along with our pricing actions, these cost savings provided an offset to increased material costs and also helped fuel a $20 million increase in brand marketing support. I want to recognize employees throughout McCormick for these achievements that drove our growth and helped us navigate a period of volatility in our material costs and weakness in the broad economic environment. During 2011, McCormick shareholders received nearly $150 million of the cash we generated through dividend payments, and in November, the Board approved an 11% increase in the quarterly dividend which was our 26
th
consecutive year of increase.
"Consumers around the world continue to demand great taste, and we are meeting this demand with our passion for flavor, innovative new products, in-store merchandising and creative meal ideas. Our outlook is for solid profit growth in 2012 driven by higher sales and further cost savings. We expect the weak economy and volatile material costs to persist, and we intend to continue adapting our pricing actions and marketing programs. We also plan to offset a portion of increased costs and fuel higher brand marketing support with our CCI cost savings and have set a goal to achieve at least $40 million in 2012."
Fiscal Year 2011 Results
The Company grew sales 11% in 2011 with a 5% increase in pricing, 4% from higher volume and product mix, and favorable foreign currency exchange rates that added 2%. Approximately half of the increase in volume and product mix was driven by acquisitions, and half by sales of new products, distribution gains and increased brand marketing support. The Company took price increases during the year in response to a double-digit increase in material costs.
Operating income rose 6% to $540 million. The higher sales and $65 million of CCI cost savings more than offset the unfavorable impact of increased material costs, and helped fund $20 million of incremental brand marketing support, which was a 12% increase from the amount spent in 2010. The 6% increase in operating income also included an $11 million unfavorable impact of transaction costs related to acquisitions completed in 2011.
Earnings per share for the fiscal year was $2.79 compared to $2.75 in 2010. In 2010, the reversal of a significant tax accrual increased earnings per share $0.10 and excluding this impact, adjusted earnings per share was $2.65. On a comparable basis, 2011 earnings per share rose $0.14 with the increase due to higher operating income, which included the $0.07 unfavorable impact of acquisition-related transaction costs.
The Company reported $340 million in net cash flow from operating activities in 2011 compared to $388 million in 2010. Cash flow in 2011 was affected by an increase in inventory that was primarily related to increased material costs, as well as strategic inventory positions of certain spices and herbs. During the year, $441 million of cash and increased borrowings were used to fund acquisitions and a joint venture. In addition, the Company returned cash to shareholders through $149 million of dividends and $89 million of share repurchases.
Fourth Quarter Results for Fiscal Year 2011
In the fourth quarter, the Company achieved 13% sales growth. Pricing actions added 6% to sales and favorable foreign currency exchange rates added 1%. Volume and product mix grew 6% with 5% driven by acquisitions. New products, distribution gains and increased brand marketing support also grew volume and product mix. These increases were offset in part by a shift in sales that was due to retailer purchases in advance of pricing actions, which lowered sales volume by approximately 2% in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the year ago period.
Operating income rose $7 million to $192 million, an increase of 4%. This increase included a $7 million unfavorable impact of transaction costs related to completed acquisitions, which lowered operating income by 4% in the fourth quarter. During the quarter, pricing actions and CCI cost savings more than offset the impact of increased material costs. Recognizing the importance of brand marketing support during the holiday season and in a period of increased pricing, the Company increased marketing by $10 million, including $4 million related to acquisitions. Excluding marketing support related to acquisitions, this was an 11% increase from the level of spending in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $0.98 compared to $0.99 in the fourth quarter of 2010. While higher operating income, including a $0.05 unfavorable impact from acquisition-related transaction costs, increased earnings per share, this was offset by an unfavorable tax rate, higher interest expense and lower income from unconsolidated operations. In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company had a more favorable tax rate due to increased U.S. foreign tax credits that resulted from the repatriation of cash from foreign subsidiaries.
Financial Outlook for Fiscal Year 2012
A difficult global economy and volatility in material costs are expected to persist in 2012. Despite this challenging environment, the Company expects to grow sales, generate CCI cost savings, invest in brand marketing support and deliver solid profit growth.
Sales are projected to grow 9% to 11% in local currency. Based on current rates, the Company estimates a 2% reduction in sales from the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Included in the 9% to 11% sales growth range is an expected 4% increase from acquisitions completed in 2011 and the favorable impact of pricing actions. While higher prices may impact sales volume in 2012, the Company plans to offset this by driving volume with new products, increased brand marketing support and expanded distribution. Material costs are projected to rise at a high single digit rate in 2012. In addition to pricing actions, the Company expects to offset a portion of this increase with CCI cost savings and has set a target to achieve at least $40 million.
Earnings per share are expected to be in a range of $3.01 to $3.06. This increase includes the anticipated benefit of higher sales and CCI cost savings in 2012, along with a favorable comparison to 2011 when acquisition-related transaction costs were recorded. The Company anticipates that these increases in profit will be offset in part by increased material costs as well as increased retirement benefit expense.
While 2012 earnings per share for the fiscal year are expected to grow 8% to 10%, earnings per share in the first quarter of 2012 are expected to be $0.51 to $0.54, which is a decline from the first quarter of 2011. In fiscal year 2011, material costs began to increase significantly in the second quarter. As a result, the Company anticipates a greater year-on-year increase in material costs in the first quarter of 2012 than in the following quarters. Higher material costs are also expected to adversely affect income from unconsolidated operations in the first quarter of 2012, along with unfavorable currency exchange rates. During the first quarter of 2012, the Company plans to increase brand marketing support by more than $5 million.
In 2012, the Company expects to increase net cash provided from operations as a result of higher income and a reduction in inventory.
Business Segment Fourth Quarter Results for Fiscal Year 2011
Consumer Business
Consumer business sales rose 13% from the fourth quarter of 2010. In local currency, sales grew 12% due to favorable pricing, and favorable volume and product mix, which includes the impact of acquisitions.
 
 
For the fourth quarter, operating income for the consumer business rose $5 million to $164 million. During this period, the Company recorded $7 million of acquisition-related transaction costs which lowered operating income for the consumer business. The impact of higher sales and CCI cost savings more than offset increased material costs and helped fund a $9 million increase in brand marketing support.
Industrial Business
Industrial business sales rose 13% from the fourth quarter of 2010 as a result of favorable volume and product mix, as well as pricing actions. The impact of foreign currency exchange rates was minimal.
 
 
 
Industrial business operating income rose 5% to $28 million largely as a result of strong sales growth. During this period, pricing actions and CCI cost savings more than offset increased material costs and a $1 million in increase in marketing support for branded foodservice products.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The non-GAAP information in this press release is not a measure that is defined in generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The non-GAAP information in this press release excludes the reversal of a significant tax accrual recorded in the third quarter of 2010. Management believes the non-GAAP information is important for purposes of comparison to prior periods and development of future
projections and earnings growth prospects. This information is also used by management to measure the profitability of our on-going operations and analyze the Company's business performance and trends. Management believes the non-GAAP measures provide a more consistent basis for assessing the Company's performance than the closest GAAP equivalent. Management, therefore, uses the non-GAAP information alongside the most directly comparable GAAP measures in this press release.
Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company has provided below certain non-GAAP financial results for fiscal year 2010 excluding amounts related to the reversal of a significant tax accrual recorded in the third quarter of 2010.
 
Live Webcast
As previously announced, McCormick will hold a conference call with analysts today at 8:00 a.m. ET. The conference call will be webcast live via the McCormick web site. Go to and follow directions to listen to the call and access the accompanying presentation materials. At this same location, a replay of the call will be available following the live call. Past press releases and additional information can be found at this address.
ir.mccormick.com
Forward-looking Information
Certain information contained in this release, including statements concerning expected performance such as those relating to net sales, earnings, cost savings, acquisitions and brand marketing support, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements may be identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe" and "plan."
These and other forward-looking statements are based on management's current views and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Results may be materially affected by external factors such as damage to our reputation or brand name, business interruptions due to natural disasters or similar unexpected events, actions of competitors, customer relationships and financial condition, the ability to achieve expected cost savings and margin improvements, the successful acquisition and integration of new businesses, fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw and packaging materials, changes in regulatory requirements, and global economic conditions generally which would include the availability of financing, interest, inflation rates and investment return on retirement plan assets, as well as foreign currency fluctuations and other risks described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly, any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About McCormick & Company, Incorporated
McCormick & Company, Incorporated is a global leader in flavor. With more than $3.5 billion in annual sales, the Company manufactures, markets and distributes spices, seasoning mixes, condiments and other flavorful products to the entire food industry  retail outlets, food manufacturers and foodservice businesses.
Every day, no matter where or what you eat, you can enjoy food flavored by McCormick. .
McCormick Brings Passion to Flavor
To learn more please visit us at .
www.mccormickcorporation.com
For information contact:
Corporate Communications:
Lori Robinson (410) 527-6004 or
lori_robinson@mccormick.com
Investor Relations:
Joyce Brooks (410) 771-7244 or
joyce_brooks@mccormick.com
1/2012
 
Consolidated Income Statement
(In millions except per-share data; for periods ending November 30)
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet
(In millions; for periods ending November 30)
 
 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
(In millions; for periods ending November 30)
 


