FILE:CME/CME-8K-20051027161219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 3.03 Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders.
On October 24, 2005, the Board of Directors of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc. (the "Company") approved a Second Amendment (the "Second Amendment") to the Companys Rights Agreement, by and between the Company and Computershare Investor Services, LLC (as successor to Mellon Investor Services LLC), as Rights Agent, originally adopted as of November 30, 2001, and amended by the First Amendment to the Rights Agreement, dated as of November 13, 2002 (the "Rights Agreement"). The Second Amendment amends the Rights Agreement to increase from $105 to $1,000 the "Purchase Price" required to be paid upon the exercise of a "Right" under the Rights Agreement to purchase one "Unit" consisting of one one-thousandth of a share of the Companys Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share. The Board of Directors believes the increase in the purchase price is necessary for the Rights Agreement to continue to serve the purpose for which it was initially adopted a nd was brought about by the increase in value of the Companys Class A common stock at the time of the Companys initial public offering of $35.00 per share to $348.00 per share on October 21, 2005, the last trading day prior to the Board of Directors approval of the Second Amendment. The Board of Directors continues to believe the Rights Agreement is necessary to preserve for the Companys stockholders the long-term value of the Company in the event of a potential takeover that is deemed by the Board of Directors to be coercive or unfair or otherwise not in the best interests of the Companys stockholders. The rights will continue to trade with the Companys Class A common stock, unless and until they are separated upon the occurrence of certain future events. The rights have certain anti-takeover effects. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire the Company on terms not approved by the Companys B oard of Directors. The rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by the Board of Directors since the rights may be amended to permit such acquisition or redeemed by the Company at $0.01 per right prior to the earlier of (i) a person or group of affiliated or associated persons acquiring beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the shares of the Companys common stock or Class A common stock, (ii) a person or group of affiliated or associated persons commencing a tender offer that would result in the acquisition of 15% or more of the shares of the Companys common stock or Class A common stock or (iii) the final expiration of the rights. The rights may also be redeemed following a person, entity or group of affiliated or associated persons acquiring beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the shares of common stock under certain limited circumstances. The Board of Directors is not currently aware of any attempt to take over or acquire the Company . While it may be deemed to have potential anti-takeover effects, the amendment to increase the exercise price of the rights is not prompted by any specific effort or takeover threat currently perceived by management. A copy of the Second Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits Exhibit 4.1 Second Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of October 26,2005, by and between Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc. and Computershare Investor Services, LLC.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 4.1
This Second Amendment to Rights Agreement (this "Amendment"), dated as of October 26, 2005 is by and between Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Computershare Investor Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Computershare").
the Company previously entered into a Rights Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2001 and amended as of November 13, 2002 (the "Rights Agreement"), with Computershare (as successor to Mellon Investor Services LLC) as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent");
WHEREAS
,
pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, the Company and Computershare may supplement or amend the Rights Agreement from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 27 thereof; and
WHEREAS
,
, the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that an amendment to the Rights Agreement as set forth herein is in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders, and the Company and Computershare desire to evidence such amendment in writing.
WHEREAS
in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements herein set forth, the parties hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
,
Paragraph (b) of Section 7 of the Rights Agreement is amended by deleting such paragraph (b) in its entirety and substituting a new paragraph (b) to read as follows:
Section 1. Amendment of Rights Agreement.
(b) The Purchase Price for each one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock pursuant to the exercise of a Right shall be $1,000, and shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Sections 11 and 13(a) hereof and shall be payable in accordance with paragraph (c) below.
The parties hereto hereby acknowledge and agree that, except as specifically amended hereby, the Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.
Section 2. Continued Effectiveness.
This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State.
Section 3. Governing Law.
This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Section 4. Execution in Counterparts.
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, or unless the context otherwise requires, all capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Rights Agreement.
Section 5. Defined Terms.
[
SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS
]
CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE HOLDINGS INC.
By: Name: Kathleen M. Cronin Title: Managing Director, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
/s/ Kathleen M. Cronin
COMPUTERSHARE INVESTOR SERVICES, LLC
By: Name: Keith Bradley Title: Vice President
/s/ Keith Bradley


