FILE:CME/CME-8K-20060208164504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Effective as of February 6, 2006, Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. ("CME"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc. ("CME Holdings") entered into an employment agreement with John P. Davidson III to serve as Managing Director and Chief Corporate Development Officer. The term of the agreement is from February 6, 2006 through February 6, 2009. For his service, Mr. Davidson is entitled to an annual base salary of at least $575,000. Mr. Davidson is also eligible to receive an annual bonus under our Annual Incentive Plan. For 2006, Mr. Davidson will be entitled to a minimum guaranteed bonus of at least $431,250. The agreement also provides that Mr. Davidson is entitled to insurance, vacation and other employee benefits, including participation in our equity program, commensurate with his position in accordance with our policies for members of the Management Team in effect from time to time. CME will also provide Mr. Davidson with relocation assistance, includin g but not limited to, temporary housing and moving expenses. To secure the continued service of Mr. Davidson, the agreement provides for a retention payment of $900,000 payable in two equal installments on the first and second year anniversaries of the effectiveness of the agreement. If the agreement is terminated because of death or disability or by CME with or without cause (as defined in the agreement), Mr. Davidson or his beneficiary will receive accrued base salary through the date of termination and other employee benefits to which he is entitled at such time in accordance with the terms of our plans and programs. In the event of termination with or without cause by CME, Mr. Davidson will forfeit any unvested or unearned compensation or long-term incentives. If Mr. Davidsons employment is terminated without cause by CME, he will be entitled to a one time lump sum payment equal to two times his base salary as of the date of termination for the remaining term of the agreement, if any, or 24 months, whichever period is shorter and a pro rated bonus commensurate with his position as a member of CMEs Management Team. During the term of the agreement and for one year after, Mr. Davidson may not render services to any competitor or otherwise compete with CME or solicit CME employees. The foregoing summary of Mr. Davidsons employment agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

THIS AGREEMENT, is effective as of the 6 day of February 2006, by and between CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE Inc. ("Employer" or "CME"), a Delaware Corporation, having its principal place of business at 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois, and John P. Davidson III ("Employee").
th
WHEREAS, Employer wishes to retain the services of Employee in the capacity of Managing Director and Chief Corporate Development Officer upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and Employee wishes to accept such employment;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, the parties mutually agree as follows:
The exercise of the right of CME to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 6(c) shall not abrogate any other rights or remedies of CME in respect of the breach giving rise to such termination.
If Employer terminates Employee's employment for Cause, he shall be entitled to accrued Base Salary through the date of the termination of his employment, other accrued employee benefits to which Employee is entitled upon his termination of employment with Employer, in accordance with the terms of the plans and programs of CME. Upon termination for Cause, Employee will forfeit any unvested or unearned compensation or long-term incentives, unless otherwise provided herein or specified in the terms of the plans and programs of CME.
a) . (i) Employee acknowledges that the successful development of CME's services and products, including CME's trading programs and systems, current and potential customer and business relationships, and business strategies and plans requires substantial time and expense. Such efforts generate for CME valuable and proprietary information ("Confidential Information") which gives CME a business advantage over others who do not have such information. Confidential information includes, but is not limited to the following: trade secrets, technical, business, proprietary or financial information of CME not generally known to the public, business plans, proposals, past and current prospect and customer lists, trading methodologies, systems and programs, training materials, research data bases and computer software; but shall not include information or ideas acquired by Employee prior to his employment with CME if such pre-existing information is generally known in the industry and is not proprietary to CME. Employee further acknowledges that during Employee's employment by CME, Employee's duties will expose Employee to Confidential Information, and Employee understands and acknowledges that each and every component of the Confidential Information constitutes a protectible business interest of CME.
Confidential Information
(ii) Throughout Employee's employment with the Company and at all times thereafter: (1) Employee will hold all Confidential Information in the strictest confidence, take all reasonable precautions to prevent its inadvertent disclosure to any unauthorized person, and follow all CME policies protecting the Confidential Information; (2) Employee will not, directly or indirectly, utilize, disclose, or make available to any other person or entity, any of the Confidential Information, other than in the proper performance of Employee's duties during Employee's employment with CME; and (3) if Employee learns that any person or entity is taking or threatening to take any action which would compromise any Confidential Information, Employee will promptly advise CME of all facts concerning such action or threatened action.
(iii) If Employee receives any subpoena or becomes subject to any legal obligation that might require Employee to disclose Confidential Information, Employee will provide prompt written notice of that fact to CME, enclosing a copy of the subpoena and any other documents describing the legal obligation. In the event that CME objects to the disclosure of Confidential Information, by way of a motion to quash or otherwise, Employee agrees to not disclose any Confidential Information while any such objection is pending.
(iv) At the request of CME (or, without any request, upon termination of Employee's employment with the Company for any reason), Employee will immediately deliver to CME (i) all property of the Employer that is then in Employee's possession, custody or control, including, without limitation, all keys, access cards, credit cards, computer hardware (including but not limited to any hard drives, diskettes, laptop computers and personal data assistants and the contents thereof, as well as any passwords or codes needed to operate any such hardware), computer software and programs, data, materials, papers, books, files, documents, records, policies, client and customer information and lists, marketing information, design information, specifications and plans, data base information and lists, mailing lists, notes, and any other property or information that Employee has relating to the Company (whether those materials are in paper or computer-stored form), and (ii) any and all documents or other items containing, summarizing, or describing any Confidential Information, including all originals and copies.
b) For a period of one (1) year following the termination of Employee's employment with CME for any reason, the Employee will not (i) be employed in an executive or managerial capacity by, or (ii) provide, whether as an employee, independent contractor, consultant, or otherwise, any services of an executive or managerial nature or any services similar to those provided by the Employee to CME during Employee's employment with CME to, any exchange, stock depository or clearing organization. Employee acknowledges that the restrictions contained in this Paragraph 2 are necessary to protect CME's legitimate interests in its Confidential Information and customer relationships.
Non-Competition
c) . Upon termination for any reason, Employee shall return to Employer all records, memoranda, notes, plans, reports, computer tapes and equipment, software and other documents or data which constitute Confidential Information which he may then possess or have under his control (together with all copies thereof) and all credit cards, keys and other materials and equipment which are Employer's property that he has in his possession or control. If, at any time of enforcement of this Section 7, a court holds that the restrictions stated herein are unreasonable, the parties hereto agree that a maximum period, scope or geographical area reasonable under the circumstances shall be substituted for the stated period, scope or area and that the court shall be allowed to revise the restrictions contained herein to cover the maximum period, scope and area permitted by law.
General
(a) Arbitration hearings will be conducted by the American Arbitration Association (AAA). Except as modified herein, arbitration hearings will be conducted in accordance with AAA's rules.
(b) State and federal laws contain statutes of limitation which prescribe the time frames within which parties must file a law suit to have their disputes resolved through the court system. These same statutes of limitation will apply in determining the time frame during which the parties must file a request for arbitration.
(c) If Employee seeks arbitration, Employee shall submit a filing fee to the AAA in an amount equal to the lesser of the filing fee charged in the state or federal court in Chicago, Illinois. The AAA will bill Employer for the balance of the filing and arbitrator's fees.
(d) The arbitrator shall have the same authority to award (and shall be limited to awarding) any remedy or relief that a court of competent jurisdiction could award, including compensatory damages, attorney fees, punitive damages and reinstatement. Employer and Employee may be represented by legal counsel or any other individual at their own expense during an arbitration hearing.
(e) Judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.
(f) Except as necessary in court proceedings to enforce this arbitration provision or an award rendered hereunder, or to obtain interim relief, neither a party nor an arbitrator may disclose the existence, content or results of any arbitration hereunder without the prior written consent of CME and Employee.
If to CME, to:
Craig S. Donohue Chief Executive Officer CME 20 South Wacker Drive Chicago, IL 60606 (312) 930-3100 (tel) (312) 930-3209 (fax)
With a copy to: Kathleen M. Cronin Managing Director, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary CME 20 South Wacker Drive Chicago, IL 60606 (312) 930-3488 (tel) (312) 930-3323 (fax)
If to Employee, to:
John P. Davidson 133 Brewster Road Scarsdale, New York 10583
(914) 723-3911 (tel)
(914) 723-1265 (fax)
Except for CME policies and other programs, benefits, and exhibits otherwise referenced herein, this Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes and preempts any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or between the parties, written or oral, which may have related in any manner to the subject matter hereof. No other agreement or amendment to this Agreement shall be binding upon either party including, without limitation, any agreement or amendment made hereafter unless in writing, signed by both parties.
15)
Entire Agreement
.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
Its: Chief Executive Officer
CME offers a competitive relocation assistance policy to ease the transition an employee may encounter in relocating to the Chicago area. Accordingly, CME will reimburse you for certain relocation expenses related to your move, as described below. To be reimbursed, all relocation expenses must be incurred by 6/30/2008.
Reimbursable Expenses
: If you must begin work before you have had an opportunity to find permanent housing in the Chicago area, CME will reimburse you for the reasonable cost of renting a 2 bedroom apartment (furnished or unfurnished), not to exceed $3000 per month for a period of up to fourteen months. If you have not moved your own car to Chicago, we will also reimburse you for the reasonable costs of renting a car during this period.
Temporary Housing
: Up to a maximum of $13,000, CME will reimburse you for basic moving services, including packing and unpacking of normal household goods, appliance servicing, insurance coverage for full replacement value, and other related expenses, including the temporary (less than six months) storage of your household items before or after your move. (CME will not pay for the moving of airplanes, boats, recreational vehicles, utility sheds, firewood, more than three vehicles or other items of excessive bulk.)
Moving of Household Goods
Moving some personal valuables requires that you identify, or declare them specifically, so that your relocation coordinator can get special permission and make insurance arrangements. They include jewelry, furs, money, animals, fine art, antiques, securities or collectibles. If you fail to declare those items, insurance will not cover any expenses related to their loss. Please ensure that you make all required declarations because the CME will not reimburse you for any losses associated with your move. (This expense was not in the original agreement.)
Special Note About Insurance:
CME will authorize three paid moving days, in addition to any vacation or personal days for which you might be eligible, to allow you to complete your physical move and get settled in your new residence.
Moving Days:
Miscellaneous Allowance: CME will provide an allowance of $5,000 for miscellaneous expenses associated with setting up your new household. This includes items such as cable installation or hook-up, driver's license fees and license plates, vehicle stickers or providing window or floor coverings in your new residence. This allowance is available to you once you have closed on your new home. Please provide a copy of your closing documents on your new home to obtain this allowance.
Similarly, if you prefer to rent, the CME will provide an allowance of $2,500 for miscellaneous expenses. This amount may be applied toward your security deposit or other expenses associated with setting up your residence. Please provide a copy of your signed lease to obtain this allowance.
Reimbursement Procedures
To be eligible for reimbursement of the above expenses, you must complete an expense report and submit all documentation and original receipts to the Organizational Development Division for processing.
Your Repayment Obligations
If you voluntarily leave CME within one year after your move, you must reimburse CME for all of the payments made as part of your relocation.
Return Trips Home
CME will reimburse you for reasonable airfare and miscellaneous expenses (coach class airfare or mileage) for you. Please note that CME has a preferred travel agency that will need to be used to arrange travel accommodations.
Tax Liability Assistance
The Internal Revenue Service requires that reimbursement for some relocation expenses be included in your gross income. This includes expenses the company reimburses directly to you for house hunting trips and return trips home, for example. It includes any reimbursement, which the IRS views as non-deductible (i.e., taxable) expenses.
CME will make additional payments to the Internal Revenue Service and state taxing authorities to compensate for taxes on non-deductible moving expenses. This is called the tax liability assistance, also known as "gross up". To be eligible, you must be employed through the end of the calendar year in which you incurred the relocation expenses.


