FILE:CME/CME-8K-20070820145423.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
CME Group Inc., a Delaware corporation ("CME Group"), on August 16, 2007 entered into a commercial paper program for the issuance from time to time of unsecured commercial paper notes (the "Notes") in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3.0 billion outstanding at any time, executing a Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement (the with Lehman Brothers Inc. ("Lehman"), as Dealer, and a Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement with Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc. (as Dealer for Notes with maturities up to 270 days) ("MLMM") and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (as Dealer for Notes with maturities over 270 days) ("Merrill Lynch"). CME Group is to use the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes (1) to fund (a) CME Groups current tender offer for certain shares of its common stock and (b) fees and expenses relating to the tender offer (for which Lehman is acting as the lead dealer manager) and to CME Groups merger with CBOT Holdings Inc. (in connection with which Lehman acted as a financial ad visor to CME Group) and (2) for other general corporation purposes. The commercial paper program is backstopped by CME Groups 364-day revolving loan facility, dated as of July 27, 2007, with various lenders and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., an affiliate of Lehman, as agent for such lenders (the "Bridge Credit Facility"). The Bridge Credit Facility, which provides for revolving loans of up to $3.0 billion, is described in, and included as an exhibit to, CME Groups Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 1, 2007. The two Commercial Paper Dealer Agreements set forth the terms and conditions under which Lehman, MLMM and Merrill Lynch will either purchase from CME Group or arrange for the sale by CME Group of Notes in transactions exempt from registration under federal and state securities laws. The Commercial Paper Dealer Agreements contain customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnification provisions. Under the Comme rcial Paper Dealer Agreements, the maturities of the Notes may vary, but may not exceed 397 days, and the Notes must be in a minimum denomination of $250,000. The Notes may be issued and sold, at the option of CME Group, either at par or at a discount to par and, if interest bearing, with interest at fixed or variable rates based on market conditions at the time of the issuance of the Notes. JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association ("JP Morgan"), is acting as issuing and paying agent for the commercial paper program under the terms of an Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement (the "Agency Agreement"), dated August 16, 2007, with CME Group. The Agency Agreement provides for JP Morgan to act as CME Groups agent in connection with the issuance and payment of the Notes and contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnification provisions. Lehman, MLMM, Merrill Lynch and JP Morgan, and their affiliates, have performed or may perform in the future various commercial ban king, investment banking and other financial advisory services for CME Group and its affiliates for which they have received or may receive customary fees and expenses. The foregoing description of the Commercial Paper Dealer Agreements and the Agency Agreement is only a summary, does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Commercial Paper Dealer Agreements and the Agency Agreement, which are filed as Exhibit 10.1, Exhibit 10.2 and Exhibit 10.3 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information related to CME Groups $3.0 billion commercial paper program discussed in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference under this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith: 10.1 Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2007, between CME Group Inc., as Issuer, and Lehman Brothers Inc., as Dealer. 10.2 Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2007, among CME Group Inc., as Issuer, and Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc., as Dealer for Notes with maturities up to 270 days, and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Dealer for Notes with maturities over 270 days. 10.3 Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2007, between the CME Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as issuing and paying agent.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
Concerning Notes to be issued pursuant to an Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement dated as of August 16, 2007 between the Issuer and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Issuing and Paying Agent
Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement
4(2) Program
This agreement (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time, the "Agreement") sets forth the understandings between the Issuer and the Dealer, each named on the cover page hereof, in connection with the issuance and sale by the Issuer of its short-term promissory notes (the "Notes") through the Dealer.
Certain terms used in this Agreement are defined in Section 6 hereof.
The Addendum to this Agreement, and any Annexes or Exhibits described in this Agreement or such Addendum, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement and made fully a part hereof.
The Issuer represents and warrants that each acceptance by the Issuer of an offer for the purchase of Notes shall be deemed an affirmation by the Issuer that its representations and warranties set forth in this Article 2 are true and correct at the time of such acceptance:
The Issuer covenants and agrees that:
(b) In the event that the Issuer gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a) and the Dealer notifies the Issuer that it then has Notes it is holding in inventory, the Issuer agrees promptly to supplement or amend the Private Placement Memorandum so that the Private Placement Memorandum, as amended or supplemented, shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and the Issuer shall make such supplement or amendment available to the Dealer.
(c) In the event that (i) the Issuer gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a), (ii) the Dealer does not notify the Issuer that it is then holding Notes in inventory and (iii) the Issuer chooses not to promptly amend or supplement the Private Placement Memorandum in the manner described in clause (b) above, then all solicitations and sales of Notes shall be suspended until such time as the Issuer has so amended or supplemented the Private Placement Memorandum, and made such amendment or supplement available to the Dealer.
(d) Without limiting the generality of Section 4.3(a), the Issuer shall review, amend and supplement the Private Placement Memorandum on a periodic basis, but no less than at least once annually, to incorporate current financial information of the Issuer to the extent necessary to ensure that the information provided in the Private Placement Memorandum is accurate and complete.
5. Indemnification and Contribution.
6. Definitions.
7. General
(b) The Issuer hereby irrevocably accepts and submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of each of the aforesaid courts in personam, generally and unconditionally, for itself and in respect of its properties, assets and revenues, with respect to any suit, action or proceeding in connection with or arising out of this Agreement or the Notes or the offer and sale of the Notes.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date and year first above written.
Addendum
The following additional clauses shall apply to the Agreement and be deemed a part thereof.
For the Issuer:
Attention of: Chief Financial Officer (Telecopy No. (312) 930-3016)
Address: 20 South Wacker Drive
Attention: Chief Financial Officer
Fax number: (312) 930-3016
with copies to Treasurer (Telecopy No. (312) 930-3016) and to General Counsel (Telecopy No. (312) 930-4556)
For the Dealer:
Address: 745 Seventh Avenue, 4th floor, New York, New York 10019-6801
Attention: Product Management-Commercial Paper
Telephone number: 212-526-0731
Fax number: 646-758-4641
Model Opinion of Counsel to Issuer
August 16, 2007
To the Addressees listed on hereto
Schedule I
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am the General Counsel of CME Group Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and, as such, I am furnishing this opinion in connection with each of (i) that certain Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2007 (the ""), between the Company, as issuer, and Lehman Brothers Inc., as dealer (the ""), (ii) that certain Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2007 (the "" and, together with the Lehman Dealer Agreement, collectively, the ""), among the Company, as issuer, and Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc., as dealer for Notes (as defined in the Merrill Dealer Agreement) with maturities up to 270 days (""), and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as dealer for Notes (as defined in the Merrill Dealer Agreement) with maturities over 270 days ("" and, together with MLMM, collectively, the ""), (iii) that certain Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2007 (the ""), between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as issuing and paying agent (the ""), and (iv) the Master Note dated August 16, 2007 (the ""). The Lehman Dealer Agreement, the Merrill Dealer Agreement, the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement and the Master Note shall hereafter be referred to collectively as the "." This opinion is being delivered pursuant to Section 3.6 of each Dealer Agreement.
Company
Lehman Dealer Agreement
Lehman Dealer
Merrill Dealer Agreement
Dealer Agreements
MLMM
MLPF&S
Merrill Dealer
Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement
Issuing and Paying Agent
Master Note
Transaction Agreements
In my examination, I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, including endorsements, the legal capacity and competency of natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to me as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as facsimile, electronic, certified or photostatic copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such copies. When relevant facts were not independently established, I have relied upon statements of governmental officials and upon representations made in or pursuant to the Transaction Agreements, certificates of appropriate representatives of the Company.
In rendering the opinions set forth herein, I have examined and relied upon originals or copies of the Transaction Agreements and such other documents as I have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinions set forth below.
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings herein as ascribed thereto in the Dealer Agreements. As used herein, "" means those laws, rules and regulations which, in my experience, are normally applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, without my having made any special investigation as to the applicability of any specific law, rule or regulation, and which are not the subject of a specific opinion herein referring expressly to a particular law or laws.
Applicable Laws
I am a member of the Bar of the State of Illinois and the foregoing opinions are limited to matters involving the Federal laws of the United States of America and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and I do not express any opinion as to any other laws. I note that the Transaction Agreements purport to be governed by the laws of the State of New York and I express no opinion with respect to the laws of the State of New York.
Based upon the foregoing and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, I am of the opinion that:
1. The Company is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
2. The Company has all the requisite corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each of the Transaction Agreements. The execution and delivery of each of the Transaction Agreements and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of the Company. Each of each Dealer Agreement and the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
3. In the event that an Illinois court were to apply the substantive laws of the State of Illinois, notwithstanding the choice of law of the parties set forth in the Transaction Agreements, and without regard to choice of law principles, each of the Transaction Agreements constitutes and, in the case of the Notes, when issued in accordance with the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement and paid for by the purchasers thereof, will constitute, the valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms under the Applicable Laws of the State of Illinois.
4. The execution and delivery by the Company of each of the Transaction Agreements and the performance by the Company of its obligations under each of the Transaction Agreements, each in accordance with its terms, do not (i) conflict with the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company, (ii) constitute a violation of, or a default under any material agreements or instruments known to me (after due inquiry) to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound or to which it is subject or result in the creation or imposition of any lien upon any property of the Company pursuant to the terms of any such material agreement or instrument or (iii) violate any order, writ, injunction or decree known to me (after due inquiry) of any court or governmental authority or agency applicable to the Company.
5. The offer, sale and delivery of the Notes in the manner contemplated by the Dealer Agreements do not require registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or qualification of any indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (it being understood that I express no opinion as to any subsequent resale of any Note); and the Notes will rank at least with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company.
pari
passu
6. No consent, approval or authorization of, or filing, recording or registration with, any governmental authority, which has not been obtained or taken and is not in full force and effect, is required to authorize, or is required in connection with, the execution or delivery of any of the Transaction Agreements by the Company or the enforceability of any of the Transaction Agreements against the Company, except as may be required by the securities or Blue Sky laws of the various states in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes.
7. To the best of my knowledge, except as disclosed in the Company's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, there is no litigation or governmental proceeding pending or threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries which would have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Transaction Agreements.
8. The Company is not an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
My opinions are subject to the following assumptions and qualifications:
(a) enforcement may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in equity or at law);
(b) I have assumed that each of the Transaction Agreements constitutes the valid and binding obligation of each party to such Transaction Agreement (other than the Company to the extent expressly set forth herein) enforceable against such other party in accordance with its terms;
(c) I express no opinion as to the effect on the opinions expressed herein of (i) the compliance or non-compliance of any party (other than the Company to the extent expressly set forth herein) to the Transaction Agreements with any state, federal or other laws or regulations applicable to any of them or (ii) the legal or regulatory status or the nature of the business of any party (other than the Company to the extent expressly set forth herein);
(d) I express no opinion as to the enforceability of any rights to contribution or indemnification provided for in the Transaction Agreements which are violative of the public policy underlying any law, rule or regulation (including any federal or state securities law, rule or regulation);
(e) I express no opinion as to the applicability or effect of any fraudulent transfer, preference or similar law on the Transaction Agreements or any transactions contemplated thereby;
(f) I express no opinion on the enforceability of any provision in a Transaction Agreement purporting to prohibit, restrict or condition the assignment of rights under such Transaction Agreement to the extent such restriction on assignability is governed by the Uniform Commercial Code;
(g) I express no opinion as to the enforceability of any provision of any Transaction Agreement to the extent it purports to waive any objection a person may have that a suit, action or proceeding has been brought in an inconvenient forum or a forum lacking subject matter jurisdiction;
(h) for purposes of my opinion set forth in paragraph 5 above, I have assumed (a) the accuracy of the representations and warranties and compliance with the agreements made by the Dealer in the Dealer Agreements (b) compliance by the Dealer with the offering and transfer procedures and restrictions required by the Dealer Agreements including, without limitation, the delivery to each purchaser of the Notes of an offering memorandum containing a legend restricting offers, sales and resales of the Notes in the form required by the Dealer Agreements and (c) the accuracy of the representations and warranties made in accordance with such offering memorandum by the initial purchasers of the Notes; and
(i) I express no opinion as to the enforceability of Section 7.3(a) of either Dealer Agreement.
At the request of the Company, this opinion letter is, pursuant to Section 3.6 of each Dealer Agreement, provided to you by me in my capacity as in-house counsel of the Company and may not be relied upon by any person for any purpose other than in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements without, in each instance, my prior written consent. No opinion is implied or is to be inferred beyond the opinions expressly stated above. I assume no obligation to update this letter for events, changes in law or circumstances occurring after the date of this opinion.
Very truly yours,
Schedule I to Opinion
Lehman Brothers Inc., as Dealer for the Notes (under and as defined in the Lehman Dealer Agreement)
Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc., as Dealer for Notes (as defined in the Merrill Dealer Agreement) with maturities up to 270 days
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Dealer for Notes (as defined in the Merrill Dealer Agreement) with maturities over 270 days
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Issuing and Paying Agent
Exhibit A
Form of Legend for Private Placement Memorandum and Notes
THE NOTES HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "ACT"), OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAW, AND OFFERS AND SALES THEREOF MAY BE MADE ONLY IN COMPLIANCE WITH AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF A NOTE, THE PURCHASER WILL BE DEEMED TO REPRESENT THAT (I) IT HAS BEEN AFFORDED AN OPPORTUNITY TO INVESTIGATE MATTERS RELATING TO THE ISSUER AND THE NOTES, (II) IT IS NOT ACQUIRING SUCH NOTE WITH A VIEW TO ANY DISTRIBUTION THEREOF AND (III) IT IS EITHER (A)(1) AN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR THAT IS AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 501(a) UNDER THE ACT (AN "INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR" AND (2)(i) PURCHASING NOTES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT, (ii) A BANK (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 3(a)(2) OF THE ACT) OR A SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION OR OTHER INSTITUTION (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 3(a)(5)(A) OF THE ACT) ACTING IN ITS INDIVIDUAL OR FIDUCIARY CAPACITY OR (iii) A FIDUCIARY OR AGENT (OTHER THAN A U.S. BANK OR SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION) PURCHASING NOTES FOR ONE OR MORE ACCOUNTS EACH OF WHICH ACCOUNTS IS SUCH AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR; OR (B) A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER ("QIB") WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE ACT THAT IS ACQUIRING NOTES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR ONE OR MORE ACCOUNTS, EACH OF WHICH ACCOUNTS IS A QIB; AND THE PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT IS AWARE THAT THE SELLER MAY RELY UPON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF A NOTE, THE PURCHASER THEREOF SHALL ALSO BE DEEMED TO AGREE THAT ANY RESALE OR OTHER TRANSFER THEREOF WILL BE MADE ONLY (A) IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT, EITHER (1) TO THE ISSUER OR TO A PLACEMENT AGENT DESIGNATED BY THE ISSUER AS A PLACEMENT AGENT FOR THE NOTES (COLLECTIVELY, THE "PLACEMENT AGENTS"), NONE OF WHICH SHALL HAVE ANY OBLIGATION TO ACQUIRE SUCH NOTE, (2) THROUGH A PLACEMENT AGENT TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR OR A QIB, OR (3) TO A QIB IN A TRANSACTION THAT MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A AND (B) IN MINIMUM AMOUNTS OF $250,000.
Exhibit B
Further Provisions Relating to Indemnification
Exhibit C
Statement of Terms for Interest  Bearing Commercial Paper Notes of CME Group Inc.
THE PROVISIONS SET FORTH BELOW ARE QUALIFIED TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE BY THE TRANSACTION SPECIFIC [PRICING] [PRIVATE PLACEMENT MEMORANDUM] SUPPLEMENT (THE "SUPPLEMENT") (IF ANY) SENT TO EACH PURCHASER AT THE TIME OF THE TRANSACTION.
(b) "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, executive order or regulation to be closed in New York City and, with respect to LIBOR Notes (as defined below) is also a London Business Day. "London Business Day" means, a day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
(b) The Supplement sent to each holder of such Note will describe the following terms: (i) whether such Note is a Fixed Rate Note or a Floating Rate Note and whether such Note is an Original Issue Discount Note (as defined below); (ii) the date on which such Note will be issued (the "Issue Date"); (iii) the Stated Maturity Date (as defined below); (iv) if such Note is a Fixed Rate Note, the rate per annum at which such Note will bear interest, if any, and the Interest Payment Dates; (v) if such Note is a Floating Rate Note, the Base Rate, the Index Maturity, the Interest Reset Dates, the Interest Payment Dates and the Spread and/or Spread Multiplier, if any (all as defined below), and any other terms relating to the particular method of calculating the interest rate for such Note; and (vi) any other terms applicable specifically to such Note. "Original Issue Discount Note" means a Note which has a stated redemption price at the Stated Maturity Date that exceeds its Issue Price by more than a specified de minimis amount and which the Supplement indicates will be an "Original Issue Discount Note".
(c) Each Fixed Rate Note will bear interest from its Issue Date at the rate per annum specified in the Supplement until the principal amount thereof is paid or made available for payment. Interest on each Fixed Rate Note will be payable on the dates specified in the Supplement (each an "Interest Payment Date" for a Fixed Rate Note) and on the Maturity Date (as defined below). Interest on Fixed Rate Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date of a Fixed Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest will be payable on the next succeeding Business Day, and no additional interest will accrue in respect of the payment made on that next succeeding Business Day.
(d) The interest rate on each Floating Rate Note for each Interest Reset Period (as defined below) will be determined by reference to an interest rate basis (a "Base Rate") plus or minus a number of basis points (one basis point equals one-hundredth of a percentage point) (the "Spread"), if any, and/or multiplied by a certain percentage (the "Spread Multiplier"), if any, until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment. The Supplement will designate which of the following Base Rates is applicable to the related Floating Rate Note: (a) the CD Rate (a "CD Rate Note"), (b) the Commercial Paper Rate (a "Commercial Paper Rate Note"), (c) the Federal Funds Rate (a "Federal Funds Rate Note"), (d) LIBOR (a "LIBOR Note"), (e) the Prime Rate (a "Prime Rate Note"), (f) the Treasury Rate (a "Treasury Rate Note") or (g) such other Base Rate as may be specified in such Supplement.
The rate of interest on each Floating Rate Note will be reset daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly or semi-annually (the "Interest Reset Period"). The date or dates on which interest will be reset (each an "Interest Reset Date") will be, unless otherwise specified in the Supplement, in the case of Floating Rate Notes which reset daily, each Business Day, in the case of Floating Rate Notes (other than Treasury Rate Notes) that reset weekly, the Wednesday of each week; in the case of Treasury Rate Notes that reset weekly, the Tuesday of each week; in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset monthly, the third Wednesday of each month; in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset quarterly, the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December; and in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset semiannually, the third Wednesday of the two months specified in the Supplement. If any Interest Reset Date for any Floating Rate Note is not a Business Day, such Interest Reset Date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that in the case of a LIBOR Note, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Reset Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. Interest on each Floating Rate Note will be payable monthly, quarterly or semiannually (the "Interest Payment Period") and on the Maturity Date. Unless otherwise specified in the Supplement, and except as provided below, the date or dates on which interest will be payable (each an "Interest Payment Date" for a Floating Rate Note) will be, in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a monthly Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of each month; in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a quarterly Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December; and in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a semiannual Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of the two months specified in the Supplement. In addition, the Maturity Date will also be an Interest Payment Date.
If any Interest Payment Date for any Floating Rate Note (other than an Interest Payment Date occurring on the Maturity Date) would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that in the case of a LIBOR Note, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. If the Maturity Date of a Floating Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of principal and interest will be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after such maturity.
Interest payments on each Interest Payment Date for Floating Rate Notes will include accrued interest from and including the Issue Date or from and including the last date in respect of which interest has been paid, as the case may be, to, but excluding, such Interest Payment Date. On the Maturity Date, the interest payable on a Floating Rate Note will include interest accrued to, but excluding, the Maturity Date. Accrued interest will be calculated by multiplying the principal amount of a Floating Rate Note by an accrued interest factor. This accrued interest factor will be computed by adding the interest factors calculated for each day in the period for which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor (expressed as a decimal) for each such day will be computed by dividing the interest rate applicable to such day by 360, in the cases where the Base Rate is the CD Rate, Commercial Paper Rate, Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR or Prime Rate, or by the actual number of days in the year, in the case where the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate. The interest rate in effect on each day will be (i) if such day is an Interest Reset Date, the interest rate with respect to the Interest Determination Date (as defined below) pertaining to such Interest Reset Date, or (ii) if such day is not an Interest Reset Date, the interest rate with respect to the Interest Determination Date pertaining to the next preceding Interest Reset Date, subject in either case to any adjustment by a Spread and/or a Spread Multiplier.
The "Interest Determination Date" where the Base Rate is the CD Rate or the Commercial Paper Rate will be the second Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is the Federal Funds Rate or the Prime Rate will be the Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is LIBOR will be the second London Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate will be the day of the week in which such Interest Reset Date falls when Treasury Bills are normally auctioned. Treasury Bills are normally sold at auction on Monday of each week, unless that day is a legal holiday, in which case the auction is held on the following Tuesday or the preceding Friday. If an auction is so held on the preceding Friday, such Friday will be the Interest Determination Date pertaining to the Interest Reset Date occurring in the next succeeding week.
The "Index Maturity" is the period to maturity of the instrument or obligation from which the applicable Base Rate is calculated.
The "Calculation Date," where applicable, shall be the earlier of (i) the tenth calendar day following the applicable Interest Determination Date or (ii) the Business Day preceding the applicable Interest Payment Date or Maturity Date.
All times referred to herein reflect New York City time, unless otherwise specified.
The Issuer shall specify in writing to the Issuing and Paying Agent which party will be the calculation agent (the "Calculation Agent") with respect to the Floating Rate Notes. The Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate then in effect and, if determined, the interest rate which will become effective on the next Interest Reset Date with respect to such Floating Rate Note to the Issuing and Paying Agent as soon as the interest rate with respect to such Floating Rate Note has been determined and as soon as practicable after any change in such interest rate.
All percentages resulting from any calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point, with five-one millionths of a percentage point rounded upwards. For example, 9.876545% (or .09876545) would be rounded to 9.87655% (or         .0987655). All dollar amounts used in or resulting from any calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded, in the case of U.S. dollars, to the nearest cent or, in the case of a foreign currency, to the nearest unit (with one-half cent or unit being rounded upwards).
CD Rate Notes
"CD Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date for negotiable certificates of deposit having the Index Maturity as published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "FRB") in "Statistical Release H.15(519), Selected Interest Rates" or any successor publication of the FRB ("H.15(519)") under the heading "CDs (Secondary Market)".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the CD Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date set forth in the daily update of H.15(519), available through the world wide website of the FRB at http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/Update, or any successor site or publication or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate ("H.15 Daily Update") under the caption "CDs (Secondary Market)".
If such rate is not published in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the CD Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the secondary market offered rates as of 10:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date of three leading nonbank dealers in negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit of major United States money center banks of the highest credit standing in the market for negotiable certificates of deposit with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity in the denomination of $5,000,000.
If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, the CD Rate will remain the CD Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
Commercial Paper Rate Notes
"Commercial Paper Rate" means the Money Market Yield (calculated as described below) of the rate on any Interest Determination Date for commercial paper having the Index Maturity, as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, then the Commercial Paper Rate will be the Money Market Yield of the rate on such Interest Determination Date for commercial paper of the Index Maturity as published in H.15 Daily Update under the heading "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial".
If by 3:00 p.m. on such Calculation Date such rate is not published in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update, then the Calculation Agent will determine the Commercial Paper Rate to be the Money Market Yield of the arithmetic mean of the offered rates as of 11:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date of three leading dealers of U.S. dollar commercial paper in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for commercial paper of the Index Maturity placed for an industrial issuer whose bond rating is "AA," or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned above, the Commercial Paper Rate with respect to such Interest Determination Date will remain the Commercial Paper Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
Federal Funds Rate Notes
"Federal Funds Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date for federal funds as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Federal Funds (Effective)" and displayed on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on page 120 (or any other page as may replace the specified page on that service) ("Telerate Page 120").
If the above rate does not appear on Telerate Page 120 or is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update under the heading "Federal Funds/(Effective)".
If such rate is not published as described above by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the Federal Funds Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight U.S. dollar federal funds arranged by each of three leading brokers of Federal Funds transactions in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent prior to 9:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date.
If the brokers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned above, the Federal Funds Rate will remain the Federal Funds Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
LIBOR Notes
The London Interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date, the rate for deposits in U.S. dollars having the Index Maturity that appears on the Designated LIBOR Page as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date.
If no rate appears, LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date at which deposits in U.S. dollars are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in such market selected by the Calculation Agent for a term equal to the Index Maturity and in principal amount equal to an amount that in the Calculation Agent's judgment is representative for a single transaction in U.S. dollars in such market at such time (a "Representative Amount"). The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such interest period will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., in New York City, on such Interest Determination Date by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a term equal to the Index Maturity and in a Representative Amount; provided, however, that if fewer than three banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are providing such quotations, the then existing LIBOR rate will remain in effect for such Interest Payment Period.
"Designated LIBOR Page" means the display designated as page "3750" on Moneyline Telerate (or such other page as may replace the 3750 page on that service or such other service or services as may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association for the purposes of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits).
Prime Rate Notes
"Prime Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Bank Prime Loan".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) prior to 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, then the Prime Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update opposite the caption "Bank Prime Loan".
If the rate is not published prior to 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update, then the Calculation Agent will determine the Prime Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the rates of interest publicly announced by each bank that appears on the Reuters Screen US PRIME1 Page (as defined below) as such bank's prime rate or base lending rate as of 11:00 a.m., on that Interest Determination Date.
If fewer than four such rates referred to above are so published by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the Prime Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the prime rates or base lending rates quoted on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by 360 as of the close of business on such Interest Determination Date by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.
If the banks selected are not quoting as mentioned above, the Prime Rate will remain the Prime Rate in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
"Reuters Screen US PRIME1 Page" means the display designated as page "US PRIME1" on the Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service (or such other page as may replace the US PRIME1 page on that service for the purpose of displaying prime rates or base lending rates of major United States banks).
Treasury Rate Notes
"Treasury Rate" means:
(1) the rate from the auction held on the Interest Determination Date (the "Auction") of direct obligations of the United States ("Treasury Bills") having the Index Maturity specified in the Supplement under the caption "INVESTMENT RATE" on the display on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on page 56 (or any other page as may replace that page on that service) ("Telerate Page 56") or page 57 (or any other page as may replace that page on that service) ("Telerate Page 57"), or
(2) if the rate referred to in clause (1) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield (as defined below) of the rate for the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Auction High", or
(3) if the rate referred to in clause (2) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the auction rate of the applicable Treasury Bills as announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or
(4) if the rate referred to in clause (3) is not so announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or if the Auction is not held, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15(519) under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market", or
(5) if the rate referred to in clause (4) not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market", or
(6) if the rate referred to in clause (5) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Bond Equivalent Yield of the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of approximately 3:30 p.m. on that Interest Determination Date, of three primary United States government securities dealers selected by the Calculation Agent, for the issue of Treasury Bills with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified in the Supplement, or
(7) if the dealers so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in clause (6), the Treasury Rate in effect on the particular Interest Determination Date.
"Bond Equivalent Yield" means a yield (expressed as a percentage) calculated in accordance with the following formula:
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for Treasury Bills quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal, "N" refers to 365 or 366, as the case may be, and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the applicable Interest Reset Period.
Model Certificate as to Resolutions
CME Group Inc.
I, Kathleen M. Cronin, the Secretary of CME Group Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Issuer"), do hereby certify, in connection with the issuance and sale of short-term promissory notes under the Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated as of August 16, 2007 (the "Agreement", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined) between the Issuer and Lehman Brothers Inc. (the "Dealer"), that:
The following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Issuer and such resolutions have not been amended, modified or revoked and are in full force and effect on the date hereof:
WHEREAS, it is proposed that the Company enter into a Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement (the ""), to be between the Company, as issuer, and Lehman Brothers Inc. (""), as dealer (in such capacity, the ""), in connection with the sale of commercial paper notes on behalf of the Company; and
Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement
Lehman Brothers
Dealer
WHEREAS, the Board deems it advisable and in the best interests of the Company and the stockholders of the Company that the Company enter into...the Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board hereby determines that it is advisable and in the best interests of the Company to enter into the Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement; and be it further;
RESOLVED, that Craig S. Donohue, Chief Executive Officer, James E. Parisi, Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer, Kathleen M. Cronin, Managing Director, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and James A. Pribel, Director and Treasurer (collectively, the "Authorized Officers" and each, an "Authorized Officer"), be, and each of them (acting alone or jointly) is hereby, authorized, empowered and directed, in the name and on behalf of the Company, to (i) borrow for the use and benefit of the Company from time to time through the issuance of commercial paper notes, (ii) execute such commercial paper notes in the name and on behalf of the Company and issue such notes in accordance with the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement referred to below, (iii) execute and deliver (A) the Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement, substantially on the terms and conditions described to the Board with such changes as the Authorized Officers may approve, providing, among other things, for the sale of commercial paper notes on behalf of the Company and the indemnification of the Dealer in connection therewith, (B) an Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement between the Company and an issuing and paying agent selected by the Authorized Officers and (C) a Letter of Representations addressed to The Depository Trust Company, (iv) execute and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission Form D and any and all amendments thereto as may be required pursuant to the Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement, (v) delegate to any other officers or employees of the Company authority to give instructions to the Dealer pursuant to the Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement and (vi) do such acts and execute such other agreements and instruments as may be necessary and proper to effect the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation, by (A) executing additional commercial paper dealer agreements and issuing and paying agency agreements with Lehman Brothers and one or more additional dealers, (B) amending, restating, supplementing or otherwise modifying the agreements and instruments referred to herein and (C) appointing additional dealers and issuing and paying agents and successors to any of the parties named above; and be it further
RESOLVED, that each of the Authorized Officers of the Company be, and each of them (acting alone or jointly) is hereby, authorized, empowered and directed on behalf of the Company to cause to be prepared, negotiate, execute and deliver to any person or entity deemed appropriate by such officer or officers, any and all agreements, certificates, documents, instruments or undertakings of any kind and nature whatsoever to evidence the issuance of the commercial paper notes, any commercial paper dealer agreements, any issuing and paying agency agreements or any related documents, to establish, facilitate or comply with the terms and conditions thereof, all as may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, such agreements, certificates, documents, instruments and undertakings to be in such form and to contain such terms and conditions as may be approved by such officer or officers executing the same, the authorization and approval of the Company to be conclusively evidenced by such officer's or officers' execution thereof, and to do and perform, or cause to be done and performed, all acts, deeds and things, in the name and on behalf of the Company, or otherwise as such officer or officers may deem necessary or appropriate; and be it further
RESOLVED, that each of the Authorized Officers of the Company be, and each of them (acting alone or jointly) is hereby, authorized and directed to take all such other action as such officer or officers may deem necessary or advisable to carry out and effectuate the intent of the foregoing resolutions[.]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have signed this certificate the day of August, 2007.
     
     
Name: Kathleen M. Cronin
Title: Secretary

Exhibit 10.2
Concerning Notes to be issued pursuant to an Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement dated as of August 16, 2007 between the Issuer and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Issuing and Paying Agent
Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement
4(2) Program
This agreement (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time, the "Agreement") sets forth the understandings among CME Group Inc., as issuer (the "Issuer"), and Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc., as dealer for Notes (as defined below) with maturities up to 270 days ("MLMM"), and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as dealer for Notes with maturities over 270 days ("MLPF&S" and, together with MLMM, collectively, the "Dealer"), in connection with the issuance and sale by the Issuer of its short-term promissory notes (the "Notes") through the Dealer.
Certain terms used in this Agreement are defined in Section 6 hereof.
The Addendum to this Agreement, and any Annexes or Exhibits described in this Agreement or such Addendum, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement and made fully a part hereof.
The Issuer represents and warrants that each acceptance by the Issuer of an offer for the purchase of Notes shall be deemed an affirmation by the Issuer that its representations and warranties set forth in this Article 2 are true and correct at the time of such acceptance:
The Issuer covenants and agrees that:
(b) In the event that the Issuer gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a) and the Dealer notifies the Issuer that it then has Notes it is holding in inventory, the Issuer agrees promptly to supplement or amend the Private Placement Memorandum so that the Private Placement Memorandum, as amended or supplemented, shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and the Issuer shall make such supplement or amendment available to the Dealer.
(c) In the event that (i) the Issuer gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a), (ii) the Dealer does not notify the Issuer that it is then holding Notes in inventory and (iii) the Issuer chooses not to promptly amend or supplement the Private Placement Memorandum in the manner described in clause (b) above, then all solicitations and sales of Notes shall be suspended until such time as the Issuer has so amended or supplemented the Private Placement Memorandum, and made such amendment or supplement available to the Dealer.
(d) Without limiting the generality of Section 4.3(a), the Issuer shall review, amend and supplement the Private Placement Memorandum on a periodic basis, but no less than at least once annually, to incorporate current financial information of the Issuer to the extent necessary to ensure that the information provided in the Private Placement Memorandum is accurate and complete.
5. Indemnification and Contribution.
6. Definitions.
7. General
(b) The Issuer hereby irrevocably accepts and submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of each of the aforesaid courts in personam, generally and unconditionally, for itself and in respect of its properties, assets and revenues, with respect to any suit, action or proceeding in connection with or arising out of this Agreement or the Notes or the offer and sale of the Notes.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date and year first above written.

Exhibit 10.3
This Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2007, is by and between CME Group Inc. (the ) and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association ().
"Issuer"
"JPMorgan"
1. 
APPOINTMENT AND ACCEPTANCE
The Issuer hereby appoints JPMorgan as its issuing and paying agent in connection with the issuance and payment of certain short-term promissory notes of the Issuer (the ), as further described herein, and JPMorgan agrees to act as such agent upon the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement.
"Notes"
2. 
COMMERCIAL PAPER PROGRAMS
The Issuer may establish one or more commercial paper programs under this Agreement by delivering to JPMorgan a completed program schedule (the ), with respect to such program. JPMorgan has given the Issuer a copy of the current form of Program Schedule and the Issuer shall complete and return its first Program Schedule to JPMorgan prior to or simultaneously with the execution of this Agreement. In the event that any of the information provided in, or attached to, a Program Schedule shall change, the Issuer shall promptly inform JPMorgan of such change in writing.
"Program Schedule"
each
3. 
NOTES
All Notes issued by the Issuer under this Agreement shall be short-term promissory notes, exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as indicated on the Program Schedules, and from applicable state securities laws. The Notes may be placed by dealers (the ) pursuant to Section 4 hereof. Notes shall be issued in either certificated or book-entry form.
"Dealers"
4. 
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES
The Issuer shall deliver to JPMorgan a duly adopted corporate resolution from the Issuer's Board of Directors (or other governing body) authorizing the issuance of Notes under each program established pursuant to this Agreement and a certificate of incumbency, with specimen signatures attached, of those officers, employees and agents of the Issuer authorized to take certain actions with respect to the Notes as provided in this Agreement (each such person is hereinafter referred to as an ). Until JPMorgan receives any subsequent incumbency certificates of the Issuer, JPMorgan shall be entitled to rely on the last incumbency certificate delivered to it for the purpose of determining the Authorized Representatives. The Issuer represents and warrants that each Authorized Representative may appoint other officers, employees and agents of the Issuer (the ), including without limitation any Dealers, to issue instructions to JPMorgan under this Agreement, and take other actions on the Issuer's behalf hereunder, provided that notice of the appointment of each Delegate is delivered to JPMorgan in writing. Each such appointment shall remain in effect unless and until revoked by the Issuer in a written notice to JPMorgan.
"Authorized Representative"
"Delegates"
5. 
CERTIFICATED NOTES
If and when the Issuer intends to issue certificated notes (), the Issuer and JPMorgan shall agree upon the form of such Notes. Thereafter, the Issuer shall from time to time deliver to JPMorgan adequate supplies of Certificated Notes which will be in bearer form, serially numbered, and shall be executed by the manual or facsimile signature of an Authorized Representative. JPMorgan will acknowledge receipt of any supply of Certificated Notes received from the Issuer, noting any exceptions to the shipping manifest or transmittal letter (if any), and will hold the Certificated Notes in safekeeping for the Issuer in accordance with JPMorgan's customary practices. JPMorgan shall not have any liability to the Issuer to determine by whom or by what means a facsimile signature may have been affixed on Certificated Notes, or to determine whether any facsimile or manual signature is genuine, if such facsimile or manual signature resembles the specimen signature attached to the Issuer's certificate of incumbency with respect to such Authorized Representative. Any Certificated Note bearing the manual or facsimile signature of a person who is an Authorized Representative on the date such signature was affixed shall bind the Issuer after completion thereof by JPMorgan, notwithstanding that such person shall have ceased to hold his or her office on the date such Note is countersigned or delivered by JPMorgan.
"Certificated Notes"
6. 
BOOK-ENTRY NOTES
The Issuer's book-entry notes () shall not be issued in physical form, but their aggregate face amount shall be represented by a master note (the ) in the form of Exhibit A executed by the Issuer pursuant to the book-entry commercial paper program of The Depository Trust Company (). JPMorgan shall maintain the Master Note in safekeeping, in accordance with its customary practices, on behalf of Cede & Co., the registered owner thereof and nominee of DTC. As long as Cede & Co. is the registered owner of the Master Note, the beneficial ownership interest therein shall be shown on, and the transfer of ownership thereof shall be effected through, entries on the books maintained by DTC and the books of its direct and indirect participants. The Master Note and the Book-Entry Notes shall be subject to DTC's rules and procedures, as amended from time to time. JPMorgan shall not be liable or responsible for sending transaction statements of any kind to DTC's participants or the beneficial owners of the Book-Entry Notes, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing the records of DTC or its participants with respect to such Notes. In connection with DTC's program, the Issuer understands that as one of the conditions of its participation therein, it shall be necessary for the Issuer and JPMorgan to enter into a Letter of Representations, in the form of Exhibit B hereto, and for DTC to receive and accept such Letter of Representations. In accordance with DTC's program, JPMorgan shall obtain from the CUSIP Service Bureau a written list of CUSIP numbers for Issuer's Book-Entry Notes, and JPMorgan shall deliver such list to DTC. The CUSIP Service Bureau shall bill the Issuer directly for the fee or fees payable for the list of CUSIP numbers for the Issuer's Book-Entry Notes.
"Book-Entry Notes"
"Master Note"
"DTC"
7. 
ISSUANCE INSTRUCTIONS TO JPMORGAN; PURCHASE PAYMENTS
The Issuer understands that all instructions under this Agreement are to be directed to JPMorgan's Commercial Paper Operations Department in accordance with Section 18 hereof. JPMorgan shall provide the Issuer, or, if applicable, the Issuer's Dealers, with access to JPMorgan's Money Market Issuance System or other electronic means (collectively, the ) in order that JPMorgan may receive electronic instructions for the issuance of Notes. Electronic instructions must be transmitted in accordance with the procedures furnished by JPMorgan to the Issuer or its Dealers in connection with the System. These transmissions shall be the equivalent to the giving of a duly authorized written and signed instruction which JPMorgan may act upon without liability. In the event that the System is inoperable at any time, an Authorized Representative or a Delegate may deliver written, telephone or facsimile instructions to JPMorgan, which instructions shall be verified in accordance with any security procedures agreed upon by the parties. JPMorgan shall incur no liability to the Issuer in acting upon instructions believed by JPMorgan in good faith to have been given by an Authorized Representative or a Delegate. In the event that a discrepancy exists between a telephonic instruction and a written confirmation, the telephonic instruction will be deemed the controlling and proper instruction. JPMorgan may electronically record any customary conversations made pursuant to this Agreement, and the Issuer hereby consents to such recordings. All issuance instructions regarding the Notes must be received by 1:00 P.M. New York time in order for the Notes to be issued or delivered on the same day.
"System"
JPMorgan shall not be obligated to credit the Issuer's Account unless and until payment of the purchase price of each Note is received by JPMorgan. From time to time, JPMorgan, in its sole discretion, may permit the Issuer to have use of funds payable with respect to a Note prior to JPMorgan's receipt of the sales proceeds of such Note. If JPMorgan makes a deposit, payment or transfer of funds on behalf of the Issuer before JPMorgan receives payment for any Note, such deposit, payment or transfer of funds shall represent an advance by JPMorgan to the Issuer to be repaid promptly, and in any event on the same day as it is made, from the proceeds of the sale of such Note, or by the Issuer if such proceeds are not received by JPMorgan.
Notice that the Issuer will not redeem any Note on the relative Initial Redemption Date (as defined in the applicable Extendible Commercial Note Announcement) must be received in writing by JPMorgan by 11:00 A.M. on such Initial Redemption Date. On any other day when a Note matures or is prepaid, the Issuer shall transmit, or cause to be transmitted, to the Account, prior to 2:00 P.M. New York time on the same day, an amount of immediately available funds sufficient to pay the aggregate principal amount of such Note and any applicable interest due. JPMorgan shall pay the interest (if any) and principal on a Book-Entry Note to DTC in immediately available funds, which payment shall be by net settlement of JPMorgan's account at DTC. JPMorgan shall pay Certificated Notes upon presentment. JPMorgan shall have no obligation under the Agreement to make any payment for which there is not sufficient, available and collected funds in the Account, and JPMorgan may, without liability to the Issuer, refuse to pay any Note that would result in an overdraft to the Account.
10. 
OVERDRAFTS
(a) Intraday overdrafts with respect to each Account shall be subject to JPMorgan's policies as in effect from time to time.
(b) An overdraft will exist in an Account if JPMorgan, in its sole discretion, (i) permits an advance to be made pursuant to Section 8 and, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8, such advance is not repaid in full on the same day as it is made, or (ii) pays a Note pursuant to Section 9 in excess of the available collected balance in such Account. Overdrafts shall be subject to JPMorgan's established banking practices, including, without limitation, the imposition of interest, funds usage charges and administrative fees. The Issuer shall repay any such overdraft, fees and charges no later than the next business day, together with interest on the overdraft at the rate established by JPMorgan for the Account, computed from and including the date of the overdraft to the date of repayment.
11. 
NO PRIOR COURSE OF DEALING
No prior action or course of dealing on the part of JPMorgan with respect to advances of the purchase price or payments of matured Notes shall give rise to any claim or cause of action by the Issuer against JPMorgan in the event that JPMorgan refuses to pay or settle any Notes for which the Issuer has not timely provided funds as required by this Agreement.
12. 
RETURN OF CERTIFICATED NOTES
JPMorgan will in due course cancel any Certificated Note presented for payment and return such Note to the Issuer. JPMorgan shall also cancel and return to the Issuer any spoiled or voided Certificated Notes. Promptly upon written request of the Issuer or at the termination of this Agreement, JPMorgan shall destroy all blank, unissued Certificated Notes in its possession and furnish a certificate to the Issuer certifying such actions.
13. 
INFORMATION FURNISHED BY JPMORGAN
Upon the reasonable request of the Issuer, JPMorgan shall promptly provide the Issuer with information with respect to any Note issued and paid hereunder, the Issuer delivers such request in writing and, to the extent applicable, includes the serial number or note number, principal amount, payee, date of issue, maturity date, amount of interest (if any) and place of payment of such Note.
provided, that
14. 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
The Issuer represents and warrants that: (i) it has the right, capacity and authority to enter into this Agreement; and (ii) it will comply with all of its obligations and duties under this Agreement. The Issuer further represents and agrees that each Note issued and distributed upon its instruction pursuant to this Agreement shall constitute the Issuer's representation and warranty to JPMorgan that such Note is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Issuer, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law), and that such Note is being issued in a transaction which is exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and any applicable state securities law.
15. 
DISCLAIMERS
Neither JPMorgan nor its directors, officers, employees or agents shall be liable for any act or omission under this Agreement except in the case of gross negligence or willful misconduct. IN NO EVENT SHALL JPMORGAN BE LIABLE FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL LOSS OR DAMAGE OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOST PROFITS), EVEN IF JPMORGAN HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE LIKELIHOOD OF SUCH LOSS OR DAMAGE AND REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF ACTION. In no event shall JPMorgan be considered negligent in consequence of complying with DTC's rules, regulations and procedures. The duties and obligations of JPMorgan, its directors, officers, employees or agents shall be determined by the express provisions of this Agreement and they shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth herein and no implied covenants shall be read into this Agreement against them. Neither JPMorgan nor its directors, officers, employees or agents shall be required to ascertain whether any issuance or sale of any Notes (or any amendment or termination of this Agreement) has been duly authorized or is in compliance with any other agreement to which the Issuer is a party (whether or not JPMorgan is also a party to such agreement).
16. 
INDEMNIFICATION
The Issuer agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless JPMorgan, its directors, officers, employees and agents (collectively, "indemnitees") from and against any and all liabilities, claims, losses, damages, penalties, reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) suffered or incurred by or asserted or assessed against any indemnitee arising in respect of this Agreement, except in respect of any indemnitee for any such liability, claim, loss, damage, penalty, cost or expense resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such indemnitee. This indemnity will survive the termination of this Agreement.
17. 
OPINION OF COUNSEL
The Issuer shall deliver to JPMorgan all documents it may reasonably request relating to the existence of the Issuer and authority of the Issuer for this Agreement, including, without limitation, an opinion of counsel, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto.
18. 
NOTICES
All notices, confirmations and other communications hereunder shall (except to the extent otherwise expressly provided) be in writing and shall be sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, by telecopier or by hand, addressed as follows, or to such other address as the party receiving such notice shall have previously specified to the party sending such notice:
If to the Issuer:
CME Group Inc.
20 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attention of: Chief Financial Officer (Telecopy No. (312) 930-3016)
with copies to Treasurer (Telecopy No. (312) 930-3016) and to General Counsel (Telecopy No. (312) 930-4556)
If to JPMorgan concerning the daily issuance and redemption of Notes:
19. 
COMPENSATION
The Issuer shall pay compensation for services pursuant to this Agreement in accordance with the pricing schedules furnished by JPMorgan to the Issuer from time to time and upon such payment terms as the parties shall determine. The Issuer shall also reimburse JPMorgan for any fees and charges imposed by DTC with respect to services provided in connection with the Book-Entry Notes.
20. 
BENEFIT OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement is solely for the benefit of the parties hereto and no other person shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue hereof.
21. 
TERMINATION
This Agreement may be terminated without affecting the respective liabilities of the parties hereunder arising prior to such termination: (i) upon 30 days notice to the other party for any reason; or (ii) immediately upon notice to the other party if any of the following events shall occur:
(a) either party shall materially breach this Agreement or fail to observe or perform any material covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement;
(b) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Issuer or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Issuer or for a substantial part of its assets, or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered; or
(c) the Issuer shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in the immediately preceding paragraph, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Issuer or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing.
22. 
FORCE MAJEURE
In no event shall JPMorgan be liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder because of circumstances beyond JPMorgan's control, including, but not limited to, acts of God, flood, war (whether declared or undeclared), terrorism, fire, riot, strikes or work stoppages for any reason, embargo, government action, including any laws, ordinances, regulations or the like which restrict or prohibit the providing of the services contemplated by this Agreement, inability to obtain material, equipment, or communications or computer facilities, or the failure of equipment or interruption of communications or computer facilities, and other causes beyond JPMorgan's control whether or not of the same class or kind as specifically named above.
23. 
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
This Agreement, together with the exhibits attached hereto, constitutes the entire agreement between JPMorgan and the Issuer with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes in all respects all prior proposals, negotiations, communications, discussions and agreements between the parties concerning the subject matter of this Agreement.
24. 
WAIVERS AND AMENDMENTS
No failure or delay on the part of any party in exercising any power or right under this Agreement shall operate as a waiver, nor does any single or partial exercise of any power or right preclude any other or further exercise, or the exercise of any other power or right. Any such waiver shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which it is given. No amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Issuer and JPMorgan.
25. 
BUSINESS DAY
Whenever any payment to be made hereunder shall be due on a day which is not a business day for JPMorgan, then such payment shall be made on JPMorgan's next succeeding business day.
26. 
COUNTERPARTS
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and such counterparts together shall constitute but one instrument.
27. 
HEADINGS
The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of reference only and shall not in any way limit or otherwise affect the meaning or interpretation of any of the terms of this Agreement.
28. 
GOVERNING LAW
This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York, without regard to the conflict of laws provisions thereof.
29. 
JURISDICTION AND VENUE
Each party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and any New York State court located in the Borough of Manhattan in New York City and of any appellate court from any thereof for the purposes of any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement (a ). Each party hereby irrevocably agrees that all claims in respect of any Proceeding may be heard and determined in such Federal or New York State court and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so, any objection it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any Proceeding in any of the aforementioned courts and the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of any Proceeding.
"Proceeding"
30. 
WAIVER OF TRIAL BY JURY
EACH PARTY HEREBY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT.
31. 
ACCOUNT CONDITIONS
Each Account shall be subject to JPMorgan's account conditions, as in effect from time to time.
the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed on their behalf by duly authorized officers as of the day and year first-above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
By: Name: Title: Date:
/s/ Jennifer Fredericks
Jennifer Fredericks
Trust Officer
August 16, 2007
CME GROUP INC.
August 16, 2007
To the Addressees listed on Schedule I hereto
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am the General Counsel of CME Group Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and, as such, I am furnishing this opinion in connection with each of (i) that certain Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2007 (the "Lehman Dealer Agreement"), between the Company, as issuer, and Lehman Brothers Inc., as dealer (the "Lehman Dealer"), (ii) that certain Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2007 (the "Merrill Dealer Agreement" and, together with the Lehman Dealer Agreement, collectively, the "Dealer Agreements"), among the Company, as issuer, and Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc., as dealer for Notes (as defined in the Merrill Dealer Agreement) with maturities up to 270 days ("MLMM"), and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as dealer for Notes (as defined in the Merrill Dealer Agreement) with maturities over 270 days ("MLPF&S" and, together with MLMM, collectively, the "Merrill Dealer"), (iii) that certain Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2007 (the "Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement"), between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as issuing and paying agent (the "Issuing and Paying Agent"), and (iv) the Master Note dated August 16, 2007 (the "Master Note"). The Lehman Dealer Agreement, the Merrill Dealer Agreement, the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement and the Master Note shall hereafter be referred to collectively as the "Transaction Agreements." This opinion is being delivered pursuant to Section 3.6 of each Dealer Agreement.
In my examination, I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, including endorsements, the legal capacity and competency of natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to me as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as facsimile, electronic, certified or photostatic copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such copies. When relevant facts were not independently established, I have relied upon statements of governmental officials and upon representations made in or pursuant to the Transaction Agreements, certificates of appropriate representatives of the Company.
In rendering the opinions set forth herein, I have examined and relied upon originals or copies of the Transaction Agreements and such other documents as I have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinions set forth below.
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings herein as ascribed thereto in the Dealer Agreements. As used herein, "Applicable Laws" means those laws, rules and regulations which, in my experience, are normally applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, without my having made any special investigation as to the applicability of any specific law, rule or regulation, and which are not the subject of a specific opinion herein referring expressly to a particular law or laws.
I am a member of the Bar of the State of Illinois and the foregoing opinions are limited to matters involving the Federal laws of the United States of America and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and I do not express any opinion as to any other laws. I note that the Transaction Agreements purport to be governed by the laws of the State of New York and I express no opinion with respect to the laws of the State of New York.
Based upon the foregoing and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, I am of the opinion that:
1. The Company is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
2. The Company has all the requisite corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each of the Transaction Agreements. The execution and delivery of each of the Transaction Agreements and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of the Company. Each of each Dealer Agreement and the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
3. In the event that an Illinois court were to apply the substantive laws of the State of Illinois, notwithstanding the choice of law of the parties set forth in the Transaction Agreements, and without regard to choice of law principles, each of the Transaction Agreements constitutes and, in the case of the Notes, when issued in accordance with the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement and paid for by the purchasers thereof, will constitute, the valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms under the Applicable Laws of the State of Illinois.
4. The execution and delivery by the Company of each of the Transaction Agreements and the performance by the Company of its obligations under each of the Transaction Agreements, each in accordance with its terms, do not (i) conflict with the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company, (ii) constitute a violation of, or a default under any material agreements or instruments known to me (after due inquiry) to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound or to which it is subject or result in the creation or imposition of any lien upon any property of the Company pursuant to the terms of any such material agreement or instrument or (iii) violate any order, writ, injunction or decree known to me (after due inquiry) of any court or governmental authority or agency applicable to the Company.
5. The offer, sale and delivery of the Notes in the manner contemplated by the Dealer Agreements do not require registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or qualification of any indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (it being understood that I express no opinion as to any subsequent resale of any Note); and the Notes will rank at least pari passu with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company.
6. No consent, approval or authorization of, or filing, recording or registration with, any governmental authority, which has not been obtained or taken and is not in full force and effect, is required to authorize, or is required in connection with, the execution or delivery of any of the Transaction Agreements by the Company or the enforceability of any of the Transaction Agreements against the Company, except as may be required by the securities or Blue Sky laws of the various states in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes.
7. To the best of my knowledge, except as disclosed in the Company's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, there is no litigation or governmental proceeding pending or threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries which would have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Transaction Agreements.
8. The Company is not an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
My opinions are subject to the following assumptions and qualifications:
(a) enforcement may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in equity or at law);
(b) I have assumed that each of the Transaction Agreements constitutes the valid and binding obligation of each party to such Transaction Agreement (other than the Company to the extent expressly set forth herein) enforceable against such other party in accordance with its terms;
(c) I express no opinion as to the effect on the opinions expressed herein of (i) the compliance or non-compliance of any party (other than the Company to the extent expressly set forth herein) to the Transaction Agreements with any state, federal or other laws or regulations applicable to any of them or (ii) the legal or regulatory status or the nature of the business of any party (other than the Company to the extent expressly set forth herein);
(d) I express no opinion as to the enforceability of any rights to contribution or indemnification provided for in the Transaction Agreements which are violative of the public policy underlying any law, rule or regulation (including any federal or state securities law, rule or regulation);
(e) I express no opinion as to the applicability or effect of any fraudulent transfer, preference or similar law on the Transaction Agreements or any transactions contemplated thereby;
(f) I express no opinion on the enforceability of any provision in a Transaction Agreement purporting to prohibit, restrict or condition the assignment of rights under such Transaction Agreement to the extent such restriction on assignability is governed by the Uniform Commercial Code;
(g) I express no opinion as to the enforceability of any provision of any Transaction Agreement to the extent it purports to waive any objection a person may have that a suit, action or proceeding has been brought in an inconvenient forum or a forum lacking subject matter jurisdiction;
(h) for purposes of my opinion set forth in paragraph 5 above, I have assumed (a) the accuracy of the representations and warranties and compliance with the agreements made by the Dealer in the Dealer Agreements (b) compliance by the Dealer with the offering and transfer procedures and restrictions required by the Dealer Agreements including, without limitation, the delivery to each purchaser of the Notes of an offering memorandum containing a legend restricting offers, sales and resales of the Notes in the form required by the Dealer Agreements and (c) the accuracy of the representations and warranties made in accordance with such offering memorandum by the initial purchasers of the Notes; and
(i) I express no opinion as to the enforceability of Section 7.3(a) of either Dealer Agreement.
At the request of the Company, this opinion letter is, pursuant to Section 3.6 of each Dealer Agreement, provided to you by me in my capacity as in-house counsel of the Company and may not be relied upon by any person for any purpose other than in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements without, in each instance, my prior written consent. No opinion is implied or is to be inferred beyond the opinions expressly stated above. I assume no obligation to update this letter for events, changes in law or circumstances occurring after the date of this opinion.
Very truly yours,
Schedule I to Opinion
Lehman Brothers Inc., as Dealer for the Notes (under and as defined in the Lehman Dealer Agreement)
Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc., as Dealer for Notes (as defined in the Merrill Dealer Agreement) with maturities up to 270 days
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Dealer for Notes (as defined in the Merrill Dealer Agreement) with maturities over 270 days
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Issuing and Paying Agent


