FILE:CME/CME-8K-20070614143332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[x]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On June 14, 2007, Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation ("CME Holdings"), CBOT Holdings, Inc. ("CBOT Holdings") and the Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a subsidiary of CBOT Holdings ("CBOT"), entered into Amendment No. 3 (the "Amendment") to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 17, 2006 and amended as of December 20, 2006 and May 11, 2007, by and among CME Holdings, CBOT Holdings and CBOT (the "Merger Agreement"). Pursuant to the Amendment, all CBOT Holdings Class A shareholders of record will receive a one-time cash dividend of $9.14 per share. The dividend will be declared by CBOT Holdings before the close of the merger and paid immediately prior to the merger, after all the conditions to the merger have been satisfied. In addition, eligible holders of Chicago Board Options Exchange ("CBOE") exercise rights ("ERP") will have an additional choice regarding their exercise rights: (i) the right to continue as a class member in the CBOE lawsuit and a guarantee, even if the lawsuit is lost or settled, of up to a $250,000 payment; or (ii) for CBOT members who do not want to pursue the lawsuit, the right to sell their ERP to CBOT for $250,000 payable following the closing of the merger. CME Holdings eliminated the $15 million cap on out-of-pocket costs (including attorneys fees) incurred with respect to its obligations to prosecute the ERP litigation and defend against any other proceedings brought to challenge the exercise rights. A five-person committee of the Board of Directors of CME Group, Inc., including three CBOT directors, will have veto authority over CBOT rule changes, including member fees, that could materially impair the business opportunities of CBOT members. This veto authority will extend to the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Pursuant to the Amendment, the CME Group certificate of incorporation and bylaws were amended to extend the period of time during which the CBOT directors, as defined in the Merger Agreement, are designated to serve on the CME Group board of directors until the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. The foregoing summary of the Amendment, and the transactions contemplated thereby, does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Amendment, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1, and the full text of the Merger Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to CME Holdings Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on October 19, 2006, and Amendment No 2, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to CME Holdings' Current Report, filed on May 11, 2007.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On June 14, 2007, CME Holdings and CBOT Holdings issued a joint press release announcing the amendment of the Merger Agreement. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 2.1
This AMENDMENT NO. 3, dated as of June 14, 2007 (this ""), to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 17, 2006 and amended as of December 20, 2006 and May 11, 2007 (the ""), is by and among Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), CBOT Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, Inc., a Delaware non-stock corporation and subsidiary of CBOT Holdings ("").
Amendment
Agreement
CME Holdings
CBOT Holdings
CBOT
WHEREAS, CME Holdings, CBOT Holdings and CBOT desire to amend and supplement certain terms of the Agreement as described in this Amendment;
WHEREAS, the Boards of Directors of CME Holdings, CBOT Holdings and CBOT have each determined that the Amendment is consistent with, and will further, their respective business strategies and goals, and have deemed it advisable and in the best interests of their respective companies, stockholders and members that CME Holdings and CBOT Holdings engage in a business combination; and
WHEREAS, all capitalized terms not defined in this Amendment shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and of the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained herein, the Parties agree as follows:
. Section 1.1 of the Agreement is hereby amended to add the following definitions:
1. Amendment to Section 1.1
"' has the meaning set forth in ."
Conditional Dividend Record Date
Section 6.19
"' has the meaning set forth in ."
Conditional Special Dividend
Section 6.19
"' has the meaning set forth in ."
Dissenting CBOT Holdings Shares
Section 1.12
"' has the meaning set forth in ."
Relevant Record Holders
Section 6.19
. Section 1.9(a) of the Agreement is hereby amended to add the phrase "and other than Dissenting CBOT Holdings Shares" within the parenthetical after the word "subsidiaries".
2. Amendment to Section 1.9(a)
. Section 1.12 of the Agreement is hereby amended and restated as follows:
3. Amendment to Section 1.12
"The Parties agree that appraisal rights shall be available to holders of shares of CBOT Holdings Class A Common Stock in connection with the Merger in accordance with Section 262 of the DGCL (regardless of whether Section 262(b) of the DGCL is applicable). Notwithstanding , shares of CBOT Holdings Class A Common Stock which are issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and held by a holder who has not voted such shares of CBOT Holdings Class A Common Stock in favor of the Merger and who has demanded appraisal for such shares of CBOT Holdings Class A Common Stock in accordance with Section 262 of the DGCL (the "") shall not be converted into the right to receive the Merger Consideration and the holder thereof shall be entitled to appraisal rights, unless such holder fails to perfect, withdraws or loses the right to appraisal. If, after the Effective Time, such holder fails to perfect, withdraws or loses the right to appraisal, such Dissenting CBOT Holdings Shares shall be treated as if they had been converted as of the Effective Time into the right to receive the Merger Consideration. CBOT Holdings shall give CME Holdings reasonably prompt notice of any written demands received by CBOT Holdings for appraisal of shares of CBOT Holdings Class A Common Stock, and CME Holdings shall have the right to participate in all negotiations and proceedings with respect to such demands. Except with the prior written consent of CME Holdings or if ordered to do so by a court of competent jurisdiction, CBOT Holdings shall not make any payment with respect to, or offer to settle or settle, any such demands."
Section 1.9
Dissenting CBOT Holdings Shares
. Section 3.23 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the phrase "May 11, 2007" and replacing it with the phrase "June 14, 2007".
4. Amendment to Section 3.23
. Section 4.21 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the phrase "May 11, 2007" and replacing it with the phrase "June 14, 2007".
5. Amendment to Section 4.21
Section 5.1(b)(i) of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the comma after the phrase "25%" and adding the following phrase in its place:
6. Amendment to Section 5.
1(b)
.
"; and provided, further, that (A) CBOT Holdings shall be permitted to declare and pay the Conditional Special Dividend as required pursuant to , and (B) CBOT shall be permitted to declare and pay to CBOT Holdings a dividend in an amount up to the amount of the Conditional Special Dividend in connection with the payment by CBOT Holdings of the Conditional Special Dividend,"
Section 6.19
Article VI of the Agreement is hereby amended to add a new Section 6.19 as follows:
7. Amendment to Article VI.
"Section 6.19. . CBOT Holdings agrees to declare, and CBOT Holdings shall declare, at such time as determined by the CBOT Holdings Board of Directors (or a committee thereof), but in all events before the CBOT Holdings Stockholders Meeting, a one-time, special cash dividend to holders of record (collectively, the "") of CBOT Holdings Class A Common Stock in the amount of $9.14 per share of CBOT Holdings Class A Common Stock (the "") held by Relevant Record Holders on the record date for such Conditional Special Dividend that is established by the CBOT Holdings Board of Directors (or a committee thereof) in accordance with applicable law and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (which record date shall be before the Effective Time) (the ""); provided, that the Conditional Special Dividend shall only become payable, and such payment shall be conditioned, upon the satisfaction or waiver of all conditions set forth in and immediately prior to the occurrence of the Effective Time. CME Holdings and CBOT Holdings agree that, immediately prior to the Effective Time, (a) CBOT Holdings shall cause to be deposited with its transfer agent an amount sufficient to pay the Conditional Special Dividend in full and shall take all steps necessary to cause the transfer agent to pay the Conditional Special Dividend and (b) each Relevant Record Holder shall be entitled to receive the Conditional Special Dividend in respect of each share of CBOT Holdings Class A Common Stock held by each such holder on the Conditional Dividend Record Date, in addition to any Merger Consideration that such Relevant Record Holder shall be entitled to receive in respect of each such share of CBOT Holdings Class A Common Stock under this Agreement. For the sake of clarity, nothing in this and no action taken pursuant to this , shall give rise to any adjustment to the Exchange Ratio."
Conditional Special Dividend
Relevant Record Holders
Conditional Special Dividend
Conditional Dividend Record Date
Article VII
Section 6.19
Section 6.19
Section 9.8 of the Agreement is hereby amended to add the following sentence at the end of such Section:
8. Amendment to Section 9.8.
"If, in the opinion of either counsel to CME Holdings or counsel to CBOT Holdings, it is highly likely that the Merger could fail to qualify as a tax free reorganization described in Section 368 of the Code due to the exercise of appraisal rights or otherwise, then the parties hereto agree to negotiate in good faith to restructure the Merger in order that it shall otherwise qualify as a transaction that is in whole or in part tax-free under the Code, including as a Section 351 exchange under the Code; provided, that in no way shall such restructuring result in any change in the Exchange Ratio, the Merger Consideration or in the economics or other material terms of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement to CME Holdings or its stockholders, or CBOT Holdings, CBOT or their respective stockholders and members."
The form of Certificate of Incorporation of the Surviving Corporation attached to the Agreement as is hereby replaced in its entirety with the form of Certificate of Incorporation attached hereto as .
9. Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of CME Group.
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
The form of By-Laws of the Surviving Corporation attached to the Agreement as is hereby replaced in its entirety with the form of By-Laws attached hereto as .
10. Amendment of By-Laws of CME Group.
Exhibit B
Exhibit B
. The form of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of CBOT attached to the Agreement as is hereby replaced in its entirety with the form of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation attached hereto as .
11. Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of CBOT
Exhibit C
Exhibit C
. The Agreement shall not be amended or otherwise modified by this Amendment except as set forth in Sections 1 through 11 of this Amendment. The provisions of the Agreement that have not been amended hereby shall remain in full force and effect. The provisions of the Agreement amended hereby shall remain in full force and effect as amended hereby. In the event of any inconsistency or contradiction between the terms of this Amendment and the Agreement, the provisions of this Amendment shall prevail and control.
12. Interpretation
. On and after the date hereof, each reference in the Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereof", "herein", "herewith", "hereunder" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to the Agreement as amended by this Amendment. No reference to this Amendment need be made in any instrument or document at any time referring to the Agreement and any reference to the Agreement in any such instrument or document shall be deemed to be a reference to the Agreement as amended by this Amendment.
13. Reference to the Agreement
. This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument. This Amendment shall become effective when each Party hereto shall have received counterparts thereof signed and delivered (by telecopy or otherwise) by the other Parties hereto.
14. Counterparts; Effectiveness
. This Amendment shall be deemed to be made in and in all respects shall be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with the law of the State of Delaware without regard to its rules of conflicts of law.
15. Governing Law
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the duly authorized officers of the parties hereto as of the date first written above.
CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE HOLDINGS INC.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CME and CBOT Revise Merger Agreement to Provide Increased Value to CBOT Shareholders
Agreement Delivers One-Time Cash Dividend to All CBOT Shareholders and Guarantee for Holders of CBOE Exercise Rights
CHICAGO, June 14, 2007  Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc. (NYSE/Nasdaq: CME) and CBOT Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: BOT) today announced that they have revised the terms of their merger agreement to provide additional value to all CBOT Holdings shareholders and a guarantee for holders of Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) exercise right privileges (ERP). The revised agreement has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies.
Under the terms of the revised agreement:
 -  A five-person committee of the Board of CME Group, including three CBOT directors, will have veto authority over rule changes, including member fees, that could materially impair the business opportunities of CBOT members. This veto
The combination of these enhancements substantially increases the value of the transaction for all CBOT Holdings shareholders and CBOT members.
"We believe that this one-time dividend to all CBOT shareholders and the unique ERP guarantee and purchase offer further improve the value of a merger with CME over the unsolicited ICE proposal," said CME Executive Chairman Terry Duffy. "CME and CBOT are committed to completing our merger and delivering superior value to shareholders of both companies. We recognize that different CBOT members may have different preferences for realizing value for their ERP rights. The combination of the substantial cash dividend for all CBOT shareholders and the more flexible and potentially more valuable ERP guarantee better addresses CBOT shareholders' interests and positions us to successfully complete our shareholder and member votes on July 9."
"We believe that the special dividend, the unique ERP guarantee and the enhancements to governance and member rights further improve the overall value of a merger with CME for all shareholders and members," said CBOT Chairman Charlie Carey.  "A combination with CME will create the most extensive and diverse global derivatives exchange, transforming global derivatives markets and creating efficiencies for customers and members while delivering significant benefits to shareholders."
"
We believe the CBOE/ICE agreement fails to offer fair value to CBOT members," said Craig Donohue, CME Chief Executive Officer.  "The cash dividend of $9.14 per share, or a total of $485 million, will provide immediate liquidity to all CBOT shareholders.  For a CBOT full member who holds 27,338 CBOT Class A shares, this dividend equates to approximately $250,000 in respect of those shares.  Additionally, our "Exercise Right" guarantee is superior because it allows ERP holders to either cash out early or remain in the litigation with a minimum $250,000 value guarantee and the potential for capturing the substantial upside, including the potential right to share equally with CBOE regular members in any CBOE demutualization. For illustrative purposes, if CBOE's fair market value is $3.3 billion and ERP owners and CBOE members share pro rata, the value of an ERP share is about $1.5 million."
"From a strategic and operational perspective, the combination with CME provides outstanding opportunities for growth, efficiencies and innovation, creating the leading global derivatives exchange in all major asset classes and one of the world's most liquid marketplaces," said CBOT President and CEO Bernard W. Dan. "We look forward to working with the CME management team to complete this transaction and to achieve the tremendous potential we believe the combined company will provide to its shareholders, customers and members."
One-Time Cash Dividend
Under the terms of the agreement, CBOT will declare a one-time dividend of $9.14 per share of CBOT Holdings Class A common stock to shareholders of record as of a date prior to the close of the merger. The dividend will be conditioned upon the satisfaction or waiver of all of the conditions to the merger and paid immediately prior to the closing of the merger. In addition, the parties have agreed that appraisal rights will be available to CBOT Holdings shareholders in connection with the merger in accordance with Delaware law.
ERP Guarantee
Under the terms of the revised agreement, effective immediately following the closing of the merger:
CME and CBOT noted that their guarantee for ERP holders did not require approval of CBOE or CBOE members, or the court or the class plaintiff in the pending Delaware litigation. The ICE/CBOE proposal, by contrast, would require the approval of CBOE members, the court and the class plaintiff in the litigation, creating significant uncertainty regarding, if or when, the proposed ERP consideration would be paid. The ICE/CBOE proposal is designed to extinguish the rights of ERP holders without the opportunity to preserve their rights to a full participation in a CBOE demutualization.
CME has also eliminated the $15 million cap on out-of-pocket costs (including attorneys' fees) incurred by CBOT with respect to its obligations to prosecute the CBOE litigation and defend against any other proceedings brought to challenge the exercise rights.
Governance and Member Rights
A five-person committee of the Board of CME Group, including three CBOT directors, will have veto authority over rule changes, including member fees, that could materially impair CBOT member opportunity. This veto authority will extend to the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, an extension of three additional years from the original merger agreement.
In addition, the terms of the revised merger agreement extend the period during which designated CBOT directors serve on the Board of CME Group to the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Tender Offer
The terms of the revised merger agreement continue to include an obligation on the part of CME to make a $3.5 billion cash tender offer at $560 per share shortly following the closing of the merger. Both CME shareholders and CBOT shareholders that receive CME stock in the merger will be eligible to participate in the tender offer. If the stock trades through the $560 level, CME is committed to return excess capital to shareholders.
CME and CBOT Holdings will hold an investor call and webcast today at 9:15 a.m. Eastern Time / 8:15 a.m. Central Time to discuss this morning's announcement. Presentation materials can be accessed through the investor relations section of CME's Web site at http://www.cme.com/. To participate in the call, dial (800) 500-0311. International callers should dial (719) 457-2698. No passcode is necessary.
CME () is the world's largest and most diverse financial exchange.  As an international marketplace, CME brings together buyers and sellers on the CME Globex(r) electronic trading platform and on its trading floors. CME offers futures and options on futures in these product areas: interest rates, stock indexes, foreign exchange, agricultural commodities, energy, and alternative investment products such as weather, real estate and economic derivatives.   CME is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc. (NYSE, NASDAQ:CME), which is part of the Russell 1000(r) Index and the S&P 500(r) Index.
About CME
www.cme.com
As one of the leading global derivative exchanges, the Chicago Board of Trade provides a diverse mix of financial, equity and commodity futures and options-on-futures products. Building on its 159-year history, the CBOT continues to advance into the future using the strength of deep liquidity, market integrity and member-trader expertise. Using superior trading technology in both electronic and open-auction trading platforms, the CBOT provides premier customer service to risk managers and investors worldwide. For more information, visit our website at .
About the CBOT
http://www.cbot.com/
This press release may contain forward-looking information regarding Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc. and CBOT Holdings, Inc. and the combined company after the completion of the merger that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, the benefits of the business combination transaction involving CME and CBOT, including future financial and operating results, the new company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based on current beliefs, expectations, forecasts and assumptions of CME's and CBOT's management which are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from these statements. Other risks and uncertainties relating to the proposed transaction include, but are not limited to, the satisfaction of conditions to closing, including receipt of shareholder, member, regulatory and other approvals on the proposed terms; the proposed transaction may not be consummated on the proposed terms; uncertainty of the expected financial performance of the combined company following completion of the proposed transaction; the combined company may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings, synergies and other strategic benefits as a result of the proposed transaction; the integration of CBOT's operations with CME's may not be successful or may be materially delayed or may be more costly or difficult than expected; general industry and market conditions; general domestic and international economic conditions; and governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations.
Forward-Looking Statements
More information regarding other risks to the parties performance can be found in their filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Item 1A of each of their Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and their most recent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of said filings are available online at or on request from CME or CBOT. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Except for any obligation to disclose material information under the Federal securities laws, CME and CBOT undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release.
http://www.sec.gov
CME and CBOT have filed a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus with the SEC in connection with the proposed transaction. The parties intend to file a supplement to the joint proxy statement/prospectus and mail the supplement to their respective shareholders in connection with the special shareholder meetings. This press release is not a substitute for the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, as supplemented, or any other documents CME and CBOT have filed or will file with the SEC. Investors and security holders are urged to read the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, as supplemented, and any other relevant documents filed or to be filed by CME or CBOT because they contain or will contain important information about the proposed transaction. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus is,
Additional Information
CME and its directors, executive officers and other employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding CME's directors and executive officers is available in CME's proxy statement for its 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, dated March 17, 2007. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants is available in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, as supplemented, and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC.
CBOT and its directors, executive officers and other employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding CBOT directors and executive officers is available in CBOT's proxy statement for its 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, dated March 29, 2007. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants is included in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC.
Statements included in this press release relating to the ICE offer reflect the views of CME's and CBOT's management.
This document shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Contacts:
07-111


