FILE:CME/CME-8K-20080826171344.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
CME Group Inc., a Delaware corporation ("CME Group"), on August 16, 2007 entered into a commercial paper program for the issuance from time to time of unsecured commercial paper notes (the "Notes") in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3.0 billion outstanding at any time as disclosed in its Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on August 20, 2007, which Current Report is hereby incorporated by reference. Subsequently, CME Group decreased the amount of its commercial paper program to up to $2.3 billion. On August 20, 2008, CME Group entered into an additional Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement with Banc of America Securities LLC ("BoA"), as Dealer, and on August 22, 2008 entered into an additional Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement with Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("Goldman"), as Dealer. The two Commercial Paper Dealer Agreements set forth the terms and conditions under which BoA and Goldman will either purchase from CME Group or arrange for the sale by CME Group of Notes in transactions exempt from registration under federal and state securities laws. The Commercial Paper Dealer Agreements contain customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnification provisions. Under the Commercial Paper Dealer Agreements, the maturities of the Notes may vary, but may not exceed 397 days, and the Notes must be in a minimum denomination of $250,000. The Notes may be issued and sold, at the option of CME Group, either at par or at a discount to par and, if interest bearing, with interest at fixed or variable rates based on market conditions at the time of the issuance of the Notes. BoA and Goldman, and their affiliates, have performed or may perform in the future various commercial banking, investment banking and other financial advisory services for CME Group and its affiliates for which they have received or may receive customary fees and expenses. The foregoing description of the Commercial Paper Dealer Agreements is only a summary, does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Commercial Paper Dealer Agreements, which are filed as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith: 10.1 Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2008, between CME Group Inc., as Issuer, and Banc of America Securities LLC, as Dealer. 10.2 Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement, dated as of August 22, 2008, among CME Group Inc., as Issuer, and Goldman, Sachs & Co., as Dealer.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Concerning Notes to be issued pursuant to an Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement dated as of August 16, 2007 between the Issuer and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Issuing and Paying Agent
Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement
4(2) Program
This agreement (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time, the "Agreement") sets forth the understandings between CME Group Inc., as issuer (the "Issuer"), and Banc of America Securities LLC (the "Dealer"), in connection with the issuance and sale by the Issuer of its short-term promissory notes (the "Notes") through the Dealer.
Certain terms used in this Agreement are defined in Section 6 hereof.
The Addendum to this Agreement, and any Annexes or Exhibits described in this Agreement or such Addendum, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement and made fully a part hereof.
The Issuer represents and warrants that each acceptance by the Issuer of an offer for the purchase of Notes shall be deemed an affirmation by the Issuer that its representations and warranties set forth in this Article 2 are true and correct at the time of such acceptance:
The Issuer covenants and agrees that:
(b) In the event that the Issuer gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a) and the Dealer notifies the Issuer that it then has Notes it is holding in inventory, the Issuer agrees promptly to supplement or amend the Private Placement Memorandum so that the Private Placement Memorandum, as amended or supplemented, shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and the Issuer shall make such supplement or amendment available to the Dealer.
(c) In the event that (i) the Issuer gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a), (ii) the Dealer does not notify the Issuer that it is then holding Notes in inventory and (iii) the Issuer chooses not to promptly amend or supplement the Private Placement Memorandum in the manner described in clause (b) above, then all solicitations and sales of Notes shall be suspended until such time as the Issuer has so amended or supplemented the Private Placement Memorandum, and made such amendment or supplement available to the Dealer.
(d) Without limiting the generality of Section 4.3(a), the Issuer shall review, amend and supplement the Private Placement Memorandum on a periodic basis, but no less than at least once annually, to incorporate current financial information of the Issuer to the extent necessary to ensure that the information provided in the Private Placement Memorandum is accurate and complete.
5. Indemnification and Contribution.
6. Definitions.
7. General
(b) The Issuer hereby irrevocably accepts and submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of each of the aforesaid courts in personam, generally and unconditionally, for itself and in respect of its properties, assets and revenues, with respect to any suit, action or proceeding in connection with or arising out of this Agreement or the Notes or the offer and sale of the Notes.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date and year first above written.

Concerning Notes to be issued pursuant to an Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement dated as of August 16, 2007 between the Issuer and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Issuing and Paying Agent
Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement
4(2) Program
This agreement (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time, the "Agreement") sets forth the understandings between the Issuer and the Dealer, each named on the cover page hereof, in connection with the issuance and sale by the Issuer of its short-term promissory notes (the "Notes") through the Dealer.
Certain terms used in this Agreement are defined in Section 6 hereof.
The Addendum to this Agreement, and any Annexes or Exhibits described in this Agreement or such Addendum, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement and made fully a part hereof.
The Issuer represents and warrants that each offer by the Issuer of Notes for purchase shall be deemed an affirmation by the Issuer that its representations and warranties set forth in this Article 2 are true and correct at the time of such acceptance:
The Issuer covenants and agrees that:
(b) In the event that the Issuer gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a) and the Dealer notifies the Issuer that it then has Notes it is holding in inventory, the Issuer agrees promptly to supplement or amend the Private Placement Memorandum so that the Private Placement Memorandum, as amended or supplemented, shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and the Issuer shall make such supplement or amendment available to the Dealer.
(c) In the event that (i) the Issuer gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a), (ii) the Dealer does not notify the Issuer that it is then holding Notes in inventory and (iii) the Issuer chooses not to promptly amend or supplement the Private Placement Memorandum in the manner described in clause (b) above, then all solicitations and sales of Notes shall be suspended until such time as the Issuer has so amended or supplemented the Private Placement Memorandum, and made such amendment or supplement available to the Dealer.
(d) Without limiting the generality of Section 4.3(a), the Issuer shall review, amend and supplement the Private Placement Memorandum on a periodic basis, but no less than at least once annually, to incorporate current financial information of the Issuer to the extent necessary to ensure that the information provided in the Private Placement Memorandum is accurate and complete.
5. Indemnification and Contribution.
6. Definitions.
7. General
(b) The Issuer hereby irrevocably accepts and submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of each of the aforesaid courts in personam, generally and unconditionally, for itself and in respect of its properties, assets and revenues, with respect to any suit, action or proceeding in connection with or arising out of this Agreement or the Notes or the offer and sale of the Notes.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date and year first above written.
Addendum
The following additional clauses shall apply to the Agreement and be deemed a part thereof.
For the Issuer:
Attention of: Chief Financial Officer (Telecopy No. (312) 930-3016)
Address: 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attention: Chief Financial Officer
Fax number: (312) 930-3016
with copies to Treasurer (Telecopy No. (312) 930-3016) and to General Counsel (Telecopy No. (312) 930-4556)
For the Dealer:
Address: 85 Broad Street, New York, New York 10004
Attention: Money Market Origination
Telephone number: 212-902-6181
Fax number: 212-902-0683
Model Opinion of Counsel to Issuer
August , 2008
     
To the Addressees listed on hereto
Schedule I
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am the General Counsel of CME Group Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and, as such, I am furnishing this opinion in connection with each of (i) that certain Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement, dated as of August 22, 2008 (the ""), between the Company, as issuer, and Goldman, Sachs & Co., as dealer (the ""), (ii) that certain Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement, dated as of August 22, 2008 (the "" and, together with the Goldman Dealer Agreement, together, the ""), between the Company, as issuer, and Bank of America Securities, LLC, as dealer (the ""), (iii) that certain Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2007 (the ""), between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as issuing and paying agent (the ""), and (iv) the Master Note dated August 16, 2007 (the ""). The Goldman Dealer Agreement, the BoA Dealer Agreement, the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement and the Master Note shall hereafter be referred to collectively as the "." This opinion is being delivered pursuant to Section 3.6 of each Dealer Agreement.
Company
Goldman Dealer Agreement
Goldman Dealer
BoA Dealer Agreement
Dealer Agreements
BoA Dealer
Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement
Issuing and Paying Agent
Master Note
Transaction Agreements
In my examination, I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures other than those of the Company, including endorsements, the legal capacity and competency of natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to me as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as facsimile, electronic, certified or photostatic copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such copies. When relevant facts were not independently established, I have relied upon statements of governmental officials and upon representations made in or pursuant to the Transaction Agreements, certificates of appropriate representatives of the Company.
In rendering the opinions set forth herein, I have examined and relied upon originals or copies of the Transaction Agreements and such other documents as I have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinions set forth below.
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings herein as ascribed thereto in the Dealer Agreements. As used herein, "" means those laws, rules and regulations which, in my experience, are normally applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, without my having made any special investigation as to the applicability of any specific law, rule or regulation, and which are not the subject of a specific opinion herein referring expressly to a particular law or laws.
Applicable Laws
I am a member of the Bar of the State of Illinois and the foregoing opinions are limited to matters involving the Federal laws of the United States of America and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and I do not express any opinion as to any other laws. I note that the Transaction Agreements purport to be governed by the laws of the State of New York and I express no opinion with respect to the laws of the State of New York.
Based upon the foregoing and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, I am of the opinion that:
1. The Company is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
2. The Company has all the requisite corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each of the Transaction Agreements. The execution and delivery of each of the Transaction Agreements and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of the Company. Each of each Dealer Agreement and the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
3. In the event that an Illinois court were to apply the substantive laws of the State of Illinois, notwithstanding the choice of law of the parties set forth in the Transaction Agreements, and without regard to choice of law principles, each of the Transaction Agreements constitutes and, in the case of the Notes, when issued in accordance with the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement and paid for by the purchasers thereof, will constitute, the valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms under the Applicable Laws of the State of Illinois.
4. The execution and delivery by the Company of each of the Transaction Agreements and the performance by the Company of its obligations under each of the Transaction Agreements, each in accordance with its terms, do not (i) conflict with the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company, (ii) constitute a violation of, or a default under any material agreements or instruments known to me (after due inquiry) to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound or to which it is subject or result in the creation or imposition of any lien upon any property of the Company pursuant to the terms of any such material agreement or instrument or (iii) violate any order, writ, injunction or decree known to me (after due inquiry) of any court or governmental authority or agency applicable to the Company.
5. The offer, sale and delivery of the Notes in the manner contemplated by the Dealer Agreements do not require registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or qualification of any indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (it being understood that I express no opinion as to any subsequent resale of any Note); and the Notes will rank at least with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company.
pari
passu
6. No consent, approval or authorization of, or filing, recording or registration with, any governmental authority, which has not been obtained or taken and is not in full force and effect, is required to authorize, or is required in connection with, the execution or delivery of any of the Transaction Agreements by the Company or the enforceability of any of the Transaction Agreements against the Company, except as may be required by the securities or Blue Sky laws of the various states in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes.
7. To the best of my knowledge, except as disclosed in the Company's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, there is no litigation or governmental proceeding pending or threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries which would have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Transaction Agreements.
8. The Company is not an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
My opinions are subject to the following assumptions and qualifications:
(a) enforcement may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in equity or at law);
(b) I have assumed that each of the Transaction Agreements constitutes the valid and binding obligation of each party to such Transaction Agreement (other than the Company to the extent expressly set forth herein) enforceable against such other party in accordance with its terms;
(c) I express no opinion as to the effect on the opinions expressed herein of (i) the compliance or non-compliance of any party (other than the Company to the extent expressly set forth herein) to the Transaction Agreements with any state, federal or other laws or regulations applicable to any of them or (ii) the legal or regulatory status or the nature of the business of any party (other than the Company to the extent expressly set forth herein);
(d) I express no opinion as to the enforceability of any rights to contribution or indemnification provided for in the Transaction Agreements which are violative of the public policy underlying any law, rule or regulation (including any federal or state securities law, rule or regulation);
(e) I express no opinion as to the applicability or effect of any fraudulent transfer, preference or similar law on the Transaction Agreements or any transactions contemplated thereby;
(f) I express no opinion on the enforceability of any provision in a Transaction Agreement purporting to prohibit, restrict or condition the assignment of rights under such Transaction Agreement to the extent such restriction on assignability is governed by the Uniform Commercial Code;
(g) I express no opinion as to the enforceability of any provision of any Transaction Agreement to the extent it purports to waive any objection a person may have that a suit, action or proceeding has been brought in an inconvenient forum or a forum lacking subject matter jurisdiction;
(h) for purposes of my opinion set forth in paragraph 5 above, I have assumed (a) the accuracy of the representations and warranties and compliance with the agreements made by the Dealer in the Dealer Agreements (b) compliance by the Dealer with the offering and transfer procedures and restrictions required by the Dealer Agreements including, without limitation, the delivery to each purchaser of the Notes of an offering memorandum containing a legend restricting offers, sales and resales of the Notes in the form required by the Dealer Agreements and (c) the accuracy of the representations and warranties made in accordance with such offering memorandum by the initial purchasers of the Notes; and
(i) I express no opinion as to the enforceability of Section 7.3(a) of either Dealer Agreement.
At the request of the Company, this opinion letter is, pursuant to Section 3.6 of each Dealer Agreement, provided to you by me in my capacity as in-house counsel of the Company and may not be relied upon by any person for any purpose other than in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements without, in each instance, my prior written consent. No opinion is implied or is to be inferred beyond the opinions expressly stated above. I assume no obligation to update this letter for events, changes in law or circumstances occurring after the date of this opinion.
Very truly yours,
Schedule I to Opinion
Goldman, Sachs & Co., as Dealer for the Notes (under and as defined in the Goldman Dealer Agreement)
Banc of America Securities LLC, as Dealer for Notes (as defined in the BoA Dealer Agreement)
Exhibit A
Form of Legend for Private Placement Memorandum and Notes
THE NOTES HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "ACT"), OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAW, AND OFFERS AND SALES THEREOF MAY BE MADE ONLY IN COMPLIANCE WITH AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF A NOTE, THE PURCHASER WILL BE DEEMED TO REPRESENT THAT (I) IT HAS BEEN AFFORDED AN OPPORTUNITY TO INVESTIGATE MATTERS RELATING TO THE ISSUER AND THE NOTES, (II) IT IS NOT ACQUIRING SUCH NOTE WITH A VIEW TO ANY DISTRIBUTION THEREOF AND (III) IT IS EITHER (A)(1) AN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR THAT IS AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 501(a) UNDER THE ACT (AN "INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR" AND (2)(i) PURCHASING NOTES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT, (ii) A BANK (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 3(a)(2) OF THE ACT) OR A SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION OR OTHER INSTITUTION (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 3(a)(5)(A) OF THE ACT) ACTING IN ITS INDIVIDUAL OR FIDUCIARY CAPACITY OR (iii) A FIDUCIARY OR AGENT (OTHER THAN A U.S. BANK OR SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION) PURCHASING NOTES FOR ONE OR MORE ACCOUNTS EACH OF WHICH ACCOUNTS IS SUCH AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR; OR (B) A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER ("QIB") WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE ACT THAT IS ACQUIRING NOTES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR ONE OR MORE ACCOUNTS, EACH OF WHICH ACCOUNTS IS A QIB; AND THE PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT IS AWARE THAT THE SELLER MAY RELY UPON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF A NOTE, THE PURCHASER THEREOF SHALL ALSO BE DEEMED TO AGREE THAT ANY RESALE OR OTHER TRANSFER THEREOF WILL BE MADE ONLY (A) IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT, EITHER (1) TO THE ISSUER OR TO A PLACEMENT AGENT DESIGNATED BY THE ISSUER AS A PLACEMENT AGENT FOR THE NOTES (COLLECTIVELY, THE "PLACEMENT AGENTS"), NONE OF WHICH SHALL HAVE ANY OBLIGATION TO ACQUIRE SUCH NOTE, (2) THROUGH A PLACEMENT AGENT TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR OR A QIB, OR (3) TO A QIB IN A TRANSACTION THAT MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A AND (B) IN MINIMUM AMOUNTS OF $250,000.
Exhibit B
Further Provisions Relating to Indemnification
Exhibit C
Statement of Terms for Interest  Bearing Commercial Paper Notes of CME Group Inc.
THE PROVISIONS SET FORTH BELOW ARE QUALIFIED TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE BY THE TRANSACTION SPECIFIC [PRICING] [PRIVATE PLACEMENT MEMORANDUM] SUPPLEMENT (THE "SUPPLEMENT") (IF ANY) SENT TO EACH PURCHASER AT THE TIME OF THE TRANSACTION.
(b) "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, executive order or regulation to be closed in New York City and, with respect to LIBOR Notes (as defined below) is also a London Business Day. "London Business Day" means, a day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
(b) The Supplement sent to each holder of such Note will describe the following terms: (i) whether such Note is a Fixed Rate Note or a Floating Rate Note and whether such Note is an Original Issue Discount Note (as defined below); (ii) the date on which such Note will be issued (the "Issue Date"); (iii) the Stated Maturity Date (as defined below); (iv) if such Note is a Fixed Rate Note, the rate per annum at which such Note will bear interest, if any, and the Interest Payment Dates; (v) if such Note is a Floating Rate Note, the Base Rate, the Index Maturity, the Interest Reset Dates, the Interest Payment Dates and the Spread and/or Spread Multiplier, if any (all as defined below), and any other terms relating to the particular method of calculating the interest rate for such Note; and (vi) any other terms applicable specifically to such Note. "Original Issue Discount Note" means a Note which has a stated redemption price at the Stated Maturity Date that exceeds its Issue Price by more than a specified de minimis amount and which the Supplement indicates will be an "Original Issue Discount Note".
(c) Each Fixed Rate Note will bear interest from its Issue Date at the rate per annum specified in the Supplement until the principal amount thereof is paid or made available for payment. Interest on each Fixed Rate Note will be payable on the dates specified in the Supplement (each an "Interest Payment Date" for a Fixed Rate Note) and on the Maturity Date (as defined below). Interest on Fixed Rate Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date of a Fixed Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest will be payable on the next succeeding Business Day, and no additional interest will accrue in respect of the payment made on that next succeeding Business Day.
(d) The interest rate on each Floating Rate Note for each Interest Reset Period (as defined below) will be determined by reference to an interest rate basis (a "Base Rate") plus or minus a number of basis points (one basis point equals one-hundredth of a percentage point) (the "Spread"), if any, and/or multiplied by a certain percentage (the "Spread Multiplier"), if any, until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment. The Supplement will designate which of the following Base Rates is applicable to the related Floating Rate Note: (a) the CD Rate (a "CD Rate Note"), (b) the Commercial Paper Rate (a "Commercial Paper Rate Note"), (c) the Federal Funds Rate (a "Federal Funds Rate Note"), (d) LIBOR (a "LIBOR Note"), (e) the Prime Rate (a "Prime Rate Note"), (f) the Treasury Rate (a "Treasury Rate Note") or (g) such other Base Rate as may be specified in such Supplement.
The rate of interest on each Floating Rate Note will be reset daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly or semi-annually (the "Interest Reset Period"). The date or dates on which interest will be reset (each an "Interest Reset Date") will be, unless otherwise specified in the Supplement, in the case of Floating Rate Notes which reset daily, each Business Day, in the case of Floating Rate Notes (other than Treasury Rate Notes) that reset weekly, the Wednesday of each week; in the case of Treasury Rate Notes that reset weekly, the Tuesday of each week; in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset monthly, the third Wednesday of each month; in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset quarterly, the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December; and in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset semiannually, the third Wednesday of the two months specified in the Supplement. If any Interest Reset Date for any Floating Rate Note is not a Business Day, such Interest Reset Date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that in the case of a LIBOR Note, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Reset Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. Interest on each Floating Rate Note will be payable monthly, quarterly or semiannually (the "Interest Payment Period") and on the Maturity Date. Unless otherwise specified in the Supplement, and except as provided below, the date or dates on which interest will be payable (each an "Interest Payment Date" for a Floating Rate Note) will be, in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a monthly Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of each month; in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a quarterly Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December; and in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a semiannual Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of the two months specified in the Supplement. In addition, the Maturity Date will also be an Interest Payment Date.
If any Interest Payment Date for any Floating Rate Note (other than an Interest Payment Date occurring on the Maturity Date) would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that in the case of a LIBOR Note, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. If the Maturity Date of a Floating Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of principal and interest will be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after such maturity.
Interest payments on each Interest Payment Date for Floating Rate Notes will include accrued interest from and including the Issue Date or from and including the last date in respect of which interest has been paid, as the case may be, to, but excluding, such Interest Payment Date. On the Maturity Date, the interest payable on a Floating Rate Note will include interest accrued to, but excluding, the Maturity Date. Accrued interest will be calculated by multiplying the principal amount of a Floating Rate Note by an accrued interest factor. This accrued interest factor will be computed by adding the interest factors calculated for each day in the period for which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor (expressed as a decimal) for each such day will be computed by dividing the interest rate applicable to such day by 360, in the cases where the Base Rate is the CD Rate, Commercial Paper Rate, Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR or Prime Rate, or by the actual number of days in the year, in the case where the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate. The interest rate in effect on each day will be (i) if such day is an Interest Reset Date, the interest rate with respect to the Interest Determination Date (as defined below) pertaining to such Interest Reset Date, or (ii) if such day is not an Interest Reset Date, the interest rate with respect to the Interest Determination Date pertaining to the next preceding Interest Reset Date, subject in either case to any adjustment by a Spread and/or a Spread Multiplier.
The "Interest Determination Date" where the Base Rate is the CD Rate or the Commercial Paper Rate will be the second Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is the Federal Funds Rate or the Prime Rate will be the Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is LIBOR will be the second London Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate will be the day of the week in which such Interest Reset Date falls when Treasury Bills are normally auctioned. Treasury Bills are normally sold at auction on Monday of each week, unless that day is a legal holiday, in which case the auction is held on the following Tuesday or the preceding Friday. If an auction is so held on the preceding Friday, such Friday will be the Interest Determination Date pertaining to the Interest Reset Date occurring in the next succeeding week.
The "Index Maturity" is the period to maturity of the instrument or obligation from which the applicable Base Rate is calculated.
The "Calculation Date," where applicable, shall be the earlier of (i) the tenth calendar day following the applicable Interest Determination Date or (ii) the Business Day preceding the applicable Interest Payment Date or Maturity Date.
All times referred to herein reflect New York City time, unless otherwise specified.
The Issuer shall specify in writing to the Issuing and Paying Agent which party will be the calculation agent (the "Calculation Agent") with respect to the Floating Rate Notes. The Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate then in effect and, if determined, the interest rate which will become effective on the next Interest Reset Date with respect to such Floating Rate Note to the Issuing and Paying Agent as soon as the interest rate with respect to such Floating Rate Note has been determined and as soon as practicable after any change in such interest rate.
All percentages resulting from any calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point, with five-one millionths of a percentage point rounded upwards. For example, 9.876545% (or .09876545) would be rounded to 9.87655% (or         .0987655). All dollar amounts used in or resulting from any calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded, in the case of U.S. dollars, to the nearest cent or, in the case of a foreign currency, to the nearest unit (with one-half cent or unit being rounded upwards).
CD Rate Notes
"CD Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date for negotiable certificates of deposit having the Index Maturity as published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "FRB") in "Statistical Release H.15(519), Selected Interest Rates" or any successor publication of the FRB ("H.15(519)") under the heading "CDs (Secondary Market)".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the CD Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date set forth in the daily update of H.15(519), available through the world wide website of the FRB at http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/Update, or any successor site or publication or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate ("H.15 Daily Update") under the caption "CDs (Secondary Market)".
If such rate is not published in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the CD Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the secondary market offered rates as of 10:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date of three leading nonbank dealers in negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit of major United States money center banks of the highest credit standing in the market for negotiable certificates of deposit with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity in the denomination of $5,000,000.
If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, the CD Rate will remain the CD Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
Commercial Paper Rate Notes
"Commercial Paper Rate" means the Money Market Yield (calculated as described below) of the rate on any Interest Determination Date for commercial paper having the Index Maturity, as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, then the Commercial Paper Rate will be the Money Market Yield of the rate on such Interest Determination Date for commercial paper of the Index Maturity as published in H.15 Daily Update under the heading "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial".
If by 3:00 p.m. on such Calculation Date such rate is not published in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update, then the Calculation Agent will determine the Commercial Paper Rate to be the Money Market Yield of the arithmetic mean of the offered rates as of 11:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date of three leading dealers of U.S. dollar commercial paper in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for commercial paper of the Index Maturity placed for an industrial issuer whose bond rating is "AA," or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned above, the Commercial Paper Rate with respect to such Interest Determination Date will remain the Commercial Paper Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
Federal Funds Rate Notes
"Federal Funds Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date for federal funds as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Federal Funds (Effective)" and displayed on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on page 120 (or any other page as may replace the specified page on that service) ("Telerate Page 120").
If the above rate does not appear on Telerate Page 120 or is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update under the heading "Federal Funds/(Effective)".
If such rate is not published as described above by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the Federal Funds Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight U.S. dollar federal funds arranged by each of three leading brokers of Federal Funds transactions in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent prior to 9:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date.
If the brokers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned above, the Federal Funds Rate will remain the Federal Funds Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
LIBOR Notes
The London Interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date, the rate for deposits in U.S. dollars having the Index Maturity that appears on the Designated LIBOR Page as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date.
If no rate appears, LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date at which deposits in U.S. dollars are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in such market selected by the Calculation Agent for a term equal to the Index Maturity and in principal amount equal to an amount that in the Calculation Agent's judgment is representative for a single transaction in U.S. dollars in such market at such time (a "Representative Amount"). The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such interest period will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., in New York City, on such Interest Determination Date by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a term equal to the Index Maturity and in a Representative Amount; provided, however, that if fewer than three banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are providing such quotations, the then existing LIBOR rate will remain in effect for such Interest Payment Period.
"Designated LIBOR Page" means the display which appears on Reuters Screen LIBOR01, Inc. (or such other page as may replace such page on that service or such other service or services as may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits).
Prime Rate Notes
"Prime Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Bank Prime Loan".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) prior to 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, then the Prime Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update opposite the caption "Bank Prime Loan".
If the rate is not published prior to 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update, then the Calculation Agent will determine the Prime Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the rates of interest publicly announced by each bank that appears on the Reuters Screen US PRIME1 Page (as defined below) as such bank's prime rate or base lending rate as of 11:00 a.m., on that Interest Determination Date.
If fewer than four such rates referred to above are so published by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the Prime Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the prime rates or base lending rates quoted on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by 360 as of the close of business on such Interest Determination Date by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.
If the banks selected are not quoting as mentioned above, the Prime Rate will remain the Prime Rate in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
"Reuters Screen US PRIME1 Page" means the display designated as page "US PRIME1" on the Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service (or such other page as may replace the US PRIME1 page on that service for the purpose of displaying prime rates or base lending rates of major United States banks).
Treasury Rate Notes
"Treasury Rate" means:
(1) the rate from the auction held on the Interest Determination Date (the "Auction") of direct obligations of the United States ("Treasury Bills") having the Index Maturity specified in the Supplement under the caption "INVESTMENT RATE" on the display on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on page 56 (or any other page as may replace that page on that service) ("Telerate Page 56") or page 57 (or any other page as may replace that page on that service) ("Telerate Page 57"), or
(2) if the rate referred to in clause (1) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield (as defined below) of the rate for the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Auction High", or
(3) if the rate referred to in clause (2) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the auction rate of the applicable Treasury Bills as announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or
(4) if the rate referred to in clause (3) is not so announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or if the Auction is not held, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15(519) under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market", or
(5) if the rate referred to in clause (4) not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market", or
(6) if the rate referred to in clause (5) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Bond Equivalent Yield of the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of approximately 3:30 p.m. on that Interest Determination Date, of three primary United States government securities dealers selected by the Calculation Agent, for the issue of Treasury Bills with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified in the Supplement, or
(7) if the dealers so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in clause (6), the Treasury Rate in effect on the particular Interest Determination Date.
"Bond Equivalent Yield" means a yield (expressed as a percentage) calculated in accordance with the following formula:
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for Treasury Bills quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal, "N" refers to 365 or 366, as the case may be, and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the applicable Interest Reset Period.
Exhibit D
Further Settlement Provisions
In the case of any agreement by the Dealer to purchase a Note hereunder (other than as agent) which provides for a settlement date that is three New York Business Days or more after the date of such agreement, the obligation of the Dealer to purchase the Note under such agreement shall be subject to the following conditions:
"New York Business Day" shall mean each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in New York are generally authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.


