FILE:CME/CME-8K-20081106181011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 on Form 8-K/A amends and supplements the Current Report on Form 8-K of CME Group Inc., a Delaware corporation ("CME Group"), filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on September 15, 2008 (the "Initial Form 8-K"), to include the financial statements and pro forma financial information of NYMEX Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("NYMEX Holdings"), permitted to be excluded from the Initial 8-K by Items 9.01(b)(2) and 9.01(a)(4), respectively, of Form 8-K if filed by amendment to the Initial Form 8-K no later than 71 calendar days after the date on which the Initial Form 8-K was required to be filed. As previously reported in the Initial Form 8-K, on August 22, 2008, CME Group completed its acquisition of NYMEX Holdings, through the merger of NYMEX Holdings with and into CMEG NY Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of CME Group ("Merger Sub"), pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 17, 2008, and as amended as of June 30, 2008, July 18, 2008 and August 7, 2008, by and among CME Group, Merger Sub, NYMEX Holdings and New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc., a Delaware non-stock corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of NYMEX Holdings.
 
 
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of NYMEX Holdings as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007, and the independent registered public accounting firm's reports related thereto, were previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to CME Group Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on August 1, 2008, File No. 001-31553.
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of NYMEX Holdings as of June 30, 2008, and for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, were previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to CME Group Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on September 15, 2008, File No. 001-31553.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information of CME Group as of June 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, and for the six months ended June 30, 2008, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
See Exhibit Index.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 6, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is derived from the historical financial statements of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc. ("CME Holdings" and the predecessor to CME Group Inc. ("CME Group")), CBOT Holdings, Inc. ("CBOT Holdings") and NYMEX Holdings, Inc. ("NYMEX Holdings"). The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is prepared using the purchase method of accounting, as defined by Financial Accounting Standard Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, "SFAS," No. 141, , with CME Group treated as the acquirer. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2008 is presented as if the merger with NYMEX Holdings and the estimated borrowings used to finance the merger occurred on June 30, 2008. The merger with CBOT Holdings was completed on July 12, 2007, and as such the acquired CBOT Holdings assets and liabilities are reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet at June 30, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the six months ended June 30, 2008 is presented as if the CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings mergers and any related merger financing occurred on January 1, 2007.
Business Combinations
CME Group and NYMEX Holdings combined their businesses under CME Group, a Delaware corporation. Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated March 17, 2008, and as amended June 30, 2008, July 18, 2008 and August 7, 2008, by and among CME Group, CMEG NY Inc., a Delaware corporation and a subsidiary of CME Group ("Merger Sub"), NYMEX Holdings and New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. ("NYMEX") (the "Merger Agreement"), at the effective time of the merger, each issued and outstanding share of NYMEX Holdings common stock (other than shares owned by CME Group or NYMEX Holdings or any of their respective wholly-owned subsidiaries and any dissenting shares) was converted into the right to receive, at the election of each NYMEX Holdings shareholder, consideration in the form of CME Group Class A common stock (the "Stock Election") or cash (the "Cash Election"). The cash consideration per share of NYMEX Holdings common stock for which a Cash Election was made was equal to $81.16, the sum of (i) 36.00 plus (ii) the product of (a) 0.1323 (defined as the "Exchange Ratio" for purposes of preparing the pro forma financials) times (b) $341.3720, the average closing sale price of CME Group Class A common stock on the Nasdaq for the period of ten consecutive trading days ending on the second full trading day prior to the effective time of the merger (the "Average CME Group Share Price"). The stock consideration per share of NYMEX Holdings common stock for which a Stock Election was made was 0.2378 shares of CME Group's Class A common stock, which is equal to the cash consideration per share divided by the Average CME Group Share Price. The cash and stock consideration payable in the merger was subject to proration based on an approximately $3.4 billion mandatory cash component. Because the mandatory cash component was undersubscribed, NYMEX Holdings stockholders who elected to receive stock consideration in the merger received, per share of NYMEX Holdings common stock, approximately $7.29 in cash and 0.2164 shares of CME Group's Class A common stock, plus additional cash in lieu of any fractional shares.
The allocation of the purchase price used in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is based on preliminary estimates. The estimates and assumptions are subject to change. The final determination of the allocation of the purchase price will be based on the actual tangible assets and liabilities, and intangible assets of NYMEX Holdings as of the effective time of the merger, as well as merger-related transaction costs. Under US generally accepted accounting principles ("US GAAP"), CME Group will have one year from the effective time of the merger to finalize the allocation of the purchase price.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect the special dividend of $5.00 per share of CME Group's Class A and Class B common stock that CME Group declared on August 22, 2008 to be paid on October 10, 2008 to shareholders of record as of September 25, 2008. The dividend was approximately $335.7 million.
Certain historical balances of NYMEX Holdings have been reclassified to conform to the pro forma combined presentation. Management expects that there could be additional reclassifications following the merger. Additionally, management will continue to assess NYMEX Holdings' accounting policies for any additional adjustments that may be required to conform NYMEX Holdings' accounting policies to those of CME Group.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only, addresses a hypothetical situation and therefore is not intended to represent the consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations of CME Group that would have been reported had the mergers been completed as of the dates described above, and should not be taken as indicative of any future consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income do not reflect any revenue or cost savings from synergies that may be achieved with respect to the combined companies, or the impact of non-recurring items, including restructuring liabilities, directly related to the merger other than those realized from the CBOT Holdings merger and included in historical results for CME Group.
        The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of CME Group, CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings included in CME Group's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28, 2008 for the period ending December 31, 2007, CME Group's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 7, 2008 for the period ending June 30, 2008, CME Group's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on August 1, 2008 and CME Group's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on September 15, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is derived from the historical financial statements of CME Holdings (the predecessor to the CME Group), CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is prepared using the purchase method of accounting, with the Issuer treated as the acquirer. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2008 is presented as if the merger with NYMEX Holdings and the estimated borrowings used to finance the merger occurred on June 30, 2008. The merger with CBOT Holdings was completed on July 12, 2007, and as such the acquired CBOT Holdings assets and liabilities are reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet at June 30, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the quarter ended June 30, 2008 are presented as if the CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings mergers and any related merger financing occurred on January 1, 2007 with the actual results of CBOT Holdings included with CME Group beginning July 13, 2007.
In accordance with SFAS No. 141, , the purchase price has been allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on a preliminary estimate of NYMEX Holdings' fair values as of an assumed effective time of the merger of June 30, 2008. The excess of the purchase price over the net assets acquired has been recorded as goodwill. Significant assumptions and estimates have been used in determining the preliminary purchase price and preliminary allocation of the purchase price in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. Under US GAAP, CME Group has one year from the effective time of the merger to finalize the allocation of the purchase price.
Business Combinations
Certain historical balances of CME Group, CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings have been reclassified in the financial statements to conform to the pro forma combined presentation. Management expects that there could be additional reclassifications in both the balance sheet and statement of income following the merger. Additionally, management will continue to assess NYMEX Holdings' accounting policies for any additional adjustments that may be required to conform NYMEX Holdings' accounting policies to those of CME Group.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for informational purposes only and is not intended to represent the consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations of CME Group that would have been reported had the merger been completed as of the dates described above, and should not be taken as indicative of any future consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income do not reflect any revenue or cost savings synergies that may be achieved with respect to the combined companies, or the impact of non-recurring items, including restructuring liabilities, directly related to the merger other than those realized from the CBOT Holdings merger and included in historical results for CME Group.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of CME Group, CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings included in CME Group's Annual Reports on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28, 2008 for the period ending December 31, 2007, CME Group's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 7, 2008 for the period ending June 30, 2008, CME Group's Current Report on 8-K, filed with the SEC on August 1, 2008 and CME Group's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on September 15, 2008.
2. Purchase Price
On March 17, 2008, CME Group and NYMEX Holdings entered into a definitive merger agreement. The merger became effective on August 22, 2008.
Due to the recency of the merger's effective time, the preliminary purchase price for NYMEX Holdings discussed below, is estimated based on information which has previously been made publicly available. The actual purchase price will be based on the value of CME Group Class A common stock issued to the NYMEX Holdings shareholders, cash paid in lieu of CME Group Class A common stock to the NYMEX Holdings shareholders, the fair value of NYMEX Holdings stock options and restricted stock units exchanged for CME Group stock options and restricted stock awards, and the actual transaction-related costs of CME Group.
 
The allocation of the estimated purchase price discussed below is also preliminary. Under US GAAP, CME Group has one year from the effective time of the merger to finalize the allocation of the purchase price. The final allocation of the purchase price will be based on the fair value of the assets and liabilities of NYMEX Holdings at the effective time of the merger. Any increases or decreases in the fair value of assets and liabilities will result in an adjustment to goodwill.
For purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, CME Group has used NYMEX Holdings' assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2008 as the basis for developing fair value estimates. The final valuation of identifiable intangible assets may change significantly from the preliminary estimates, which could result in a material change in the amortization of intangible assets. The fair value of stock-based payments exchanged and the portion of value associated with unearned stock-based compensation could change based on stock-based payment activity through the effective time of the merger, which could materially change the valuation of stock-based payments and the unearned stock-based compensation charges recorded as of the effective time of the merger, as well as the associated future stock-based compensation expense. Additionally, changes in the balances of NYMEX Holdings' cash, marketable securities and other tangible assets and liabilities could be substantial from June 30, 2008 to the effective time of the merger.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not include all of the potential effects of restructuring certain activities of pre-merger CME Group's or NYMEX Holdings' operations, nor does it include any additional borrowings that may be required to finance any related restructuring activities. These restructuring liabilities, once determined, may be material and may include additional costs for severance, costs of vacating facilities and costs to exit or terminate other duplicative activities. Liabilities related to restructuring NYMEX Holdings' operations could be recorded as an adjustment to the purchase price and an increase in goodwill. Liabilities related to restructuring CME Group's operations would be recorded as expenses in CME Group's statements of income in the period that the costs are incurred.
CME Group assumed the holders of NYMEX Holdings common stock would receive approximately $3,412,764,000 of cash consideration. Based on this assumption, the total preliminary purchase price was estimated at $9,540,472,000, including estimated NYMEX Holdings stock options and restricted stock units exchanged and merger-related transaction costs. The preliminary purchase price consists of the following:
 
 
 
 
The purchase price will be allocated to NYMEX Holdings' tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as of the effective time of the merger. The following is a summary of the preliminary purchase price allocation as reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet at June 30, 2008:
 
3. NYMEX Holdings Merger Pro Forma Adjustments
 
 
 
        In connection with the merger, NYMEX, NYMEX Holdings and CME Group agreed that if the merger was consummated, each NYMEX Class A member, as of the effective time of the merger, who executes and delivers a waiver and release of any and all claims against NYMEX, NYMEX Holdings, CME Group or any of their affiliates within sixty days after the consummation of the merger (by October 21, 2008) will receive a Membership Rights Payment of $750,000 with respect to each NYMEX Class A membership such member owns of record, or a total of approximately $612.0 million if all members execute a waiver and release (the "Membership Rights Payment"). A portion of marketable securities is assumed to be liquidated in order to provide funding for the Membership Rights Payment as well as merger-related non-recurring costs.
 
 
 
Depreciation expense has been calculated using a straight-line method over the estimated useful life.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pro forma interest expense adjustments were calculated as follows:
 
An interest rate change of 1/8th of one percent would have a $3.9 million impact on the anticipated total annual interest expense.
Beginning August 28, 2008, CME Group repaid all amounts outstanding under the $1.3 billion 364-day senior unsecured revolving loan facility with certain financial institutions and other persons party thereto as lenders and Bank of America, N.A. as agent for such lenders (the "Bridge Facility") with proceeds of borrowings of $1.9 billion under its commercial paper program for the issuance from time to time of unsecured commercial paper notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2.3 billion. The commercial paper was issued with interest rates ranging from 2.1% to 2.3%.
 
 
 
 
4. CBOT Holdings Merger Pro Forma Adjustments
 
 
 
 
 
 


