FILE:CME/CME-8K-20091203171036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
CME Group Inc. (the "Company") hereby files the information in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Income of CME Group Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2008, which updates the Company's previously filed pro forma information filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on a Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed with the SEC on November 7, 2008.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 3, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is derived from the historical financial statements of CME Group Inc. ("CME Group")) and NYMEX Holdings, Inc. ("NYMEX Holdings"). The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is prepared using the purchase method of accounting, as defined by accounting guidance on business combinations, with CME Group treated as the acquirer. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement for the year ended December 31, 2008 is presented as if the NYMEX Holdings merger and any related merger financing occurred on January 1, 2008.
CME Group and NYMEX Holdings combined their businesses under CME Group, a Delaware corporation. Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated March 17, 2008, and as amended June 30, 2008, July 18, 2008 and August 7, 2008, by and among CME Group, CMEG NY Inc., a Delaware corporation and a subsidiary of CME Group ("Merger Sub"), NYMEX Holdings and New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. ("NYMEX") (the "Merger Agreement"), at the effective time of the merger, each issued and outstanding share of NYMEX Holdings common stock (other than shares owned by CME Group or NYMEX Holdings or any of their respective wholly-owned subsidiaries and any dissenting shares) was converted into the right to receive, at the election of each NYMEX Holdings shareholder, consideration in the form of CME Group Class A common stock (the "Stock Election") or cash (the "Cash Election"). The cash consideration per share of NYMEX Holdings common stock for which a Cash Election was made was equal to $81.16, the sum of (i) 36.00 plus (ii) the product of (a) 0.1323 (defined as the "Exchange Ratio" for purposes of preparing the pro forma financials) times (b) $341.3720, the average closing sale price of CME Group Class A common stock on the Nasdaq for the period of ten consecutive trading days ending on the second full trading day prior to the effective time of the merger (the "Average CME Group Share Price"). The stock consideration per share of NYMEX Holdings common stock for which a Stock Election was made was 0.2378 shares of CME Group's Class A common stock, which is equal to the cash consideration per share divided by the Average CME Group Share Price. The cash and stock consideration payable in the merger was subject to proration based on an approximately $3.4 billion mandatory cash component. Since the mandatory cash component was undersubscribed, NYMEX Holdings stockholders who elected to receive stock consideration in the merger received, per share of NYMEX Holdings common stock, approximately $7.29 in cash and 0.2164 shares of CME Group's Class A common stock, plus additional cash in lieu of any fractional shares.
The allocation of the purchase price used in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is based on actual tangible assets and liabilities, and intangible assets of NYMEX Holdings as of the effective time of the merger, as well as merger-related transaction costs.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect the special dividend of $5.00 per share of CME Group's Class A and Class B common stock that CME Group declared on August 22, 2008 to be paid on October 10, 2008 to shareholders of record as of September 25, 2008. The dividend was approximately $335.7 million.
Certain historical balances of NYMEX Holdings have been reclassified to conform to the pro forma combined presentation.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only, addresses a hypothetical situation and therefore is not intended to represent the consolidated results of operations of CME Group that would have been reported had the mergers been completed as of the dates described above, and should not be taken as indicative of any future consolidated results of operations. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income do not reflect any revenue or cost savings from synergies that may be achieved with respect to the combined companies, or the impact of non-recurring items, including restructuring liabilities, directly related to the merger other than those realized from NYMEX Holdings merger and included in historical results for CME Group.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of CME Group and NYMEX Holdings included in CME Group's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 2, 2009 for the period ending December 31, 2008, CME Group's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 15, 2008 and CME Group's Current Report on Form 8-K/A, filed with the SEC on November 7, 2008.
 
1. Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is derived from the historical financial statements of CME Group and NYMEX Holdings. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is prepared using the purchase method of accounting, with CME Group treated as the acquirer. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 are presented as if the NYMEX Holdings mergers and any related merger financing occurred on January 1, 2008.
According to accounting guidance on business combinations, the purchase price has been allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on NYMEX Holdings' fair values as of August 22, 2008. The excess of the purchase price over the net assets acquired has been recorded as goodwill. Significant assumptions and estimates have been used in determining the purchase price and allocation of the purchase price in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information.
Certain historical balances of CME Group and NYMEX Holdings have been reclassified in the financial statements to conform to the pro forma combined presentation.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for informational purposes only and is not intended to represent the consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations of CME Group that would have been reported had the merger been completed as of the dates described above, and should not be taken as indicative of any future consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income do not reflect any revenue or cost savings synergies that may be achieved with respect to the combined companies, or the impact of non-recurring items, including restructuring liabilities, directly related to the merger other than those realized from the NYMEX Holdings mergers and included in historical results for CME Group.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of CME Group and NYMEX Holdings included in CME Group's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 2, 2009 for the period ending December 31, 2008, CME Group's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 15, 2008 and CME Group's Current Report on Form 8-K/A, filed with the SEC on November 7, 2008.
2. NYMEX Holdings Merger Pro Forma Adjustments
 
 
Depreciation expense has been calculated using a straight-line method over the estimated useful life.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pro forma interest expense adjustments were calculated as follows:
 
An interest rate change of
 1
/
8
th of one percent would have a $2.6 million impact on the anticipated total annual interest expense.
 
 


