FILE:CME/CME-8K-20090806172104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On August 5, 2009, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors (the Board) of CME Group Inc. (the Company) recommended and the Board approved revised employment agreements for Craig S. Donohue, the Companys Chief Executive Officer, and Phupinder S. Gill, the Companys President.
The following is a summary of the key terms of the agreements, which replace the existing agreements for such officers as of August 5, 2009.  Copies of the employment agreements for Messrs. Donohue and Gill are attached to this report as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference as though they were fully set forth herein. The descriptions below are only a summary of the terms of agreements and are qualified in their entirety by the complete text of the employment agreements themselves.
Donohue Employment Agreement
Under the terms of his agreement, Mr. Donohue will be entitled to receive a minimum annual base salary of $850,000 for 2009 and of $1,000,000 thereafter during the term of the agreement.  Mr. Donohue is also eligible to receive an annual bonus under the Companys bonus incentive plan for its named executive officers with a threshold of 75% of base salary, a target of 150% of base salary and a maximum of 300% of base salary.  Under his agreement, Mr. Donohue will participate in the Companys equity incentive program with an annual target equity award of not less than 350% of base salary with grants to be comprised of 50% restricted stock and 50% stock options.
In the event of a termination by the Company without cause or by Mr. Donohue for good reason, as such terms are defined in the agreement, in addition to his accrued benefits, Mr. Donohue is entitled to a one-time lump sum severance payment equal to two times the sum of his then current base salary plus the amount of the threshold bonus amount under the Companys annual bonus incentive plan for that year, subject to Mr. Donohues timely execution and delivery of a general release.  Additionally, in such event all of Mr. Donohues outstanding unvested equity awards will automatically vest and any stock options that were granted during the term of the new agreement will remain exerciseable for a period of four years from the date of termination.
In the event of a change of control, as defined in the agreement, prior to termination of Mr. Donohues employment, all of Mr. Donohues unvested equity awards will have vesting accelerated so as to vest within one year of the change in control, provided that during such one-year period Mr. Donohue is not terminated by the Company for cause, as defined in the agreement.  In the event Mr. Donohue is involuntarily terminated without cause or resigns for good reason within 60 days prior to a change of control, all of his unvested equity awards that would have been outstanding had he been employed as of the date of the change of control shall become vested and any stock options that were granted during the term of the new agreement will remain exerciseable for a period of four years from the date of termination.
In the event of Mr. Donohues death or disability, as defined in the agreement, all equity awards granted during the term of the new agreement will vest with an exercise period of four years from the date of the event.
At the expiration of the term of the agreement, all awards granted to Mr. Donohue during the term of the new agreement will vest and remain exercisable for a period of four years.
All equity awards granted to Mr. Donohue prior to the effective date of the new agreement shall be governed by the terms and conditions of such awards at the time of grant, including the applicable provisions of Mr. Donohues previous employment agreement.
The agreement also contains provisions prohibiting Mr. Donohue during the term of his employment, and for one year thereafter, from rendering services to any derivatives exchange or person providing clearing services and from soliciting the Companys employees.
Mr. Donohues agreement expires on December 31, 2012, unless sooner terminated by the Company or Mr. Donohue.
 
 
 
 
 
Gill Employment Agreement
Under the terms of his agreement, Mr. Gill is entitled to receive a minimum annual base salary of $600,000. Mr. Gill is also eligible to receive an annual bonus under the Companys bonus incentive plan for its named executive officers.  His current bonus opportunities are a threshold of 50% of base salary, a target of 100% of base salary and a maximum of 300% of base salary.  Under his agreement, Mr. Gill will participate in the Companys equity incentive program.  His current equity award opportunity is a target of 175% of base salary with grants to be comprised of 50% restricted stock and 50% stock options.
In the event of a termination by the Company without cause, as defined in the agreement, in addition to his accrued benefits, Mr. Gill is entitled to a one time lump sum severance payment equal to two times his base salary as of the date of termination for the remaining term of the agreement, if any, not to exceed two years of base salary and subject to Mr. Gills timely execution and delivery of a general release. Additionally, in such event all of Mr. Gills outstanding unvested equity awards that were granted during the term of the new agreement will automatically vest and stock options granted during the term of the new agreement will remain exerciseable for a period of four years from the date of termination.
In the event of a change of control, as defined in the agreement, prior to termination of Mr. Gills employment, all of Mr. Gills unvested equity awards shall become vested.  If Mr. Gill is involuntarily terminated without cause within 60 days prior to a change of control, all of his unvested equity awards that would have been outstanding had he been employed on the date of the change of control will become vested.
In the event of Mr. Gills death or disability, as defined in the agreement, all equity awards granted during the term of the new agreement will vest with an exercise period of four years from the date of the event.
At the expiration of the term of the agreement, all awards granted to Mr. Gill during the term of the new agreement will vest and remain exercisable for a period of four years.
Following the termination of the agreement at expiration or following any termination by the Company without cause, Mr. Gill will also be entitled to receive insurance and health benefits until the earlier to occur of (i) the fourth anniversary of the expiration or termination, as applicable, or (ii) the date Mr. Gill is covered by comparable insurance and health benefits.
The agreement also contains provisions prohibiting Mr. Gill during the term of his employment, and for one year thereafter, from rendering services to any derivatives exchange or person providing clearing services and from soliciting the Companys employees.
All equity awards granted to Mr. Gill prior to the effective date of the new agreement shall be governed by the terms and conditions of such awards at the time of grant, including the applicable provisions of Mr. Gills previous employment agreement.
Mr. Gills agreement will expire on December 31, 2013, unless sooner terminated by the Company or Mr. Gill.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 5 day of August, 2009, by and between CME GROUP INC. (), a Delaware corporation, having its principal place of business at 30 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois, and CRAIG S. DONOHUE ().
th
Employer
Executive
 
 
 
WHEREAS, on November 7, 2003, Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. ("") and Executive entered into an agreement (the ) whereby CME agreed to employ Employee as Chief Executive Officer and Employee accepted such employment;
CME
Original Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Original Agreement was restated in its entirety by a new agreement dated April 3, 2006 (the );
2006 Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the 2006 Agreement, as amended, expires on December 31, 2009 subject to renewal by mutual written agreement, and Employer has an interest in ensuring continuity of its leadership;
 
WHEREAS, Employer wishes to continue the services of Executive in the capacity of Chief Executive Officer upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and Executive wishes to accept such employment; and
 
WHEREAS, it is desirable that the 2006 Agreement be replaced by this Agreement so that, on and after the date of this Agreement, this Agreement shall contain the terms and conditions governing the employment of Executive in the capacity as Chief Executive Officer of Employer;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, the parties mutually agree as follows:
 
1.        .  Subject to the terms of the Agreement, Employer hereby agrees to continue to employ Executive during the Agreement Term as Chief Executive Officer and Executive hereby accepts such employment.  Executive shall report to Employers Board of Directors, or any successor to the Board of Directors (hereinafter,  shall mean the Board of Directors of Employer and/or any successor thereto).  The duties and responsibilities of Executive and his relations with the Board, its Chairman and its officers shall be consistent with the practice during his term as Chief Executive Officer to date.  Executives duties shall include, but not be limited to, the performance of all duties associated with executive oversight and management of Employer.  Executive will provide such business and professional services in the
Employment
Board
 
 
1
 
 
performance of his duties that are consistent with Executives position as Chief Executive Officer.  Executive shall devote his full time, ability and attention to the business of Employer during the Agreement Term.  During the Agreement Term, Executive shall comply with the Companys share ownership guidelines as in effect from time to time.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, nothing in the Agreement shall preclude Executive from participating in the affairs of any governmental, educational or other charitable institution, engaging in professional speaking and writing activities, and/or serving as a member of the board of directors of a publicly held corporation (except for a competitor of Employer), provided Executive notifies the Governance Committee of the Board prior to his participating in any such activities and as long as the Governance Committee does not determine that any such activities unreasonably interferes with or diminishes Employee's obligations under the Agreement.  Executive shall be entitled to retain all fees, royalties and other compensation derived from such activities, in addition to the compensation and other benefits payable to him under the Agreement, but shall disclose such fees to Employer.
 
2.        . Executive shall be employed hereunder for a term commencing on August 5, 2009 (the ""), and expiring on December 31, 2012, unless sooner terminated as herein provided (). The Agreement Term may be extended or renewed only by the mutual written agreement of the parties.
Agreement Term
Effective Date
Agreement Term
 
3.        .
Compensation
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
4.        . Executive shall be entitled to insurance, vacation and other employee benefits and perquisites commensurate with his position in accordance with Employers policies for executives in effect from time to time.  Without limiting the generality of the immediately preceding sentence, for each year during the Term of this Agreement, Executive shall be entitled to fully vested make-whole benefit accruals (or cash equivalents if the plan is terminated) under the Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. Senior Management Supplemental Deferred Savings Plan () equal to the amount of 401(k) Savings Plan Discretionary Contribution or Pension Plan contributions that would have been accrued under such plans but for the Internal Revenue Code limitation on compensation that can be considered under a qualified retirement plan, which accruals shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Deferred Savings Plan, as in effect from time to time. Executive acknowledges receipt of a summary of Employers employee benefits policies in effect as of the date of this Agreement
Benefits
Deferred Savings Plan
 
5.        . During the Agreement Term, Employer shall reimburse Executive, in accordance with Employers policies and procedures, for all proper expenses incurred by him in the performance of his duties hereunder.
Expense Reimbursement
 
6.        .
Termination
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.        . Executive acknowledges that the successful development of Employers services and products, including Employers trading programs and systems, current and potential customer and business relationships, and business strategies and plans requires substantial time and expense. Such efforts generate for Employer valuable and proprietary information () which gives Employer a business advantage over others who do not have such information. Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to the following: trade secrets, technical, business, proprietary or financial information of Employer not generally known to the public, business plans, proposals, past and current prospect and customer lists, trading methodologies, systems and programs, training materials, research data bases and computer software; but shall not include information
Confidential Information and Non-Compete
Confidential Information
 
 
13
 
 
or ideas acquired by Executive prior to his employment with Employer if such pre-existing information is generally known in the industry and is not proprietary to Employer.
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
8.        .
Non-solicitation
 
 
 
 
9.        . During the Agreement Term, Executive shall disclose to Employer and treat as confidential information all ideas, methodologies, product and technology applications that he develops during the course of his employment with Employer that relates directly or indirectly to Employers business. Executive hereby assigns to Employer his entire right, title and interest in and to all discoveries and improvements, patentable or otherwise, trade secrets and ideas, writings and copyrightable material, which may be conceived by Executive or developed or acquired by him during his employment with Employer, which may pertain directly or indirectly to the business of the Employer. Executive shall at any time during or after the
Intellectual Property
 
 
15
 
 
Agreement Term, upon Employers request, execute, acknowledge and deliver to Employer all instruments and do all other acts which are necessary or desirable to enable Employer to file and prosecute applications for, and to acquire, maintain and enforce, all patents, trademarks and copyrights in all countries with respect to intellectual property developed or which was being developed during Executives employment with Employer.
 
10.       . Executive agrees that given the nature of Employers business, the scope and duration of the restrictions in Sections 7, 8 and 9 are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate business interests of Employer and do not unduly interfere with Executives career or economic pursuits.  Executive recognizes and agrees that a breach of any or all of the provisions of Sections 7, 8 and 9 will constitute immediate and irreparable harm to Employers business, for which damages cannot be readily calculated and for which damages is an inadequate remedy. Accordingly, Executive acknowledges that Employer shall therefore be entitled to seek an injunction or injunctions to prevent any breach or threatened breach of any such Section. Executive agrees to reimburse Employer for all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys fees and costs, incurred by Employer in connection with the enforcement of its rights under Sections 7, 8 and 9 of this Agreement.
Remedies
 
11.       .  To the fullest extent provided by law, Employer will indemnify Executive against and hold him harmless from liabilities of whatsoever kind and nature which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against him at any time related to actions taken on behalf of the Employer, including any claims that arise after Executives termination of employment for any reason.  Employer will purchase Directors and Officers insurance coverage that will continue in effect both during the Agreement Term and, while potential liability exists, thereafter.
Indemnification
 
12.       . Sections 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of this Agreement shall survive and continue in full force and effect in accordance with their respective terms, notwithstanding any termination of the Agreement.
Survival
 
13.       . Except with respect to Sections 7, 8, and 9 any dispute or controversy between Employer and Executive, whether arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the breach of this Agreement, or otherwise, shall be settled by arbitration in Chicago, Illinois, in accordance with the following:
Arbitration
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14.       . All notices and other communications required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when (i) delivered personally or by overnight courier to the following address of the other party hereto (or such other address for such party as shall be specified by notice given pursuant to this Section) or (ii) sent by facsimile to the following facsimile number of the other party hereto (or such other facsimile number for such party as shall be specified by notice given pursuant to this Section), with the confirmatory copy delivered by overnight courier to the address of such party pursuant to this Section 14:
Notices
 
:
If to Employer, to
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If to Executive, to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15.       . Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective, valid and if appropriate, reformed under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable under applicable law or rule in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect the validity, legality or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement or the validity, legality or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction, but this Agreement shall be reformed, construed and enforced in such jurisdiction as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.
Severability
 
16.       .  This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes and preempts any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or between the parties, written or oral, which may have related in any manner to the subject matter hereof including without limitation the Original Agreement and the 2006 Agreement (except to the extent specifically provided in Section 6(i) hereof). No other agreement or amendment to this
Entire Agreement
 
 
18
 
 
Agreement shall be binding upon either party including, without limitation, any agreement or amendment made hereafter unless in writing, signed by both parties.
 
17.       . This Agreement shall be enforceable by Executive and his heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives, and by Employer and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
 
18.       . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois without regard to any states principles of conflict of laws.
Governing Law
 
19.       . Executive acknowledges that he has read, understood, and accepts the provisions of this Agreement.
Acknowledgment
 
20.       .  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
21.       .  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A.  The Agreement will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Agreement to fail to satisfy Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, Executive shall not be considered to have terminated employment with Employer for purposes of the Agreement and no payments shall be due to Executive under the Agreement which are payable upon termination of employment unless Executive would be considered to have incurred a separation from service from Employer within the meaning of Section 409A.  In addition, for purposes of the Agreement, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided to Executive pursuant to the Agreement shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A.  With respect to expenses eligible for reimbursement under the terms of the Agreement, (i) the amount of such expenses eligible for reimbursement in any taxable year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in another taxable year and (ii) any reimbursements of such expenses shall be made no later than the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the related expenses were incurred, except, in each case, to the extent that the right to reimbursement does not provide for a deferral of compensation within the meaning of Section 409A.
IRS Code Section 409A
 
 
19
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
20

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT, is entered into and effective as of August 5, 2009 (Effective Date) by and between CME Group Inc. (Employer or CME), a Delaware Business Corporation, having its principal place of business at 30 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois, and Phupinder Gill (Executive) and amends and restates the prior agreement between Executive and Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Inc, originally entered into on the 7th day of November 2003, as subsequently amended (the "Prior Agreement").
 
 
 
WHEREAS, Employer wishes to retain the services of Executive in the capacity of President, upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and Executive wishes to accept such employment;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, the parties mutually agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
.
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
If to CME, to:
Craig S. Donohue
Chief Executive Officer
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc.
30 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, IL 60606
(312) 930-3100
With a copy to:
Kathleen M. Cronin
Managing Director, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc.
30 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, IL 60606
(312) 930-3488
If to Executive, to:
Phupinder Gill
1833 Portsmouth
Westchester, IL 60154
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
11


