FILE:CME/CME-8K-20101115172323.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 9, 2010, CME Group Inc. (the "Company") entered into a revised employment agreement with Terrence A. Duffy, the Companys Executive Chairman of the Board. The following is a summary of the key terms of the agreement, which replaced Mr. Duffys existing agreement effective as of November 4, 2010. A copy of the employment agreement for Mr. Duffy is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1, and is incorporated herein by reference as though it was fully set forth herein. The description below is only a summary of the terms of agreement and is qualified in its entirety by the complete text of the employment agreement itself. Duffy Employment Agreement Under the terms of his agreement, Mr. Duffy is entitled to receive a minimum annual base salary of $1,000,000. Mr. Duffy is eligible to participate in the Companys bonus incentive plan for its named executive officers and in the Companys equity incentive plan. Mr. Duffy is also entitled to employee b enefits consistent with programs in place for other executives of the Company, including life insurance and long-term disability coverage. In the event of a termination of Mr. Duffy's employment by the Company without cause, as defined in the agreement, in addition to his accrued benefits, Mr. Duffy is entitled to a one time lump sum retention payment equal to the greater of (i) one times his then current base salary and (ii) the remaining base salary payable to Mr. Duffy during the agreement term but in no event more than two times his then current base salary, which payments are subject to Mr. Duffys timely execution and delivery of a general release. Additionally, upon such a termination all of Mr. Duffys outstanding unvested equity awards that were granted during the term of the revised employment agreement will automatically vest and stock options granted during the term of the revised employment agreement will remain exercisable for a period of four years from the date of termina tion (but not beyond the maximum term of the option). In the event of a change of control, as defined in the agreement, prior to termination of Mr. Duffys employment, all of Mr. Duffys unvested equity awards shall become vested. If Mr. Duffy is involuntarily terminated without cause within 60 days prior to a change of control, all of his unvested equity awards that would have been outstanding had he been employed on the date of the change of control will become vested. In the event of Mr. Duffys death or disability, as defined in the agreement, all equity awards granted during the term of the revised employment agreement will vest with an exercise period of four years from the date of the event (but not beyond the maximum term of the option). In the event of Mr. Duffys disability or following any termination of Mr. Duffys employment by him voluntarily or by the Company without cause, Mr. Duffy will also be entitled to receive insurance and heal th benefits until the earlier to occur of (i) the fourth anniversary of the expiration or termination, as applicable, or (ii) the date Mr. Duffy is covered by comparable insurance and health benefits. The agreement also contains provisions prohibiting Mr. Duffy during the term of his employment, and for one year thereafter, from rendering services to, or serving on the Board of Directors (or similar governing body) or any advisory committees of, any derivatives exchange or person, organization or entity providing clearing services and from soliciting the Companys employees. All equity awards granted to Mr. Duffy prior to the effective date of the revised agreement will continue to be governed by the terms and conditions of such awards at the time of grant. Mr. Duffys agreement will expire on the date of the Companys 2013 annual meeting of shareholders, unless sooner terminated by the Company or Mr. Duffy.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Agreement between CME Group Inc. and Terrence A. Duffy
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

THIS AGREEMENT, is signed as of November 9, 2010 and effective as of November 4, 2010 ("Effective Date") by and between CME Group Inc. ("Employer" or "CME"), a Delaware Business Corporation, having its principal place of business at 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois, and Terrence A. Duffy ("Executive").
WHEREAS, Employer wishes to continue to retain the services of Executive in the capacity of Executive Chairman of the Employer's Board of Directors (the "Board"), upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and Executive wishes to continue such employment;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, the parties mutually agree as follows:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, nothing in the Agreement shall preclude Executive from participating in the affairs of any governmental, educational or other charitable institution, engaging in professional speaking and writing activities, and serving as a member of the board of directors of a publicly held corporation (except for a competitor of Employer), provided Executive notifies the Governance Committee of the Board prior to his participating in any such activities and as long as the Governance Committee does not determine that any such activities interfere with or diminish Executive's obligations under the Agreement. Executive shall be entitled to retain all fees, royalties and other compensation derived from such activities, in addition to the compensation and other benefits payable to him under the Agreement, but shall disclose such fees to Employer.
The exercise of the right of CME to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 6(c) shall not abrogate any other rights or remedies of CME in respect of the breach giving rise to such termination.
If Employer terminates Executive's employment for Cause, Executive shall be entitled to accrued Base Salary through the date of the termination of his employment, other employee benefits to which Executive is entitled upon his termination of employment with Employer, in accordance with the terms of the plans and programs of CME. Upon termination for Cause, Executive will forfeit any unvested or unearned compensation or long-term incentives.
If to CME, to:
Board of Directors c/o Chairman of the Governance Committee CME Group Inc. 20 South Wacker Drive Chicago, IL 60606 (312) 930-3100
With a copy to:
Kathleen M. Cronin Managing Director, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. 20 South Wacker Drive Chicago, IL 60606 (312) 930-3488
If to Executive, to:
Terrence A. Duffy 25 115 Street Lemont, IL 60439
th
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
Daniel R. Glickman
Chairman of the Goverance Committee
Board of Directors
CME Group Inc.


