FILE:CME/CME-8K-20111107094926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On November 4, 2011, The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. ("McGraw-Hill"), CME Group Inc. ("CME Group") and CME Group Index Services LLC ("CGIS"), a joint venture between CME Group and Dow Jones & Company, Inc., entered into a Contribution Agreement (the "Contribution Agreement"). Pursuant to the Contribution Agreement, McGraw-Hill will contribute its S&P index business into a newly formed joint venture entity (the "Joint Venture"), and CGIS will contribute its Dow Jones index business into the Joint Venture. In addition, the Contribution Agreement provides for the purchase by McGraw-Hill from CME Group of Credit Market Analysis Ltd. and the contribution of the consideration therefor by CME Group to the Joint Venture. Following the respective contributions to the Joint Venture, McGraw-Hill will own a 73% interest in the Joint Venture and CGIS and CME Group will together own a 27% interest in the Joint Venture.
The consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Contribution Agreement is subject to certain conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals. Upon the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Contribution Agreement, the parties will enter into a limited liability company agreement for the Joint Venture (the "LLC Agreement") to provide for the management and governance of the Joint Venture. Pursuant to the LLC Agreement, the Joint Venture will be managed by a board of directors consisting of designees of McGraw-Hill and CGIS and CME Group in approximate proportion to their ownership interests. Board decisions will be made by majority vote, except that CGIS and CME Group will have customary protective minority approval rights with respect to certain matters.
The LLC Agreement will contain certain restrictions on each party's ability to transfer its Joint Venture interests. Until December 31, 2017, McGraw-Hill will not be permitted to dispose of its interests in the joint venture except pursuant to certain spin-off transactions. Thereafter, McGraw-Hill will be able to sell its interest in the Joint Venture subject to certain rights of first offer and first refusal in favor of CGIS and CME Group. In the event of any such sale, McGraw-Hill also will have drag-along rights and CGIS and CME Group will have tag-along rights.
CGIS and CME Group will have the right to put all or part of its interest in the Joint Venture to McGraw-Hill after 2017 or earlier in certain limited circumstances, based on a fair market value
appraisal. Under the LLC Agreement, McGraw-Hill will only have the right to buy out CGIS' and CME Group's Joint Venture interests in very limited circumstances.
Each of McGraw-Hill and CME Group will agree in the LLC Agreement not to compete in the index business for as long as each owns at least five percent of the Joint Venture, subject to certain exceptions, including for existing businesses of McGraw-Hill (such as Platts).
Upon consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Contribution Agreement, a new license agreement will be entered into that will replace the existing license agreement between Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and Chicago Merchant Exchange Inc. Under the new license, the Joint Venture will provide CME a license to use certain S&P stock indexes as the basis for futures, options on futures, swaps and other derivative contracts. CME Group's license for the S&P 500 Index will be exclusive for futures and options on futures until one year prior to the termination of the license and non-exclusive for the last year. The license for the other S&P stock indexes will generally be exclusive for futures and options on futures. In exchange for the license, CME Group will pay a quarterly fee based on a percentage of CME Group's overall equity index complex profits.
The term of the license will continue until the later of (i) December 31, 2017 or (ii) the date that is one year after the date that CME Group ceases to own at least five percent (accounting for dilution) of the outstanding Joint Venture interests. Upon on the occurrence of certain events, including certain terminations of the Joint Venture, the term may be extended up to an additional ten years.
The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 8.01 by reference.
The information contained in Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in filings under the Securities Act of 1933.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
McGraw-Hill (NYSE: MHP), one of the world's foremost financial information companies and owner of S&P Indices, and CME Group (NASDAQ: CME), the world's leading and most diverse derivatives marketplace and 90-percent owner of the CME Group/Dow Jones joint venture that owns Dow Jones Indexes, announced today an agreement to establish a new joint venture in the rapidly growing index business. Under the terms of the agreement, which has been approved by the Boards of both companies, McGraw-Hill will contribute its S&P Indices business and the CME Group /Dow Jones joint venture will contribute the Dow Jones Indexes business to create S&P/Dow Jones Indices, a global leader in index services with annual revenue of more than $400 million. Approximately $6 trillion in assets are benchmarked against these leading indices.
New York and Chicago, November 4, 2011
McGraw-Hill will own 73 percent of S&P/Dow Jones Indices, CME Group will own 24.4 percent through its affiliates, and Dow Jones will own 2.6 percent. S&P/Dow Jones Indices is expected to be operational in the first half of 2012, subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions. The new company will become part of the new McGraw-Hill Markets company following the separation of McGraw-Hill into two public companies, as announced on September 12, 2011.
As part of the new joint venture, S&P/Dow Jones Indices will enter into a new license agreement whereby CME Group will pay S&P Indices a share of the profits of CME Group's equity product complex, which is their trading and clearing business for futures, swaps and options on futures. In addition, the new license agreement expands the products covered under the license to include swaps and extends CME Group's existing exclusive rights (currently in place through December 31, 2017) to the E-mini and other S&P indexed futures.
Harold McGraw III, chairman, president and chief executive officer of McGraw-Hill, said, "This joint venture expands our dynamic index business and accelerates the growth of the new McGraw-Hill Markets company. By combining our unique and complementary strengths, we are creating a leading global index provider with the breadth and depth to provide both retail and institutional investors with the cutting-edge products and services they need to make sound investment decisions in today's complex markets. In addition, McGraw-Hill Markets will benefit from the new license agreement that changes S&P's Indices' relationship with CME Group from a transactional fee-per-trade model to a partnership in which S&P Indices participates in the profits of CME Group's overall equity product complex."
Terry Duffy, CME Group executive chairman, said, "This new joint venture reflects CME Group's continued commitment to creating trading opportunities for our global customer base. Through the new JV company, we look forward to developing leading risk-management solutions in equity indexes and across other asset classes, as well as diversifying our revenue streams, thereby creating value for our shareholders and customers in both institutional and retail client segments."
Craig Donohue, CME Group chief executive officer, said, "As part of our global growth strategy, CME Group has continued to expand our index services business, both through our own index futures and options products as well as through new product development at our Dow Jones Indexes subsidiary. The expanded partnership announced today not only creates a leading index services provider that will benefit our customers and shareholders, but also will deliver new opportunities for innovation, including a long-term, ownership-based exclusive global license for CME Group to use the S&P 500 for futures and options on futures products going forward."
The transaction is expected to be immediately accretive to McGraw-Hill's earnings and S&P/Dow Jones Indices is expected to drive profit growth by:
 
 
 
Alexander Matturri, executive managing director of S&P Indices, will be chief executive officer of S&P/Dow Jones Indices and Lou Eccleston, president of McGraw-Hill Financial, will chair the company's seven-member Board that will include five directors designated by McGraw-Hill and two by CME Group.
Matturri said, "Those who rely on indices worldwide  from product issuers to exchanges to investors  will benefit from a deeper lineup of indices as well as a business model focused on innovation, performance and impact. Combining S&P Indices' institutional strength with CME Group's global exchange partnerships and Dow Jones Indexes' retail focus will optimize our ability to respond to the changing global environment with increased speed and efficiency. Just as important, the structure of the joint venture is flexible enough to allow us to maintain our existing exchange relationships and work with other potential partners that could bring additional capabilities to the new company."
All current indices will retain their brand names (S&P or Dow Jones). The S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average will continue to be separately maintained and licensed as the basis for a wide variety of funds and financial instruments. This transaction does not affect existing licensing agreements with other exchanges, nor does it preclude entering into future agreements with additional providers.
Other provisions of the agreement include:
 
 
McGraw-Hill was advised by BofA Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank. Barclays Capital acted as exclusive financial advisor to CME Group.
Conference Call/Webcast Scheduled for 8:00 am Eastern Time on November 4, 2011:
Harold McGraw III, chairman, president and CEO of The McGraw-Hill Companies, and Craig Donohue, CEO of the CME Group will host a joint conference call this morning, November 4, at 8:00 AM Eastern Time. This call is open to all interested parties. Discussions may include forward-looking information. Additional information presented on the conference call may be made available on the corporations' respective Investor Relations Web sites at www.mcgraw-hill.com/investor_relations and www.cmegroup.com.
Webcast Instructions: Live and Replay
The webcast will be available live and in replay through the corporations' respective Investor Relations Web sites via the following link: http://investor.mcgraw-hill.com/phoenix.zhtml?p=irol-eventDetails&c=96562&eventID=4225043. (Please copy and paste URL into Web browser.) The archived replay will be available beginning two hours after the conclusion of the live call and will remain available for one year.
Telephone Access: Live and Replay
Telephone participants are requested to dial in by 7:50 AM. The passcode is "McGraw-Hill" and the conference leader is Harold McGraw III.
 
 
The recorded telephone replay will be available beginning two hours after the conclusion of the call and will remain available until December 5, 2011.
 
 
Presenters' Slides & Remarks
The presenters' slides will be made available for downloading at the conclusion of the conference call/webcast on the corporations' respective Investor Relations Web sites at www.mcgraw-hill.com/investor_relations and www.cmegroup.com. The final prepared remarks will be available for downloading by the end of the business day.
Forward-looking Statements
The forward-looking statements in this news release involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, including worldwide economic, financial, liquidity, political and regulatory conditions; the health of debt and equity markets, including possible future interest rate changes; the successful marketing of competitive products; the effect of competitive products and pricing; the risk that the transactions described herein are not consummated on their terms; and other matters described in McGraw-Hill's filings with the SEC.
McGraw-Hill, which announced on September 12, 2011, its intention to separate into two public companies  McGraw-Hill Markets (working name), primarily focused on global capital and commodities markets and McGraw-Hill Education focused on digital learning and education services worldwide  is a leading global financial
About The McGraw-Hill Companies:
information and education company that helps professionals and students succeed in the Knowledge Economy. Leading brands include Standard & Poor's, S&P Capital IQ, S&P Indices, Platts energy information services, J.D. Power and Associates and McGraw-Hill Education. With sales of $6.2 billion in 2010, the Corporation has approximately 21,000 employees across more than 280 offices in 40 countries. Additional information is available at .
http://www.mcgraw-hill.com/
S&P Indices, a leading brand of The McGraw-Hill Companies, maintains a wide variety of investable and benchmark indices to meet an array of investor needs. Over $1.25 trillion is directly indexed to Standard & Poor's family of indices, which includes the S&P 500, the world's most followed stock market index, the S&P/Case-Shiller Home Price Indices, the leading measure of U.S. home prices, the S&P Global BMI, an index with approximately 11,000 constituents, the S&P GSCI, the industry's most closely watched commodities index, and the S&P National AMT-Free Municipal Bond Index, the premier investable index for U.S. municipal bonds. For more information, please visit: www.standardandpoors.com/indices.
About S&P Indices:
As the world's leading and most diverse derivatives marketplace, CME Group () is where the world comes to manage risk. CME Group exchanges offer the widest range of global benchmark products across all major asset classes, including futures and options based on , , , , , , and . CME Group brings buyers and sellers together through its electronic trading platform and its trading facilities in New York and Chicago. CME Group also operates , one of the world's leading central counterparty clearing providers, which offers clearing and settlement services for exchange-traded contracts, as well as for over-the-counter derivatives transactions through . These products and services ensure that businesses everywhere can substantially mitigate counterparty credit risk in both listed and over-the-counter derivatives markets.
About CME Group:
www.cmegroup.com
interest rates
equity indexes
foreign exchange
energy
agricultural commodities
metals
weather
real estate
CME Globex
CME Clearing
CME ClearPort
is a leading full-service index provider that develops, maintains and licenses indexes for use as benchmarks and as the basis of investment products. Best-known for the Dow Jones Industrial Average, Dow Jones Indexes offers more than 130,000 equity indexes as well as fixed-income and alternative indexes, including measures of hedge funds, commodities and real estate. Dow Jones Indexes employs clear, unbiased and systematic methodologies that are fully integrated within index families. Dow Jones Indexes is part of a joint venture company owned 90 percent by and 10 percent by , a company (NASDAQ: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV).
About Dow Jones Indexes:
Dow Jones Indexes
CME Group
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
News Corporation
Investors Relations Contacts:
McGraw-Hill
Donald S. Rubin
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations
(212) 512-4321 (office)
donald_rubin@mcgraw-hill.com
CME Group
John Peschier
Managing Director, Investor Relations
(312) 930-8491
john.peschier@cmegroup.com
News Media Contacts:
McGraw-Hill
Patti Rckenwagner
Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications
(212) 512-3533
patti_rockenwagner@mcgraw-hill.com
S&P Indices
David Guarino
Director, Communications
(212) 438-1471
dave_guarino@standardandpoors.com
CME Group
Laurie Bischel
Director, Corporate Marketing & Communications
(312) 907-0003
laurie.bischel@cmegroup.com

Exhibit 99.2
The McGraw-Hill Companies
CME GROUP
Strategic Joint Venture Between McGraw-Hill and CME Group
Investor Presentation
November 4, 2011
Donald S. Rubin
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations The McGraw-Hill Companies
John Peschier
Managing Director, Investor Relations CME Group
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this presentation that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, the benefits of the transaction involving The McGraw-Hill Companies and CME Group, including future financial and operating results, the joint venture's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based on current beliefs, expectations, forecasts, and assumptions of The McGraw-Hill Companies and CME Group's management which are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from these statements. Other risks and uncertainties relating to the proposed transaction include, but are not limited to the satisfaction of conditions to closing, including receipt of antitrust, regulatory and other approvals; the proposed transaction may not be consummated on the proposed terms and schedule; uncertainty of the expected financial performance of the joint venture following completion of the proposed transaction; The McGraw-Hill Companies and CME Group may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings, synergies and other strategic benefits as a result of the proposed transaction or may take longer to achieve the cost savings, synergies and benefits than expected; general industry and market conditions; general domestic and internal economic conditions; the strength of the equity and debts markets; and governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations. The McGraw-Hill Companies and CME Group undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
For more information regarding other related risks, see Item 1A of McGraw-Hill's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and Item 1A of CME Group's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and any updates provided in their most recent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of said 10-Ks and 10-Qs are available online at http://www.sec.gov or on request from the applicable company. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this presentation. Except for any obligation to disclose material information under the Federal securities laws, The McGraw-Hill Companies and CME Group undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this presentation.
Harold McGraw III
Chairman, President and CEO The McGraw-Hill Companies
Craig Donohue
CEO CME Group
New Strategic Partnership Creates Significant Value
The McGraw-Hill Companies
S&P INDICES
CME Group
Dow Jones Indexes
A CME Group Company
DOWJONES
McGrawHill Markets* is a leading content and
CME Group is the world's leading and most diverse analytics provider to financial and commodities markets derivatives marketplace
S&P Indices is a global leader in index creation and
The marquee Dow Jones Industrial Average and other innovation calculating over 700,000 indices covering all Dow Jones Indexes brands are well known globally major markets
Strong retail recognition
Strong institutional relationships
Dow Jones Indexes (owned 90% by CME Group, 10% by
The S&P indices are among the most recognized and
Dow Jones) is a leading global provider of index heavily traded indices in the world including: the S&P products, including 130,000 indices 500, the S&P/CaseShillerr Index and the S&P GSCI
Creates Significant Value for All Stakeholders
Creates a leading index provider well-positioned to serve global institutional and retail customers
Delivers significant value to parent companies and customers
Leverages parent companies' unique and complementary strengths
Establishes an enhanced platform for growth and innovation opportunities
Presents an attractive financial profile with improved efficiency and strong free cash flow
* Working name for the McGraw-Hill Companies following the tax-free spin-off of McGraw-Hill Education 4
Key Transaction Terms
Overview and Structure
Joint Venture between McGraw-Hill, CME Group, and Dow Jones
McGraw-Hill will contribute its S&P Indices business
The CME Group / Dow Jones joint venture will contribute Dow Jones Indexes
Joint Venture transaction is tax-free
McGraw-Hill will acquire Credit Market Analysis (CMA) from CME Group
Ownership
McGraw-Hill: 73.0%
CME Group 24.4% / Dow Jones 2.6%
Commercial Terms
S&P Indices will enjoy revenue diversification stemming from a change in fee structure (from a fee per trade to a share of CME Group equity complex profits) and receive improved license terms
CME Group will have a long term, ownership-linked, exclusive license to list futures and options on futures based on S&P Indices
Governance / Organization
The JV will be consolidated into McGraw-Hill's financials
Alexander Matturri, Executive Managing Director of S&P Indices, will be named CEO
7-member board with 5 directors to be designated by McGraw-Hill, 2 by CME Group
Timing
Transaction expected to close in the first half of next year, subject to regulatory approval
Approvals
McGraw Hill and CME Group Boards of Directors have approved the transaction
No shareholder votes required
Closing contingent upon regulatory approvals 5
Delivers Significant Value to Parent Companies and Customers
Immediately accretive to McGraw-Hill post-close
Attractive Financial Break-even on an accretion/dilution basis for CME Group in 2012
Returns Positive market fundamentals and complementary strengths accelerate growth
Optimized corporate structure drives operating efficiency and margin expansion
Combines two complementary index brands into one leading global index platform
Complementary
Over five hundred ETFs with more than $380 billion in ETF AUM
Index Businesses Over $6 trillion in assets benchmarked against the S&P 500 and the DJIA
Extends CME Group access to essential S&P Indices IP and provides S&P Indices the best trading platform for monetizing its IP in equity index futures products Aligned Interests Profit sharing provides economic incentive to both partners to develop and launch successful new products
Combining CME Group's trading platform with S&P and Dow Jones' index expertise drives innovation and speeds product development Customer Insight Deep customer knowledge enhances ability to design products to meet customer functionality and liquidity needs
Already serving customers on 6 continents
Global Reach Partners' exchange relationships and the CME Globex platform provide global distribution and linkage to high growth emerging markets
Leverages Complementary Strengths
The combined capabilities of a global leader in the exchange sector and a top index provider create considerable opportunities for expansion
Further expand index product suite across commodities, fixed income, foreign
Strong exchange and credit
Presence in Under-Penetrated
Use multi-channel sales capabilities to grow assets under management tied to
Asset Classes indices and drive trading volume
Ability to offer expanded set of OTC market data offerings
Value-Added Market Data
Expansion of analytical capabilities will support both custom index business and
Business other opportunities
Cross-sell and co-brand products and expand market data services to global network of clients and exchange partners
Expansion
` Partner exchanges help to expand distribution of index offerings for trading in
Through local currencies
Partner
Exchanges ` Index creation and calculation services are attractive for partner exchanges in growing markets  further potential to gain in distribution rights for these offerings
7
Provides a Platform for Growth and Innovation
Relationships With Leading Exchanges Worldwide
Growth in Global ETF AUM
CBOE
TMX
Green X
BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES
MILA
S&P
INDICES
CME GROUP
BM&F BOVERSPA
The New Exchange
RTS Exchange
KRX KOREA EXCHANGE
DME
Dubai Mercantile Exchange
HKE
TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE
Osaka Securities Exchange
Mercad integrad
Latino American
NSE National stock Exchange of india limited
Bursa Malaysia
Singapore Exchange
ASX
Australian Securities Exchange
Assets, $bn 1,500
US Europe 1,200 Other
900 600 300
0
00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10
Global distribution channels and linkage to high 2010 Global ETF AUM: $1.3 Trillion . growth markets
Europe 20052010 2010 CAGR: 39%
Opportunity for additional non-U.S. product development, cross-border trading and new global alliances Emerging Markets 2005-2010 CAGR: 37%
Source: BlackRock ETF Landscape Industry Review, January 2011
Presents an Attractive Financial Profile
Attractive Pro Forma
(1) With Upside Potential Financials
Underlying sector has strong historical growth rates
`Global assets under management in ETFs(2): +26%
`Global exchange futures and options trading volume(3): +18%
Revenues:
Joint Venture has a robust and diversified revenue model
> $400M
AUM-based fees: Mutual funds, ETFs, structured products
Transaction-based fees: Listed and OTC derivative contracts
Profit-based fees: CME Group equity complex
Subscription-based fees: Data services and custom indices
Combination offers increased operational efficiencies
Index production platform
`Technology and administrative infrastructure Operating Margin: Data procurement and data distribution
> 50%
Joint Venture will leverage broader McGraw-Hill Markets platform and CME Group's market and customer insight
(1) LTM as of 9/30/2011
(2) BlackRock ETF Landscape Industry Review, January 2011, 2005-2010 CAGR (3) Futures Industry Association Annual Volume Survey, 2010, 2005-2010 CAGR
9
Roadmap to Completion / Next Steps
Regulatory filings will be made as soon as possible
Index businesses will operate separately until transaction closes
Relationships with other exchanges will remain in place
Transaction expected to close in the first half of next year, pending regulatory approval
10
Summary: Creates Significant Value for All Stakeholders
A leading index provider
Serving global institutional and retail customers
Unique and complementary strengths
Enhanced platform for growth and innovation
Attractive financial profile
11
The McGraw-Hill Companies
CME Group
Strategic Joint Venture Between McGraw-Hill and CME Group
Investor Presentation
November 4, 2011
The McGraw-Hill Companies
CME Group
Strategic Joint Venture Between McGraw-Hill and CME Group
Investor Presentation Replay Information
Internet replay available approximately two hours after the end of the call and will remain available for one year
- Go to: www.mcgraw-hill.com/investor_relations or www.cmegroup.com/investor-relations
Telephone replay available through December 5, 2011
- Domestic: 1-800-348-3514
- International: +1-402-220-9676 (long distance charges will apply) No password required


