FILE:CME/CME-8K-20120525125810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On May 24, 2012, CME Group Inc. (the "Company") announced that its Board of Directors declared a five-for-one stock split of the Companys Class A common stock, which will be effected through a stock dividend. The distribution date for the stock split will be July 20, 2012, for shareholders of record of the Companys Class A and Class B common stock (the "Common Stock") on July 10, 2012. Such shareholders will be issued four additional shares of Class A common stock of the Company for each share of Common Stock owned on that date.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
CME Group Press Release, dated May 24, 2012.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

news@cmegroup.com
www.cmegroup.mediaroom.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CME Group Announces Five-for-One Stock Split
CHICAGO, May 24, 2012  CME Group, the world's leading and most diverse derivatives marketplace, today declared a five-for-one split of its common stock, in the form of a 400 percent stock dividend. The dividend will be paid on July 20, 2012, to shareholders of record on July 10, 2012.
"We believe that splitting CME Group stock will appeal to a broader, more diverse mix of investor portfolios," said CME Group Executive Chairman and President Terry Duffy. "By making our shares attractive to more people, we have potential to further expand the base of ownership."
As the world's leading and most diverse derivatives marketplace, CME Group () is where the world comes to manage risk.  CME Group exchanges offer the widest range of global benchmark products across all major asset classes, including futures and options based on interest rates, equity indexes, foreign exchange, energy, agricultural commodities, metals, weather and real estate.   CME Group brings buyers and sellers together through its CME Globex electronic trading platform and its trading facilities in New York and Chicago.  CME Group also operates CME Clearing, one of the largest central counterparty clearing services in the world, which provides clearing and settlement services for exchange-traded contracts, as well as for over-the-counter derivatives transactions through CME ClearPort. These products and services ensure that businesses everywhere can substantially mitigate counterparty credit risk in both listed and over-the-counter derivatives markets.
www.cmegroup.com
The Globe logo, CME, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, CME Group, Globex, E-mini and CME ClearPort are trademarks of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc.  CBOT and Chicago Board of Trade are trademarks of the Board of Trade of the City of Chicago.  NYMEX and New York Mercantile Exchange are trademarks of New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc.  COMEX is a trademark of Commodity Exchange, Inc.  All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.  Further information about CME Group (NASDAQ: CME) and its products can be found at .
www.cmegroup.com
12-74


