ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This discussion contains forward looking statements, which involve risk and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those discussed in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K . CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND THE USE OF ESTIMATES The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We based these estimates and assumptions on historical experience, and evaluate them on an on going basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We discuss the development and selection of the critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors on a quarterly basis, and the audit committee has reviewed the Companys disclosure relating to them in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The items in our financial statements requiring significant estimates and judgments are as follows: Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the sale price is fixed or determinable, delivery has occurred or services rendered, and collectibility is reasonably assured. We changed our interpretation of "delivery" based on guidance provided in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101) effective July 1, 2000. Prior to adoption of SAB 101, we generally recognized system revenue when title transferred to the customer (mostly upon shipment). System revenue includes hardware and software that is incidental to the product. We now generally recognize system revenue upon positive affirmation by the customer that the system has been installed and is operating according to pre determined specifications. This positive affirmation is generally evidenced by an acceptance document signed by the customer. This change has the impact of prolonging the cycle time between order placement and revenue recognition. In limited cases, we allow for exceptions where we recognize system revenue upon shipment if acceptance is not required; however, these exceptions have accounted for less than 2.5% of our revenue this year. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under "Revenue Recognition" for detailed description of exceptions.) Revenue from software license fees is typically recognized upon shipment if collection of the resulting receivable is probable, the fee is fixed or determinable, and vendor specific objective evidence exists to allocate a portion of the total fee to any undelivered elements of the arrangement. Such undelivered elements in these arrangements typically consist of services and or upgrades. If vendor specific objective evidence does not exist for the undelivered elements of the arrangement, all revenue is deferred until such evidence does exist, or until all elements are delivered, whichever is earlier. In instances where an arrangement to deliver software requires significant modification or customization, license fees are recognized under the percentage of completion method of contract accounting. Allowances are established for potential product returns and credit losses. To date, revenue from license fees has been less than 10% of total revenue. Revenue from the sale of spare parts is recognized upon shipment. Service and maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract. The deferred system profit balance as of June 30, 2002 was $194 million. This amount equals the amount of deferred system revenue that was invoiced and due on shipment and deferred under SAB 101 less applicable product and warranty costs The deferred profit balance decreased from $422 million at June 30, 2001 primarily because shipments were lower than revenue recognized during fiscal 2002. We also defer the fair value of non standard warranty bundled with equipment sales as unearned revenue. Non standard warranty includes services incremental to the standard 40 hour per week coverage for twelve months. Non standard warranty is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. The unearned revenue balance decreased from $71 million at June 30, 2001 to $55 million at June 30, 2002 primarily due to the reduction of system revenue from fiscal 2001 to fiscal 2002. Inventory Reserves We review the adequacy of our inventory reserves on a quarterly basis. For production inventory, our methodology involves matching our on hand and on order inventory with our build forecast over the next twelve months. The matching is done on a part by part basis. We then evaluate the parts found to be in excess of the twelve month demand and take appropriate reserves to reflect the risk of obsolescence. For spare parts inventory, we match our on hand inventory against twenty four months of usage. We then evaluate the parts in excess of the twenty four month usage and take appropriate reserves to reflect risk of obsolescence. Both methodologies are significantly affected by the usage assumption. The longer the time period of estimated usage the less reserves are required. Based on our past experience, we believe the twelve month/twenty four month time periods best reflect the average obsolescence risks. Given the highly cyclical nature and volatility in our product demand and spare parts usage, we occasionally have to adjust our reserves as actual system demand/spare parts usage varies. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts A majority of our trade receivables are derived from sales to large multinational semiconductor manufacturers throughout the world. In order to monitor potential credit losses, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained for potential credit losses based upon our assessment of the expected collectibility of all accounts receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed periodically to assess the adequacy of the allowance. We take into consideration (1) any circumstances of which we are aware of a customers inability to meet its financial obligations; and (2) a certain percentage of the accounts receivable balance which is based on the age of the receivables and our historical experience. If circumstances change, and the financial condition of our customers were adversely affected resulting in their inability to meet their financial obligations to us, we may need to take additional allowances. Warranty We provide standard warranty coverage on our systems for twelve months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair the systems during the warranty period. We account for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to cost of sales when revenue is recognized. The estimated warranty cost is based on historical product performance and field expenses. Utilizing actual service records, we calculate the average service hours and parts expense per system and apply the actual labor and overhead rates to determine the estimated warranty charge. We update these estimated charges every six months. The actual product performance and or field expense profiles may differ, and in those cases we adjust our warranty reserves accordingly. The difference between the estimated and actual warranty costs tends to be larger for new product introductions for which there is limited or no historical product performance on which to base the estimated warranty expense; more mature products with longer product performance histories tend to be more stable in our warranty charge estimates. Non standard warranty includes services incremental to the standard 40 hour per week coverage for twelve months. Non standard warranty is deferred as unearned revenue and is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. Contingencies and Litigation We are currently named as a party to various legal proceedings, including those outlined in Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. While we currently believe the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, both individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or operating results, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. We would accrue the cost of an adverse judgment if, in our estimation, the adverse settlement is probable and we can reasonably estimate the ultimate cost to us. We have made no such accruals as of June 30, 2002. Results of Operations During fiscal 2002, we continued to face a significant downturn in the semiconductor industry which started early in calendar year 2001. For several quarters, there has been a worldwide softening in demand for semiconductors resulting in excess capacity and reduced demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment. Revenues and Gross Margin Product revenue decreased $479 million, or 25%, to $1.43 billion in fiscal 2002 from $1.91 billion in fiscal 2001. Product revenue declines were mostly the result of reduced capital spending as a result of a semiconductor industry downturn. Product revenue in fiscal 2001 increased $568 million, or 42% to $1.91 billion, from $1.34 billion in fiscal 2000, as a result of the continued recovery of new order and net sales over the previous year as major semiconductor manufacturers expanded facilities for additional capacity and new technology. In fiscal 2002, international revenue slightly increased to 69% of revenue, from 67% in the prior year, due to higher demand in Japan and Western Europe, partially offset by lower demand in Taiwan. In fiscal 2001, international revenue decreased to 67% of revenue, from 72% in fiscal 2000, due to lower demand in Western Europe, Taiwan and Japan. Service revenue is generated from maintenance service contracts, as well as time and material billable service calls made to our customers after the expiration of the warranty period. Service revenues were $209 million, $196 million, and $159 million in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000 respectively. Service revenue continued to increase throughout the 3 year period as our installed base of equipment at our customers sites continued to grow. The amount of service revenue generated is generally proportional to the number of post warranty systems installed at our customers sites and the degree of utilization of those systems. Gross margins as a percentage of revenues were 50%, 55% and 55% in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The decrease in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 was primarily due to reduced capacity utilization, resulting from lower business volume and an increased percentage of revenue in the lower margin service business, as well as factory under absorption and higher excess inventory write offs due to lower business levels. The gross margin ratio in fiscal 2001 remained flat compared to fiscal 2000. Engineering, Research and Development Net engineering, research and development expenses were $287 million, $356 million, and $246 million, or 18%, 17% and 16% of revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The dollars decreased in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to temporary shutdowns, management pay cuts, reductions in temporary labor and discretionary spending as well as other cost saving measures implemented over the last year. The dollar increase in fiscal 2001, compared to fiscal 2000, was primarily attributable to increased investment in new technologies associated with our ongoing efforts to develop products which address new market segments, enhancements to existing products including next generation 300mm products, and inspection enhancements for sub quarter micron technology. Net engineering, research and development expenses were partially offset by $14 million, $8 million and $16 million in external funding received under certain strategic development programs conducted with several of our customers and government grants in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Our future operating results will depend significantly on our ability to produce products and provide services that have a competitive advantage in our marketplace. To do this, we believe that we must continue to make substantial investments in our research and development efforts. We remain committed to product development in new and emerging technologies as we address the requirements of 0.18 micron and 0.13 micron feature sizes, real time review, and the transition to copper technology. Our investments in new technology and existing product enhancements are intended to enable our customers to achieve a higher return on their capital investments and higher productivity through cost effective, leading edge technology solutions. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses were $291 million, $354 million and $268 million, or 18%, 17% and 18% of revenues, in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The decrease in dollars in fiscal 2002, as compared to fiscal 2001, was primarily due to temporary shutdowns, management pay cuts, reductions in temporary labor and discretionary spending, as well as other cost saving measures implemented over the last year. The increase in dollars in fiscal 2001, as compared to fiscal 2000, was primarily due to increased costs associated with the growth in revenues. Non Recurring Acquisition, Restructuring and Other Charges The following is summary of non recurring acquisition, restructuring and other charges: (in thousands) 2002 2001 2000 Acquired in process research and development expense $ $ 700 $ 3,200 Facilities 4,713 Severance 1,595 Non recurring income from iSupport sale (10,029) Reserve reversal (7,838) Others 1,018 $ $ (2,003) $ (4,638) Acquisitions During the three years ended June 30, 2002, we completed a number of purchase acquisitions. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each business from the date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions were not material on either an individual or aggregate basis. For a period of up to twelve months from the acquisition date, we may change our original purchase price allocation for pre acquisition uncertainties. After twelve months, we record the fair value of such reasonably estimable contingencies. The amounts allocated to in process research and development ("in process R&D") were determined through established valuation techniques in the high technology equipment industry and were expensed upon acquisition because technology feasibility had not been established and no future alternative uses existed. Amounts allocated to goodwill and purchased intangible assets are amortized on a straight line basis over periods not exceeding five years. A summary of purchase transactions is outlined as follows (in thousands): Goodwill and Consideration Purchased Acquisition Acquired Including Assumed Intangible In Process year Company/Assets Liabilities Acquisition Cost Assets R&D Expenses Fiscal 2002 QC Optics(1) $4,000 $ $4,000 $ Fiscal 2001 Phase Metrics(2) $18,000 $1,300 $5,400 $700 Fiscal 2000 Fab Solutions(3) $8,000 $ $7,700 $800 Fiscal 2000 FINLE Technologies(4) $5,000 $ $3,300 $500 Fiscal 2000 ACME Systems(5) $6,900 $ $4,500 $1,900 (1) With the acquisition of QC Optics, we received certain intellectual property in laser based inspection systems for the semiconductor, flat panel and computer hard disk manufacturing industries. (2) We acquired certain assets and technology of Phase Metrics, the leading supplier of inspection/certification products in the data storage industry. (3) Fab solutions provided us with APC software, allowing our customers to automatically compensate for variances in the IC manufacturing process. (4) With the Finle acquisition, we developed our Klarity ProDATA lithography data analysis software, which combined with the PROLITH lithography data analysis software, helps our customers reduce their advanced lithography development time and cost. (5) ACMEs technology enabled us to develop the Klarity ACE product which helps our customers quickly identify the source of defects and process problems fab wide. The difference between the purchase price and the goodwill, intangibles and in process R&D represents amount allocated to the net tangible assets acquired. No deferred stock based compensation has been recorded for any of the acquisitions. Restructuring and Other Charges In fiscal 2002, there were no restructuring charges. In fiscal 2001, in response to the downturn in the semiconductor industry, we implemented a restructuring plan to reduce spending. Charges related to our restructuring plan included: facilities of $4.7 million, severance and benefits of $1.6 million, and other costs of $1.0 million. Due to our downsizing and consolidation of certain of our operations, we vacated two of our leased office buildings and included the remaining net book value of the related leasehold improvements as well as the future lease payments, net of anticipated sublease revenue in the charge. We reduced our workforce by approximately 5%, primarily in the manufacturing areas, and recorded severance charges related to these terminations. In addition, during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001, we sold software and intellectual property associated with our iSupport(TM) on line customer support technology and recorded $10.0 million pretax, non recurring income, which was netted with the other non recurring charges. As part of the iSupport(TM) transaction, we will record a non recurring gain of approximately $15 million in the quarter ending September 30, 2002. During fiscal 2000, we reversed $8 million of restructuring reserve that would not be utilized because of a change in managements plans for utilization of certain facilities resulting from an increase in demand for our products. As of June 30, 2002, the remaining balance of the restructuring reserve was $0.4 million. Restructuring activity for fiscal 2002 was as follows: (in thousands) Facilities Other Total Balance at June 30, 2001 $2,035 $200 $2,235 Cash Paid (1,630) (200) (1,830) Balance at June 30, 2002 $405 $ $405 The semiconductor equipment industry that we operate in is a highly cyclical industry. This cyclical nature affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, thus, future expense levels. We are currently in a down cycle, and if this current down cycle continues to linger, we may need to take appropriate actions to scale operating expenses to our business levels. Interest Income and Other, Net Interest income and other, net was $43 million, $54 million and $42 million in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. Interest income and other, net is comprised primarily of gains realized on sales of marketable securities, interest income earned on the investment and cash portfolio and income recognized upon settlement of certain foreign currency contracts. The decrease in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 was primarily due to decreased interest income resulting from declining interest rates. The increase in fiscal 2001 as compared to fiscal 2000 was primarily due to increased interest income resulting from higher interest rate and higher average investment balances. Provision for Income Taxes KLA Tencors effective income tax rate was 25%, 27% and 28% in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In general, our effective income tax rate differs from the statutory rate of 35% largely as a function of benefits realized from our Extraterritorial Income (`ETI") exclusion, research and development tax credits and income derived from tax exempt interest. The overall reduction in our effective income tax rate from fiscal 2001 to fiscal 2002 of 2%, was the result of a combination of factors. Most importantly, more export sales benefits, more tax exempt interest income and less state tax expense compared relatively to these same items as a percentage of fiscal 2001 pre tax income, reduced the rate. These reductions were partially offset by more relative foreign tax expense. The overall reduction in our effective income tax rate from fiscal 2000 to fiscal 2001 was primarily due to a shift in the geographic composition of our pre tax income. Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of our pre tax income, non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions, amounts of tax exempt interest income and research and development credits as a percentage of aggregate pre tax income, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. Liquidity and Capital Resources Working capital was $932 million as of June 30, 2002, compared to $913 million as of June 30, 2001. Cash, cash equivalents and short term marketable securities at June 30, 2002 decreased to $673 million from $697 million at June 30, 2001. In addition, we maintained $660 million and $447 million in marketable securities classified as long term as of June 30, 2002 and 2001, respectively. KLA Tencor has historically financed its operations through cash generated from operations. Cash provided by operating activities was $284 million, $408 million, and $253 million in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 was primarily due to decreased income before the cumulative effect of accounting change and lower accounts payable, partially offset by lower accounts receivable and inventory balances. Income before cumulative effect of accounting change decreased in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to declining revenues and gross margins partially offset by decreased engineering, selling, general and administrative expenses associated with cost saving measures in response to the industry slowdown. Accounts payable shrank due to decreased expenditures and lower incoming invoices. Accounts receivable declined primarily due to strong collection efforts, as well as lower shipments. The reduction in inventory was driven primarily in production inventory, where stringent processes have been put in place for managing material procurement. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 was primarily due to revenue growth and strong collection in accounts receivable, partially offset by increased inventory expenditure and other purchases. During fiscal 2002 and 2001, we sold trade notes and accounts receivable from Japanese customers. At June 30, 2002 and 2001, $48 million and $52 million, respectively, of these receivables and notes were outstanding, which have not been included in our consolidated balance sheet as the criteria for sale treatment established by SFAS 140 have been met. Under SFAS 140, after a transfer of financial assets, an entity derecognizes financial assets when control has been surrendered, and derecognizes liabilities when extinguished. Cash used in investing activities was $376 million, $295 million and $96 million in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Investing activities typically consist of purchases and sales or maturities of marketable securities, purchases of capital assets to support long term growth and acquisitions of technology or other companies to allow access to new market segments or emerging technologies. Additions of capital assets consist mainly of the planned completion of our Livermore facilities. We anticipate capital expenditures in fiscal 2003 to be significantly lower compared to fiscal 2002 due to the completion of the Livermore facilities in fiscal 2002. We used $9 million and $58 million of cash in financing activities in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, respectively, and generated $61 million in fiscal 2000. Financing activities typically include sales and repurchases of our common stock, as well as borrowings and repayments of debt. Repurchases of common stock, net of issuance, used $8 million and $60 million in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, respectively. Issuance of common stock, net of repurchases, provided $79 million in fiscal 2000. We have adopted a plan for the systematic repurchase of shares of our common stock in the open market to reduce the dilution created by our stock based employee benefit and incentive plans. In fiscal 2002, we repurchased 3,341,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $36.89 per share, for a total of $123 million. In fiscal 2001, we repurchased 4,580,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $33.54 per share, for a total of $154 million. In fiscal 2000, we repurchased 520,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $53.80 per share, for a total of $28 million. Since the inception of the repurchase program in 1997 through June 30, 2002, we have repurchased a total of 11,349,000 shares at an average price of $32.57 per share. All such shares remain as treasury shares. Certain of our leased facilities qualify for operating lease accounting treatment under SFAS 13, "Accounting for Leases," and, as such, the facilities are not included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The lease agreement for certain Milpitas and San Jose, California facilities has a term of five years ending in November 2002, with an option to extend up to two more years. Monthly payments under this lease vary based upon the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) plus 0.42%. Under the terms of the lease, we, at our option, can acquire the properties at their original cost or arrange for the properties to be acquired. Under the terms of the lease, we must maintain compliance with certain financial covenants. As of the date of filing of this 10 K, we were in compliance with all of tour bank covenants, including the financial covenants. If we purchase these Milpitas and San Jose, California facilities at the end of the lease term, the purchase transactions would increase land and property value by approximately $119.3 million and decrease cash by approximately the same amount. Consequently, depreciation expense would increase by approximately $4.3 million per year, rent expense would decrease by approximately $2.9 million per year, and interest income would decrease by approximately $3.6 million per year, based on current interest rates. If we choose not to purchase the facilities, we will be liable to the lessor for residual value guarantees of an aggregate of up to approximately $100.2 million. Based on current market conditions, we do not believe that we will have to make any significant payments associated with the residual value guarantees. At June 30, 2002, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $1.33 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and investments. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of the business, and others of which relate to the uncertainties of global economies and the semiconductor and the semiconductor equipment industries. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, our management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements for the next twelve months. The following is a schedule summarizing KLA Tencor significant commitments as of June 30, 2002 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Total 1 year 2 3 years 3 4 years Over 5 years Operating leases $ 20.0 $ 9.4 $ 8.2 $ 1.4 $ 1.0 Lease at maturity 100.2 100.2 $ 120.2 $ 109.6 $ 8.2 $ 1.4 $ 1.0 Additionally, we maintain certain open inventory purchase commitments with our suppliers to ensure a smooth and continuous supply chain for key components. Our liability in these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecast time horizon can vary amongst different suppliers. As such, it is difficult to accurately report our true open commitments at any particular point in time. However, we estimate our open inventory purchase commitment as of June 30, 2002 to be no more than $60 million. FACTORS AFFECTING RESULTS, INCLUDING RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Fluctuations in Operating Results and Stock Price Our operating results have varied widely in the past, and our future operating results will continue to be subject to quarterly variations based upon a wide variety of factors, including those listed in this section and throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, future operating results may not follow any past trends. We believe the factors that could make our results fluctuate and difficult to predict include: o the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; o changing global economic conditions; o competitive pressure; o our ability to develop and implement new technologies and introduction of new products; o our ability to manage our manufacturing requirements; o intellectual property protection; o the shortage of qualified workers in the areas in which we operate; and o worldwide political instability. Operating results also could be affected by sudden changes in customer requirements, currency exchange rate fluctuations and other economic conditions affecting customer demand and the cost of operations in one or more of the global markets in which we do business. As a result of these or other factors, we could fail to achieve our expectations as to future revenues, gross profit and income from operations. Our failure to meet the performance expectations set and published by external sources could result in a sudden and significant drop in the price of our stock, particularly on a short term basis, and could negatively affect the value of any investment in our stock. Semiconductor Equipment Industry Volatility The semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical. The purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and the semiconductor industry worldwide. The timing, length and severity of the up and down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. This cyclical nature of the industry in which we operate affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, thus, future expense levels. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During a down cycle, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. If we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed. Currently, we are in an industry down cycle. We are not able to predict when the semiconductor industry will recover. During a down cycle, the semiconductor industry typically experiences excess production capacity that causes semiconductor manufacturers to decrease capital spending. We generally do not have long term volume production contracts with our customers, and we do not control the timing or volume of orders placed by our customers. Whether and to what extent our customers place orders for any specific products, as well as the mix and quantities of products included in those orders, are factors beyond our control. Insufficient orders, especially in our down cycles, will result in under utilization of our manufacturing facilities and infrastructure and will negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. International Trade and Economic Conditions We serve an increasingly global market. A majority of our annual revenues are derived from outside the United States, and we expect that international revenues will continue to represent a substantial percentage of our revenues. Our international revenues and operations are affected by economic conditions specific to each country and region. Because of our significant dependence on international revenues, a decline in the economies of any of the countries or regions in which we do business could negatively affect our operating results. Managing global operations and sites located throughout the world presents challenges associated with, among other things, cultural diversity and organizational alignment. Moreover, each region in the global semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. Periodic local or international economic downturns, trade balance issues, political instability in regions where we have operations, such as Israel, and fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Although we attempt to manage near term currency risks through the use of hedging instruments, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. Competition Our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. Our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. Some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support capabilities than we can provide. We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. These competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services which we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. Loss of competitive position could negatively impact our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins, and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. Our failure to compete successfully with these other companies would seriously harm our business. Technological Change and Customer Requirements Success in the semiconductor equipment industry depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. For example, the semiconductor industry continues to shrink the size of semiconductor devices which increasing wafer size and has begun to commercialize the process of copper based interconnects. These and other evolving customer needs require us to respond with continued development programs and to cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry wide support. Technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate professional staffing. Our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, to develop and introduce new products which successfully address changing customer needs, to win market acceptance of these new products and to manufacture these new products in a timely and cost effective manner. If we do not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed. In this environment, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands for improved performance, features and functionality. There can be no assurance that revenues from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements or that we will be able to secure the financial resources necessary to fund future development. Substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. In addition, we cannot ensure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. Our business will be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices or if our products are not accepted by the market in which we operate. Key Suppliers We use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply materials. We generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. Because of the variability and uniqueness of customers orders, we do not maintain an extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing. We seek to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and or shortages of key parts by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers.Our business would be harmed if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our production requirements in a timely and cost effective manner. Manufacturing Disruption Operations at our primary manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. In addition, last year California suffered from a severe energy shortage, causing rolling blackouts throughout the state. In recent months there has also been a marked increase in hostility in the Middle East. Such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers. We cannot ensure that alternate production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. Such a disruption could result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business. Intellectual Property Obsolescence and Infringement Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. We own various United States and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. The process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. Other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or may design around the patents we own. We also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. However, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or successfully deter infringement by third parties. While patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. We also maintain exclusive and non exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. However, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the United States. As is typical in the semiconductor equipment industry, from time to time we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights which they believe cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information. Our customary practice is to evaluate such assertions and to consider whether to seek licenses where appropriate. However, we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms or that costly litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. The inability to obtain necessary licenses or other rights on reasonable terms could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Key Employees Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. We generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. If we are unable to retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate or retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our needs in the future, our business and operations could be harmed. These factors could seriously harm our business. Acquisitions In addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, we also seek to acquire new technologies from external sources. As part of this effort, we may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including management issues and costs in connection with the integration of the operations and personnel, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the possible write downs of impaired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. The inability to manage these risks effectively could seriously harm our business. Litigation From time to time we are involved in litigation of various types, including litigation that alleges infringement of intellectual property rights and other claims. Litigation tends to be expensive and requires significant management time and attention and could have a negative effect on our results of operations or business if we lose or have to settle a case on significantly adverse terms. If we lose in a dispute concerning intellectual property, a court could require us to pay substantial damages and or royalties or could issue an injunction prohibiting us from using essential technologies. For these and other reasons, this type of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, although we may seek to obtain a license under a third partys intellectual property rights in order to bring an end to certain claims or actions asserted against us, we may not be able to obtain such a license on reasonable terms or at all. Terrorism and Political Instability The threat of terrorism targeted at the regions of the world in which we do business, including the United States, increases the uncertainty in our markets and may delay any recovery in the general economy. Any delay in the recovery of the economy and the semiconductor industry could seriously impact our business. Increased international political instability, as demonstrated by the September 2001 terrorist attacks, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of the September 2001 terrorist attacks, the conflict in Afghanistan and the increasing tension in the Middle East, may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. To the extent this instability continues or otherwise increases, we could incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. This same instability could have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. If this international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Effects of Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 143 ("SFAS 143"), "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," which is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. SFAS 143 applies to all entities and addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. It applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development, and or the normal operation of a long lived asset, except for certain obligations of lessees. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 143 will have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations. In October 2001, the FASB issued Statement No. 144 ("SFAS 144"), "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." SFAS 144 addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment of long lived assets and for long lived assets to be disposed. SFAS 144 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We are currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 144, but do not expect that our adoption on July 1, 2002 will have a material effect on our financial statements. In June 2002, the FASB issued Statement No. 146 ("SFAS 146"), "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities." SFAS 146 addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities, and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 94 3, Liabilities Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). This Statement requires that a liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized and measured initially at fair value only when the liability is incurred. SFAS 146 will be effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. The standard will in certain circumstances change the timing of recognition of restructuring costs. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. To mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position at June 30, 2002. Actual results may differ materially. At the end of fiscal 2002, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $883 million, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents (detail of these securities is included in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements found under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). These securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. If market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of June 30, 2002, the fair value of the portfolio would have declined by $6 million. As of June 30, 2002, we had net forward contracts to sell $115 million in foreign currency in order to hedge currency exposures (detail of these contracts is incorporated by reference from Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under "Derivative Instruments". If we had entered into these contracts on June 30, 2002, the U.S. dollar equivalent would be $124 million. A 10% adverse move in currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $15 million. However, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. Accordingly, we believe that the hedging of our foreign currency exposure should have no material impact on income or cash flows. 
 
