ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This discussion contains forward looking statements, which involve risk and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those discussed in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. (See Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements.) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND THE USE OF ESTIMATES The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We based these estimates and assumptions on historical experience, and evaluate them on an on going basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We discuss the development and selection of the critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors on a quarterly basis, and the audit committee has reviewed the Companys disclosure relating to them in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The items in our financial statements requiring significant estimates and judgments are as follows: Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the sale price is fixed or determinable, delivery has occurred or services rendered, and collectibility is reasonably assured. We changed our interpretation of delivery based on guidance provided in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101) effective July 1, 2000. Prior to adoption of SAB 101, we generally recognized system revenue when title transferred to the customer (mostly upon shipment). System revenue includes hardware and software that is incidental to the product. We now generally recognize system revenue upon positive affirmation by the customer that the system has been installed and is operating according to pre determined specifications. This positive affirmation is generally evidenced by an acceptance document signed by the customer. This change has the impact of prolonging the cycle time between order placement and revenue recognition. In limited cases, we allow for exceptions where we recognize system revenue upon shipment if acceptance is not required; however, these exceptions have accounted for approximately 3.1% and 2.5% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended 2003 and 2002. Shipping charges billed to customers are included in system revenue and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Revenue Recognition for detailed description of exceptions.) Page 28 Revenue from software license fees is typically recognized upon shipment if collection of the resulting receivable is probable, the fee is fixed or determinable, and vendor specific objective evidence exists to allocate a portion of the total fee to any undelivered elements of the arrangement. Such undelivered elements in these arrangements typically consist of services and or upgrades. If vendor specific objective evidence does not exist for the undelivered elements of the arrangement, all revenue is deferred until such evidence does exist, or until all elements are delivered, whichever is earlier. In instances where an arrangement to deliver software requires significant modification or customization, license fees are recognized under the percentage of completion method of contract accounting. Allowances are established for potential product returns and credit losses. To date, revenue from license fees have been less than 10% of total revenue. Spare parts revenue is recognized when the product has been shipped, risk of loss has passed to the customer and collection of the resulting receivable is probable. Service and maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract. If maintenance is included in an arrangement, which includes a software license agreement, amounts related to maintenance are allocated based on vendor specific objective evidence. Consulting and training revenue is recognized when the related services are performed. The deferred system profit balance as of June 30, 2003 was $177 million. This amount equals the amount of deferred system revenue that was invoiced and due on shipment and deferred under SAB 101 less applicable product and warranty costs. The deferred profit balance decreased from $194 million at June 30, 2002 primarily because shipments were lower than customer acceptance for which revenue was recognized during fiscal 2003. We also defer the fair value of non standard warranty bundled with equipment sales as unearned revenue. Non standard warranty includes services incremental to the standard 40 hour per week coverage for twelve months. Non standard warranty is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. The unearned revenue balance decreased to $48 million at June 30, 2003 from $55 million at June 30, 2002 primarily due to the increase in service revenue recognized from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003. Inventory Reserves We review the adequacy of our inventory reserves on a quarterly basis. For production inventory, our methodology involves matching our on hand and on order inventory with our build forecast over the next twelve months. We then evaluate the parts found to be in excess of the twelve month demand and take appropriate reserves to reflect the risk of obsolescence. For spare parts inventory, we match our on hand inventory against twenty four months of usage. We then evaluate the parts in excess of the twenty four month usage and take appropriate reserves to reflect risk of obsolescence. Both methodologies are significantly affected by the usage assumption. The longer the time period of estimated usage, the lower the reserves are required. Based on our past experience, we believe the twelve month/twenty four month time periods best reflect the reasonable and relative obsolescence risks. If actual demand or usage were to be substantially lower than estimated, additional inventory adjustments for excess or obsolete inventory may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Inventory reserves, once established, are not reversed until the related inventory has been sold. Page 29 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts A majority of our trade receivables are derived from sales to large multinational semiconductor manufacturers throughout the world. In order to monitor potential credit losses, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained for potential credit losses based upon our assessment of the expected collectibility of all accounts receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed periodically to assess the adequacy of the allowance. We take into consideration (1) any circumstances of which we are aware of a customers inability to meet its financial obligations; and (2) our judgments as to prevailing economic conditions in the industry and their impact on our customers. If circumstances change, and the financial condition of our customers were adversely affected resulting in their inability to meet their financial obligations to us, we may need to take additional allowances, which would result in a reduction of our net income. Warranty We provide standard warranty coverage on our systems for twelve months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair the systems during the warranty period. We account for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to cost of sales when revenue is recognized. The estimated warranty cost is based on historical product performance and field expenses. Utilizing actual service records, we calculate the average service hours and parts expense per system and apply the labor and overhead rates to determine the estimated warranty charge. We update these estimated charges every quarter. The actual product performance and or field expense profiles may differ, and in those cases we adjust our warranty reserves accordingly. The difference between the estimated and actual warranty costs tends to be larger for new product introductions for which there is limited or no historical product performance on which to base the estimated warranty expense; more mature products with longer product performance histories tend to be more stable in our warranty charge estimates. Non standard warranty generally includes services incremental to the standard 40 hour per week coverage for twelve months. Non standard warranty is deferred as unearned revenue and is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. Contingencies and Litigation We are currently named as a party to various legal proceedings, including those outlined in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. While we currently believe the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, both individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position but may adversely affect our quarterly operating results, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. We would accrue the cost of an adverse judgment if, in our estimation, the adverse settlement is probable and we can reasonably estimate the ultimate cost to us. We have made no such accruals as of June 30, 2003. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 109 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. We have determined that our future taxable income will be sufficient to recover all of our deferred tax assets. However, should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we could be required to record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. This would result in an increase to our tax provision in the period in which we determined that the recovery was not probable. Page 30 On a quarterly basis, we provide for income taxes based upon an annual effective income tax rate. The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. We carefully monitor the changes in many factors and adjust our effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, this could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Results of Operations During fiscal 2003 we continued to face a significant downturn in the semiconductor industry, which started in early calendar year 2001. In calendar year 2001, the demand for semiconductors dropped by approximately 32% and remained flat to slightly higher in calendar year 2002. Although new orders grew, quarter on quarter by approximately $21 million in the three months ended June 30, 2003, we are still cautious about the timing of a broad based turnaround in the growth of demand for semiconductors looking forward. Electronics industry analysts forecast semiconductor shipments for calendar year 2003 to grow over calendar year 2002. Over the longer term, we expect process control to continue to represent a higher percentage of our customers capital spending. We believe this increase in process control spending will be driven by the demand for more precise diagnostics capabilities to address multiple new defects as a result of further shrinking of device feature sizes, the transition to copper and other new materials, and the transition to new 300 millimeter fabs. We anticipate these factors will drive increased demand for our products and services when the semiconductor industry recovers. New system and service orders by region were as follows (in millions): Fiscal Year Fiscal Quarter 2003 2003 Fourth Third Second First United States $ 374 $ 104 $ 98 $ 92 $ 80 Europe 167 39 40 58 30 Japan 289 101 64 67 57 Taiwan 135 28 44 17 46 Asia Pacific 216 65 70 52 29 Total orders $ 1,181 $ 337 $ 316 $ 286 $ 242 Page 31 KLA Tencors backlog for unshipped system orders as of June 30, 2003 was approximately $509 million, a majority of which we expect to ship over the next six to nine months. In addition, we have $351 million of SAB 101 deferred revenue that is related to products that have been delivered but are awaiting written acceptance from the customer. Revenues and Gross Margin Product revenue in fiscal 2003 decreased $368 million, or 26% to $1.06 billion, from $1.43 billion in fiscal 2002. Product revenue decreased $479 million, or 25%, to $1.43 billion in fiscal 2002 from $1.91 billion in fiscal 2001. Product revenue declines were primarily from reduced capital spending by our customers as a result of a significant reduction in the demand for semiconductors over the last two years. In fiscal 2003, international product revenue increased slightly to 71% of revenue, from 69% in fiscal 2002, due to higher demand in Taiwan. In fiscal 2002, international product revenue increased slightly to 69% of revenue, from 67% in the prior year, due to higher demand in Japan and Western Europe, partially offset by lower demand in Taiwan. Service revenue is generated from maintenance service contracts, as well as time and material billable service calls made to our customers after the expiration of the warranty period. Service revenues were $263 million, $209 million, and $196 million in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001 respectively. Service revenue continued to increase throughout the 3 year period as our installed base of equipment at our customers sites continued to grow. The amount of service revenue generated is generally a function of the number of post warranty systems installed at our customers sites and the degree of utilization of those systems. Gross margins as a percentage of revenues were 49%, 50% and 55% in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decrease in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 were primarily due to reduced capacity utilization, resulting from lower business volume and an increased percentage of revenue in the lower margin service business. Although gross margins fell below the 50% level in fiscal 2003, we have implemented plans for continued expense reductions aimed at bringing margins back above the 50% range even if industry conditions remain weak. Our plans for expense reduction include streamlining manufacturing costs through the use of common platforms, leveraging manufacturing procurement through consolidation of vendors and further expanding on outsourcing initiatives. Engineering, Research and Development Net engineering, research and development expenses were $268 million, $287 million, and $356 million, or 20%, 18% and 17% of revenues in fiscal 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. The absolute dollars decreased in fiscal 2003, compared to fiscal 2002, due to engineering programs reaching certain milestones that resulted in reductions in labor and material expense, additional external funding and cost saving measures such as company mandated time off and reduction in discretionary spending implemented over the last several quarters in response to the industry slow down. The dollars decreased in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to temporary shutdowns, management pay cuts, reductions in temporary labor and discretionary spending as well as other cost saving measures implemented over the last year. We expect our net engineering, research and development expenses to be flat to slightly up in absolute dollars as we make investments in critical programs focusing on new technologies and existing product enhancements. Page 32 Net engineering, research and development expenses were partially offset by $18 million, $14 million and $8 million in external funding received under certain strategic development programs conducted with several of our customers and government grants in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Our future operating results will depend significantly on our ability to produce products and provide services that have a competitive advantage in our marketplace. To do this, we believe that we must continue to make substantial investments in our research and development efforts. We remain committed to product development in new and emerging technologies as we address the further shrinking of device feature sizes, the transition to copper and other new materials, and the transition to new 300 millimeter fabs. Our investments in new technology and existing product enhancements are intended to enable our customers to achieve a higher return on their capital investments and higher productivity through cost effective, leading edge technology solutions. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses were $254 million, $291 million and $354 million, or 19%, 18% and 17% of revenues, in fiscal 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. The absolute dollars for selling, general and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to company mandated time off, reductions in labor and discretionary spending as well as other cost saving measures implemented over the last several quarters in response to the industry slowdown and the ongoing global economic weakness. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to be flat to slightly down in absolute dollars as we continue to realize the benefits from these cost saving measures. Non Recurring Acquisition, Restructuring and Other Charges The following is a summary of non recurring acquisition, restructuring and other charges for the three fiscal years ending June 30: (in thousands) 2003 2002 2001 Acquired in process research and development expense $ $ $ 700 Facilities 4,623 4,713 Severance 1,127 1,595 Non recurring income from iSupport sale (15,152) (10,029) Others 1,018 $ (9,402) $ $ (2,003) Page 33 Restructuring and Other Charges In fiscal 2003, we structured certain of our operations to realign costs with planned business levels in light of the industry downturn. We classified restructuring costs into two main categories: facilities and other charges of $4.6 million and severance and benefits of $1.1 million. As part of the facilities consolidation, we exited several of our leased buildings and have included the remaining net book value of the related leasehold improvements as well as the future lease payments, net of anticipated sublease revenue, in the charge. Severance and benefit charges were related to the involuntary termination of approximately 70 personnel from manufacturing, engineering, sales, marketing, and administration in the United States, Japan and Europe. The restructuring actions taken in fiscal 2003 are proceeding as planned, with the termination of employees having been completed and the facilities related lease payments scheduled to be completed by the end of fiscal 2004. In addition, during the first fiscal quarter of 2003, we received $15.2 million as a second and final installment on the sale of software and intellectual property associated with our iSupport on line customer support technology, which was netted against the above non recurring charges, resulting in a reported net gain of $9.4 million In addition to the restructuring action, we also recorded severance charges totaling $10.9 million in operating expenses, throughout fiscal 2003, relating to a series of employee involuntary terminations. We believe that both these actions will result in annual reductions in costs of goods sold and operating expenses of approximately $60 million. In fiscal 2002, there were no restructuring charges. We recorded severance charges of $8.5 million in operating expenses relating to a series of employee involuntary terminations throughout fiscal 2002. This resulted in annual cost reductions in costs of goods sold and operating expenses of approximately $44 million. In fiscal 2001, in response to the downturn in the semiconductor industry, we implemented a restructuring plan to reduce spending. Charges related to the restructuring plan included: facilities of $4.7 million, severance and benefits of $1.6 million, and other costs of $1.0 million. Facilities related charges were associated with two of our leased office buildings that were vacated and included the remaining net book value of the related leasehold improvements as well as the future lease payments, net of anticipated sublease revenue in the charge. During fiscal 2001, we reduced our workforce by approximately 5%, primarily in the manufacturing areas and recorded severance charges related to these terminations. The restructuring actions taken in fiscal 2001 were substantially completed at the end of fiscal 2002. These restructuring actions resulted in annual reductions in cost of goods sold and operation expenses of approximately $18 million. In addition, during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001, we sold software and intellectual property associated with its iSupport on line customer support technology and recorded $10.0 million pretax, non recurring income, which was netted with the other non recurring charges. The following table shows the details of the facilities, severance and other restructuring costs accrual for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003: (in thousands) Balance at Amounts Amounts Balance at June 30, 2002 Expensed Utilized June 30, 2003 Facilities and other $ 405 $ 4,623 $ (1,835) $ 3,193 Severance and benefits 1,127 (1,080) 47 Total $ 405 $ 5,750 $ (2,915) $ 3,240 Page 34 The semiconductor equipment industry that we operate in is a highly cyclical industry. This cyclical nature affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, thus, future expense levels. We are currently in a down cycle, and if this current down cycle continues to linger or worsens, we may need to take appropriate actions to scale down operating expenses to even lower business levels. Acquisitions During fiscal years 2002 and 2001, we completed certain purchase acquisitions. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each business from the date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions were not material on either an individual or aggregate basis. For a period of up to twelve months from the acquisition date, we may change the original purchase price allocation for pre acquisition uncertainties. After twelve months, we record the fair value of such reasonably estimable contingencies. The amounts allocated to in process research and development (in process R&D) were determined through established valuation techniques in the high technology equipment industry and were expensed upon acquisition because technology feasibility had not been established and no future alternative uses existed. Amounts allocated to goodwill and purchased intangible assets are amortized on a straight line basis over periods not exceeding five years. A summary of purchase transactions is outlined as follows (in thousands): Acquisition year Acquired Company/Assets Consideration Including Assumed Liabilities Acquisition Cost Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets In Process R&D Expenses Fiscal 2002 QC Optics(1) $ 4,000 $ $4,000 $ Fiscal 2001 Phase Metrics(2) $18,000 $1,300 $5,400 $700 (1) With the acquisition of QC Optics, we received certain intellectual property in laser based inspection systems for the semiconductor, flat panel and computer hard disk manufacturing industries. (2) KLA Tencor acquired certain assets and technology of Phase Metrics, the leading supplier of inspection/certification products in the data storage industry. The difference between the purchase price and the goodwill, intangibles and in process R&D represents amount allocated to the net tangible assets acquired. There was no deferred stock based compensation for any of the acquisitions. Page 35 Interest Income and Other, Net Interest income and other, net was $42 million, $43 million and $54 million in fiscal 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Interest income and other, net is comprised primarily of interest income earned on the investment and cash portfolio, gains realized on sales of marketable securities and income recognized upon settlement of certain foreign currency contracts. The decrease in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 was primarily due to decreased interest income resulting from declining interest rates and an increase in foreign currency losses resulting from increased volatility in foreign exchange markets partially offset by an increase in realized gains on investments resulting from investment decisions which impacted the timing of realizing gains and losses for these investments. The decrease in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 was primarily due to decreased interest income resulting from declining interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes KLA Tencors effective income tax rate was 24%, 25% and 27% in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In general, our effective income tax rate differs from the statutory rate of 35% largely as a function of benefits realized from our Extraterritorial Income (ETI) exclusion, research and development tax credits and income derived from tax exempt interest. The overall reduction in our effective income tax rate from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 of 1% is primarily the result of more R&D credit, more tax exempt interest and less nondeductible losses relative to these same items as a percentage of pre tax income in the prior fiscal year. These reductions were partially offset by more relative foreign tax expense. The overall reduction in our effective income tax rate from fiscal 2001 to fiscal 2002 of 2%, was the result of a combination of factors, most important of which, were more export sales benefits, more tax exempt interest income and less state tax expense relative to these same items as a percentage of pre tax income in fiscal 2001. These reductions were partially offset by more relative foreign tax expense. Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of our pre tax income, non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions, amounts of tax exempt interest income and research and development credits as a percentage of aggregate pre tax income, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. There currently is pending legislation to repeal the existing export incentive provided by the United States Internal Revenue Code. If the legislation were enacted it would likely increase our effective rate in future periods. Page 36 Liquidity and Capital Resources Working capital was $1.16 billion as of June 30, 2003, compared to $932 million as of June 30, 2002. Cash, cash equivalents and short term marketable securities at June 30, 2003 increased to $957 million from $673 million at June 30, 2002. In addition, we maintained $531 million and $660 million in marketable securities classified as long term as of June 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively. KLA Tencor has historically financed its operations through cash generated from operations. Cash provided by operating activities was $246 million, $270 million, and $408 million in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 was primarily due to a decline in net income, increase in gains from sale of investments and other long term assets partially offset by lower accounts receivable and inventory balances. Net income decreased in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 primarily due to declining shipments, revenues and gross margins partially offset by decreased engineering, selling, general and administrative expenses associated with cost saving measures in response to the industry slowdown. Gains from the sale of investments increased due to investment decision regarding the timing of realizing gains and losses on these investments. Accounts receivable declined primarily due to strong collection efforts, as well as lower shipments. The reduction in inventory primarily occurred in production inventory, where stringent processes have been put in place for managing material procurement. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 was primarily due to decreased income before the cumulative effect of accounting change and lower accounts payable, partially offset by lower accounts receivable and inventory balances. Income before cumulative effect of accounting change decreased in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to declining shipments, revenues and gross margins partially offset by decreased engineering, selling, general and administrative expenses associated with cost saving measures in response to the industry slowdown. Accounts payable shrank due to decreased expenditures and lower incoming invoices. Accounts receivable declined primarily due to strong collection efforts, as well as lower shipments. The reduction in inventory was driven primarily in production inventory, where stringent processes have been put in place for managing material procurement. We have agreements with two Japanese institutions to sell without recourse certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes. During fiscal 2003 we sold $99 million and during 2002 we sold $98 million of trade notes and accounts receivable from Japanese customers, under these arrangements. At June 30, 2003 and 2002, $27 million and $48 million, respectively, of these receivables and notes were outstanding, which have not been included in our consolidated balance sheet as the criteria for sale treatment established by SFAS 140 have been met. Under SFAS 140, after a transfer of financial assets, an entity derecognizes financial assets when control has been surrendered, and derecognizes liabilities when extinguished. The total amount available under the facilities is the Japanese yen equivalent of $92 million based upon exchange rates as of June 30, 2003. We do not believe we are materially at risk for any losses as a result of these agreements. Page 37 Cash used in investing activities was $99 million, $362 million and $295 million in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Investing activities typically consist of purchases and sales or maturities of marketable securities, purchases of capital assets to support long term growth and acquisitions of technology or other companies to allow access to new market segments or emerging technologies. Additions of capital assets during fiscal 2003 consisted mainly of the purchase of certain of our leased buildings in November 2002 compared to fiscal 2002 additions that consisted mainly of the planned completion of our Livermore facilities. We generated $27 million of cash from financing activities in fiscal 2003 compared with $9 million and $58 million of cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively. Financing activities typically include sales and repurchases of our common stock, as well as borrowings and repayments of debt. Issuance of common stock, net of repurchases, provided $27 million in fiscal 2003. Repurchases of common stock, net of issuance, used $8 million and $60 million in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, respectively. We have adopted a plan for the systematic repurchase of shares of our common stock in the open market to reduce the dilution created by our stock based employee benefit and incentive plans. Since the inception of the repurchase program in 1997 through June 30, 2003 our Board of Directors has authorized KLA Tencor to repurchase a total of 17.8 million shares, including 5 million shares authorized in October 2002. In fiscal 2003, we repurchased 1,972,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $33.42 per share, for a total of $66 million. In fiscal 2002, we repurchased 3,341,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $36.89 per share, for a total of $123 million. In fiscal 2001, we repurchased 4,580,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $33.54 per share, for a total of $154 million. Since the inception of the repurchase program in 1997 through June 30, 2003, we have repurchased a total of 13,321,000 shares at an average price of $32.70 per share, with an additional 4.5 million shares available for repurchase under the plan. All repurchased shares remain as treasury shares. Certain of our leased facilities qualify for operating lease accounting treatment under SFAS 13, Accounting for Leases, and, as such, the facilities are not included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The lease agreement for certain Milpitas and San Jose, California facilities had a term of five years ending in November 2002, with an option to extend up to two more years. Under the terms of the lease, we, at our option, could acquire the properties at their original cost or arrange for the properties to be acquired. In November 2002, we purchased these facilities at the end of the lease term. The purchase transaction increased land and property by approximately $120 million and decreased cash by the same amount. At June 30, 2003, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $1.49 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and investments. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of the business, and others of which relate to the uncertainties of global economies and the semiconductor and the semiconductor equipment industries. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, our management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements for the next twelve months. Page 38 The following is a schedule summarizing our significant operating lease commitments as of June 30, 2003 (in millions): Payments Due by Fiscal Year Total 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Operating leases $ 21.8 $ 7.3 $4.9 $2.8 $ 1.6 $ 1.2 $ 4.0 Additionally, we maintain certain open inventory purchase commitments with our suppliers to ensure a smooth and continuous supply chain for key components. Our liability in these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecast time horizon can vary amongst different suppliers. As such, it is difficult to accurately report our true open commitments at any particular point in time. However, we estimate our open inventory purchase commitment as of June 30, 2003 to be no more than $42 million. FACTORS AFFECTING RESULTS, INCLUDING RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Fluctuations in Operating Results and Stock Price Our operating results have varied widely in the past, and our future operating results will continue to be subject to quarterly variations based upon numerous factors, including those listed in this section and throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, future operating results may not follow any past trends. We believe the factors that could make our results fluctuate and difficult to predict include: o global economic uncertainty; o the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; o changing international economic conditions; o competitive pressure; o our ability to develop and implement new technologies and introduce new products; o our ability to manage our manufacturing requirements; o our ability to protect our intellectual property; o our ability to attract, retain, and replace key employees; o worldwide political instability; and o earthquake and other uninsured risks. Operating results also could be affected by sudden changes in customer requirements, currency exchange rate fluctuations and other economic conditions affecting customer demand and the cost of operations in one or more of the global markets in which we do business. As a result of these or other factors, we could fail to achieve our expectations as to future revenue, gross profit and income from operations. Our failure to meet the performance expectations set and published by external sources could result in a sudden and significant drop in the price of our stock, particularly on a short term basis, and could negatively affect the value of any investment in our stock. Page 39 Global Economic Uncertainty Our business is ultimately driven by the global demand for electronic devices by consumers and businesses. This end user demand has been significantly depressed over the last few quarters and there has been very limited visibility as to the timing of turnaround in demand growth and from which sector this growth will come. A protracted global economic slowdown will continue to exacerbate this issue and may adversely affect our business and results of operation. Semiconductor Equipment Industry Volatility The semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical. The purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and the semiconductor industry worldwide. The timing, length and severity of the up and down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. This cyclical nature of the industry in which we operate affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, thus, future expense levels. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During a down cycle, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. If we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed. We are currently in an industry down cycle. We are not able to predict when the semiconductor industry will recover. During a down cycle, the semiconductor industry typically experiences excess production capacity that causes semiconductor manufacturers to decrease capital spending. We generally do not have long term volume production contracts with our customers, and we do not control the timing or volume of orders placed by our customers. Whether and to what extent our customers place orders for any specific products, as well as the mix and quantities of products included in those orders, are factors beyond our control. Insufficient orders, especially in our down cycles, will result in under utilization of our manufacturing facilities and infrastructure and will negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. International Trade and Economic Conditions We serve an increasingly global market. A majority of our annual revenue is derived from outside the United States, and we expect that international revenue will continue to represent a substantial percentage of our revenue. Our international revenue and operations are affected by economic conditions specific to each country and region. Because of our significant dependence on international revenue, a decline in the economies of any of the countries or regions in which we do business could negatively affect our operating results. Page 40 Managing global operations and sites located throughout the world presents challenges associated with, among other things, cultural diversity and organizational alignment. Moreover, each region in the global semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. Periodic local or international economic downturns, trade balance issues, political instability in regions where we have operations, such as Israel, and fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Although we attempt to manage near term currency risks through the use of hedging instruments, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. In addition, our ability to address normal business transaction issues in Asia is at risk due to the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome outbreak in Asia, which has resulted in managements decision to limit travel to Asia in accordance with the World Health Organizations recommendations. Competition Our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. Our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. Some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support capabilities than we can provide. We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and service that we offer. These competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services, which we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. Loss of competitive position could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenue, gross margin, and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. Our failure to compete successfully with these other companies would seriously harm our business. Technological Change and Customer Requirements Success in the semiconductor equipment industry depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. For example, the semiconductor industry continues to shrink the size of semiconductor devices, transition to copper and other new materials, and transition to new 300 millimeter fabs. While we expect these trends will increase our customers reliance on our diagnostic products, we cannot ensure that they will directly improve our business. These and other evolving customer needs require us to respond with continued development programs and to cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry wide support. Technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate professional staffing. Our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, to develop and introduce new products which successfully address changing customer needs, to win market acceptance of these new products and to manufacture these new products in a timely and cost effective manner. If we do not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed. Page 41 In this environment, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands for improved performance, features and functionality. There can be no assurance that revenue from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements or that we will be able to secure the financial resources necessary to fund future development. Substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. In addition, we cannot ensure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. Our business will be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices or if the market in which we operate does not accept our products. Key Suppliers We use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials. We generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. Because of the variability and uniqueness of customers orders, we do not maintain an extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing. We seek to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and or shortages of key parts by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Our business would be harmed if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our production requirements in a timely and cost effective manner. Manufacturing Disruption Most of our manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, with a small operation located in Israel. Operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers. We cannot ensure that alternate production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. Such disruption could result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business. Page 42 Intellectual Property Obsolescence and Infringement Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. We own various United States and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. The process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. Other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies and obtain patents relating to our technology that are similar or superior to our technology or may design around the patents we own, adversely affecting our business. We also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. However, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or successfully deter infringement by third parties. While patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. We also maintain exclusive and non exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. However, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. As is typical in the semiconductor equipment industry, from time to time we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights which they believe cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information. Our customary practice is to evaluate such assertions and to consider whether to seek licenses where appropriate. However, we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms or that costly litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. The inability to obtain necessary licenses or other rights on reasonable terms could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Key Employees Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. We generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. If we are unable to retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate or retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our needs in the future, our business and operations could be harmed. These factors could seriously harm our business. Page 43 Acquisitions In addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, we also seek to acquire new technologies from external sources. As part of this effort, we may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including management issues and costs in connection with the integration of the operations and personnel, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the possible write downs of impaired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. The inability to manage these risks effectively could seriously harm our business. Litigation From time to time we are involved in litigation of various types, including litigation that alleges infringement of intellectual property rights and other claims. Litigation tends to be expensive and requires significant management time and attention and could have a negative effect on our results of operations or business if we lose or have to settle a case on significantly adverse terms. If we lose in a dispute concerning intellectual property, a court could require us to pay substantial damages and or royalties or could issue an injunction prohibiting us from using essential technologies. For these and other reasons, this type of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, although we may seek to obtain a license under a third partys intellectual property rights in order to bring an end to certain claims or actions asserted against us, we may not be able to obtain such a license on reasonable terms or at all. Terrorism and Political Instability The threat of terrorism targeted at the regions of the world in which we do business, including the United States, increases the uncertainty in our markets and may delay any recovery in the general economy. Any delay in the recovery of the economy and the semiconductor industry could seriously impact our business. Increased international political instability, as demonstrated by the September 2001 terrorist attacks, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of the terrorist attacks, and the continuing instability in the Middle East, may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. Such continuing instability could cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. This same instability could have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. If this international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Earthquake and other uninsured risks We purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks, however, certain other risks that are uninsurable or are insurable only at significant costs are not mitigated via insurance. An earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, most of which are conducted in California. It could also significantly delay our research and engineering effort on new products, most of which is also conducted in California. We take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. We self insure earthquake risks because we believe this is the prudent financial decision based on our large cash reserves and the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. Certain other risks are also self insured either based on a similar cost benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. If one or more of the uninsured events occur, we could suffer major financial loss. Page 44 Effects of Recent Accounting Pronouncements We have adopted Statement No. 143, (SFAS 143) Accounting for Obligations Associated with the Retirement of Long Lived Assets and Statement No. 144 (SFAS 144) Accounting for the Impairment of Disposal of Long Lived Assets. SFAS 143 establishes accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of an asset retirement obligation and its associated asset retirement cost. It also provides guidance for legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets. SFAS 144 establishes a single accounting model for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, including discontinued operations. Adoption of these pronouncements did not have a significant effect on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2002, the FASB issued Statement No. 146 (SFAS 146), Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. SFAS 146 addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities, and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 94 3, Liabilities Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). This Statement requires that a liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized and measured initially at fair value only when the liability is incurred. SFAS 146 will be effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after March 31, 2003. The standard will in certain circumstances change the timing of recognition of restructuring costs. In November 2002, EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 00 21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. This issue addresses determination of whether an arrangement involving more than one deliverable contains more than one unit of accounting and how arrangement consideration should be measured and allocated to the separate units of accounting. EITF Issue No. 00 21 will be effective for revenue arrangements entered into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003 or we may elect to report the change in accounting as a cumulative effect adjustment. We are reviewing EITF Issue No. 00 21 and have not yet determined the impact this issue will have on our consolidated operating results and financial position. In December 2002, FASB issued SFAS 148, an Amendment of SFAS 123. This Statement amends SFAS 123, to provide alternative methods of transition for an entity that voluntarily changes to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. It also amends the disclosure provisions of that Statement to require prominent disclosure about the effects on reported net income of an entitys accounting policy decisions with respect to stock based employee compensation. Finally, this Statement amends APB Opinion No. 28, Interim Financial Reporting, to require disclosure about those effects in interim financial information. Since we are continuing to account for stock based compensation according to APB 25, our adoption of SFAS 148 requires us to provide prominent disclosures about the effects of SFAS 123 on reported income and requires us to disclose these affects in our interim consolidated financial statements as well. SFAS 148 was effective for interim fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2002. Adoption of this standard had no material impact on our consolidated operating results and financial position. Page 45 In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. FIN 46 requires certain variable interest entities to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. FIN 46 is effective immediately for all new variable interest entities created or acquired after January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities created or acquired prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of FIN 46 must be applied for the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2003. We believe that although the adoption of this standard will result in consolidation of certain entities, it will have no material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2003, the FASB issued Statement No. 149 (SFAS No. 149), Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. SFAS No. 149 amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments by requiring that contracts with comparable characteristics be accounted for similarly. In particular, this statement clarifies the circumstances under which a contract with an initial net investment meets the characteristics of a derivative, clarifies when a derivative contains a financing component, amends the definition of an underlying to conform it to the language used in FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, and amends certain other existing pronouncements. The provisions of SFAS No. 149, which were not already applied under an Implementation Issue, are effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003. We believe that the adoption of this standard will not have a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet or statement of operations. In May 2003, the FASB issued Statement No. 150 (SFAS No. 150), Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity. SFAS No. 150 establishes standards for classification and measurement of certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. It requires financial instruments within its scope to be classified as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). Many of those financial instruments were previously classified as equity. SFAS No. 150 is effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003. For financial instruments created before and still existing as of the issuance of this statement, a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle shall be reported upon implementation in the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. We believe that the adoption of this standard will not have a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet or statement of operations. Page 46 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. To mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position at June 30, 2003. Actual results may differ materially. At the end of fiscal 2003, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $858 million, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents (detail of these securities is included in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements found under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). These securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. If market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of June 30, 2003, the fair value of the portfolio would have declined by $1 million. As of June 30, 2003, we had net forward contracts to sell $56 million in foreign currency in order to hedge currency exposures (detail of these contracts is incorporated by reference from Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Derivative Instruments. If we had entered into these contracts on June 30, 2003, the U.S. dollar equivalent would be $55 million. A 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $23 million. However, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. Accordingly, we believe that the hedging of our foreign currency exposure should have no material impact on income or cash flows. Page 47 
 
