ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This discussion contains forward looking statements, which involve risk and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those discussed in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. (See Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements.) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions in applying our accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We based these estimates and assumptions on historical experience, and evaluate them on an on going basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We discuss the development and selection of the critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors on a quarterly basis, and the audit committee has reviewed the Companys disclosure relating to them in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The items in our financial statements requiring significant estimates and judgments are as follows: Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the sale price is fixed or determinable, delivery has occurred or services rendered, and collectibility is reasonably assured. System revenue includes hardware and software that is incidental to the product. We generally recognize system revenue upon positive affirmation by the customer that the system has been installed and is operating according to pre determined specifications. This positive affirmation is generally evidenced by an acceptance document signed by the customer. This change has the impact of prolonging the cycle time between order placement and revenue recognition. In limited cases, we allow for exceptions where we recognize system revenue upon shipment; these exceptions have accounted for approximately 4.9%, 3.1% and 2.5% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in revenue exceptions results from multiple shipments of same tools that have already met the required acceptance criteria, to customers who are looking to expand capacity. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Revenue Recognition for detailed description of exceptions.) Shipping charges billed to customers are included in system revenue and the related shipping costs are included in cost of revenues. Revenue from software license fees is typically recognized upon shipment if collection of the resulting receivable is probable, the fee is fixed or determinable, and vendor specific objective evidence exists to allocate a portion of the total fee to any undelivered elements of the arrangement. 26 Such undelivered elements in these arrangements typically consist of services and or upgrades. If vendor specific objective evidence does not exist for the undelivered elements of the arrangement, all revenue is deferred until such evidence does exist, or until all elements are delivered, whichever is earlier. In instances where an arrangement to deliver software requires significant modification or customization, license fees are recognized under the percentage of completion method of contract accounting. Allowances are established for potential product returns and credit losses. Spare parts revenue is recognized when the product has been shipped, risk of loss has passed to the customer and collection of the resulting receivable is probable. Service and maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract. If maintenance is included in an arrangement, which includes a software license agreement, amounts related to maintenance are allocated based on vendor specific objective evidence. Consulting and training revenue is recognized when the related services are performed. The deferred system profit balance as of June 30, 2004 was $285 million. This amount equals the amount of deferred system revenue that was invoiced and due on shipment less applicable product and warranty costs. The deferred profit balance increased from $177 million at June 30, 2003 primarily because shipments were higher than customer acceptance for which revenue was recognized during fiscal year 2004. We also defer the fair value of non standard warranty bundled with equipment sales as unearned revenue. Non standard warranty includes services incremental to the standard 40 hour per week coverage for twelve months. Non standard warranty is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. The unearned revenue balance increased to $57 million at June 30, 2004 from $48 million at June 30, 2003 primarily due to an increase in service contracts as our installed base of equipment at customers sites continues to increase. Inventory Reserves We review the adequacy of our inventory reserves on a quarterly basis. For production inventory, our methodology involves matching our on hand and on order inventory with our build forecast over the next twelve months. We then evaluate the parts found to be in excess of the twelve month demand and take appropriate reserves to reflect the risk of obsolescence. For spare parts inventory, we match our on hand inventory against twenty four months of usage. We then evaluate the parts in excess of the twenty four month usage and take appropriate reserves to reflect risk of obsolescence. Both methodologies are significantly affected by the usage assumption. The longer the time period of estimated usage, the lower the reserves are required. Based on our past experience, we believe the twelve month/twenty four month time periods best reflect the reasonable and relative obsolescence risks. If actual demand or usage were to be substantially lower than estimated, additional inventory adjustments for excess or obsolete inventory may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Inventory reserves, once established, are not reversed until the related inventory has been sold or scrapped. 27 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts A majority of our trade receivables are derived from sales to large multinational semiconductor manufacturers throughout the world. In order to monitor potential credit losses, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained for potential credit losses based upon our assessment of the expected collectibility of all accounts receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed periodically to assess the adequacy of the allowance. We take into consideration (1) any circumstances of which we are aware of a customers inability to meet its financial obligations; and (2) our judgments as to prevailing economic conditions in the industry and their impact on our customers. If circumstances change, and the financial condition of our customers were adversely affected resulting in their inability to meet their financial obligations to us, we may need to take additional allowances, which would result in a reduction of our net income. Warranty We provide standard warranty coverage on our systems for 40 hours per week for twelve months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair the systems during the warranty period. We account for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to cost of revenues when revenue is recognized. The estimated warranty cost is based on historical product performance and field expenses. Utilizing actual service records, we calculate the average service hours and parts expense per system and apply the labor and overhead rates to determine the estimated warranty charge. We update these estimated charges every quarter. The actual product performance and or field expense profiles may differ, and in those cases we adjust our warranty reserves accordingly. The difference between the estimated and actual warranty costs tends to be larger for new product introductions for which there is limited or no historical product performance on which to base the estimated warranty expense; more mature products with longer product performance histories tend to be more stable in our warranty charge estimates. Non standard warranty generally includes services incremental to the standard 40 hour per week coverage for twelve months. Non standard warranty is deferred as unearned revenue and is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. Contingencies and Litigation We are currently named as a party to various legal proceedings, including those disclosed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. While we currently believe the ultimate outcome of this proceeding will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. We would accrue the cost of an adverse judgment if, in our estimation, the adverse settlement is probable and we can reasonably estimate the ultimate cost to us. We have made no such accruals as of June 30, 2004. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, (SFAS 109) which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. SFAS 109 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. We have determined that our future taxable income will be sufficient to recover all of our deferred tax assets. However, should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we could be required to record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. This would result in an increase to our tax provision in the period in which we determined that the recovery was not probable. 28 On a quarterly basis, we provide for income taxes based upon an annual effective income tax rate. The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. We carefully monitor the changes in many factors and adjust our effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, this could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY New system and service orders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 were 74% higher than the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003. The growth in orders is being driven by the need of our customers to expand both 200 mm and 300 mm capacity, advance existing capacity to next generation processes, increase the efficiency of already operating production lines and overcome yield and reliability problems in next generation pilot lines. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 new system and service orders were 7% lower than the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002 due to the continued downturn in the semiconductor industry. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 our total revenues increased approximately 13% over fiscal year ended June 30, 2003, driven by increased customer demands. While our service revenue continues to grow in absolute dollar terms, most of the growth is being driven by increases in product revenues. Total revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 were approximately 19% lower than the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002. This was primarily due to a decline in customer demand for our products as a result of the downturn in the semiconductor industry. Gross margins for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 improved 6% compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003. The main reason for the increase was the lower cost of building, installing and maintaining our products. Gross margin for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 declined by 1.0% compared to fiscal year ended June 30, 2002. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, research and development expenses were 5% higher compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003, as we funded new product development programs. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003, research and development expenses declined 7% compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, due to completion of several projects that resulted in reductions in labor and material expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 and decreased 13% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 compared with the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 on account of various cost controls initiatives and reduced overhead support costs. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, we generated $350 million in cash flow from operations. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $1.9 billion as of June 30, 2004 compared to $1.5 billion as of June 30, 2003. We intend this executive summary as well as the discussion of our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity and capital resources that follows to provide information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our financial statements. 29 Over the longer term, we expect process control to continue to represent a higher percentage of our customers capital spending. We believe this increase in process control spending will be driven by the demand for more precise diagnostics capabilities to address multiple new defects as a result of further shrinking of device feature sizes, the transition to copper and other new materials, and the transition to new 300 millimeter fabs. We anticipate these factors will drive increased demand for our products and services. New system and service orders by region were as follows (in millions): Fiscal Year 2004 Fiscal Quarter 2004 Fourth Third Second First United States $ 550 $ 158 $ 192 $ 129 $ 71 Europe 247 81 70 75 21 Japan 438 138 92 128 80 Taiwan 449 167 97 89 96 Asia Pacific 370 63 148 87 72 Total orders $ 2,054 $ 607 $ 599 $ 508 $ 340 Fiscal Quarter 2003 Fiscal Year 2003 Fourth Third Second First United States $ 374 $ 104 $ 98 $ 92 $ 80 Europe 167 39 40 58 30 Japan 289 101 64 67 57 Taiwan 135 28 44 17 46 Asia Pacific 216 65 70 52 29 Total orders $ 1,181 $ 337 $ 316 $ 286 $ 242 Our backlog for unshipped system orders as of June 30, 2004 was approximately $867 million, a majority of which we expect to ship over the next six to nine months. In addition, we have $543 million of deferred revenue that is related to products that have been delivered but are awaiting written acceptance from the customer. 30 Results of Operations Revenues and Gross Margin Product revenue in fiscal year 2004 increased $140 million, or 13% to $1.2 billion, from $1.1 billion in fiscal year 2003. Product revenue increases in fiscal year 2004 were primarily the result of increased capital spending, which we believe was a result of the beginning of a semiconductor industry upturn. Product revenue in fiscal year 2003 decreased $368 million, or 26% to $1.1 billion, from $1.4 billion in fiscal year 2002. Product revenue declines in fiscal year 2003 were primarily attributable to reduced capital spending by our customers as a result of a significant reduction in the demand for semiconductors over the last two years. In fiscal year 2004, international product revenue increased to 81% of product revenue, from 71% in fiscal year 2003, due to relatively higher product revenue in Japan, Korea and Asia Pacific partially offset by lower product revenue in Europe. In fiscal year 2003, international product revenue increased slightly to 71% of product revenue, from 69% in the prior year, due to higher demand in Taiwan. Service revenue is generated from maintenance service contracts, as well as time and material billable service calls made to our customers after the expiration of the warranty period. Service revenues were $297 million, $263 million, and $209 million in fiscal year 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Service revenue continued to increase in absolute terms throughout the three year period as our installed base of equipment at our customers sites continued to grow. The amount of service revenue generated is generally a function of the number of post warranty systems installed at our customers sites and the degree of utilization of those systems. As a result of the strong order growth we experienced in fiscal year 2004, which significantly increased our shipment backlog, we expect product shipments to continue to increase, which will result in an increase in product revenue. We expect service revenue as a percentage of total revenue to decline with the increase in product revenue. Gross margins as a percentage of revenues were 55%, 49% and 50% in fiscal year 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Approximately 4% of the increase in fiscal year 2004 compared to fiscal year 2003 is attributable to streamlining of product manufacturing operations and cost management programs while approximately 2% of the improvement is attributable to improvements in installation, customer service and support programs. The decrease in fiscal year 2003 compared to fiscal year 2002 was primarily due to reduced capacity utilization, resulting from lower business volume and an increased percentage of revenue in the lower margin service business. As the conditions in the semiconductor industry continue to strengthen, we expect gross margins to continue to improve with the further increase in sales volume, introduction of new models, streamlining manufacturing costs through the use of common platforms, leveraging manufacturing procurement through consolidation of vendors and further expanding on outsourcing initiatives. 31 Engineering, Research and Development Net engineering, research and development expenses were $281 million, $268 million, and $287 million, or 19%, 20% and 18% of revenues in fiscal year 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. The gross dollars for research and development investment increased by $6 million for the fiscal year 2004 compared to fiscal year 2003. The external funding received for fiscal year 2004 compared to fiscal year 2003, decreased by $7 million. The increase in gross research and development expenses was driven by an increase in project material and labor costs as we focus on the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, in response to the recovery in the semiconductor industry. We expect our net engineering, research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we accelerate our investments in critical programs focusing on new technologies and enhancements to existing products and consolidation of the results of operations of a development stage semiconductor company as required by generally accepted accounting principles. The absolute dollars decreased in fiscal year 2003, compared to fiscal year 2002, due to engineering programs reaching certain milestones that resulted in reductions in labor and material expense, additional external funding and cost saving measures such as company mandated time off and reduction in discretionary spending implemented during fiscal year 2003 in response to the industry slow down. Our future operating results will depend significantly on our ability to produce products and provide services that have a competitive advantage in our marketplace. To do this, we believe that we must continue to make substantial investments in our research and development efforts. We remain committed to product development in new and emerging technologies as we address the further shrinking of device feature sizes, the transition to copper and other new materials, and the transition to new 300 millimeter fabs. Our investments in new technology and existing product enhancements are intended to enable our customers to achieve a higher return on their capital investments and higher productivity through cost effective, leading edge technology solutions. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses were $249 million, $254 million and $291 million, or 17%, 19% and 18% of revenues, in fiscal year 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. The absolute dollars for selling, general and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to company mandated time off, reductions in labor and discretionary spending as well as other cost saving measures implemented over fiscal years 2003 and 2002, in response to the industry slowdown and the ongoing global economic weakness. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase as we build up our organization to meet increased customer demands. Non Recurring Restructuring and Other Charges Restructuring and Other Charges In fiscal year 2004, there were no restructuring actions. In fiscal year 2003, we restructured certain of our operations to realign costs with planned business levels in light of the industry downturn. Restructuring costs were classified into two main categories: facilities and other charges of $4.6 million and severance and benefits of $1.1 million. As part of the facilities consolidation, we exited several of our leased buildings and included the remaining net book value of the related leasehold improvements as well as the future lease payments, net of anticipated sublease revenue, in the charge. Severance and benefit charges were related to the involuntary termination of approximately 70 employees from manufacturing, engineering, sales, marketing, and administration in the United States, Japan and Europe. The restructuring actions taken in fiscal year 2003 are proceeding as planned, with the termination of employees having been completed and the facilities related lease payments we expect to complete by early fiscal year 2006. The annual estimated cost savings from these restructuring actions was $9 million, of which $7 million related to workforce reductions and $2 million related to consolidation of facilities and was not expected to have a material effect on our cost of goods sold or operating expenses. There were no material variances between the actual and anticipated costs of restructuring. The following table shows a summary of restructuring activity related to the fiscal year 2003 restructuring plan for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004: 32 (in thousands) Balance at June 30, 2003 Utilized Balance at June 30, 2004 Facilities and other $ 3,193 $ (2,372 ) $ 821 Severance and benefits $ 47 $ (47 ) $ Total $ 3,240 $ (2,419 ) $ 821 In addition to the restructuring action, we also recorded severance charges totaling $10.9 million in operating expenses, throughout fiscal year 2003, relating to a series of involuntary employee terminations. We believe that both these actions will result in annual reductions in costs of goods sold and operating expenses of approximately $60 million. In fiscal year 2002, there were no restructuring charges. We recorded severance charges of $8.5 million in operating expenses relating to a series of involuntary employee terminations throughout fiscal year 2002. This resulted in annual cost reductions in costs of goods sold and operating expenses of approximately $44 million. The semiconductor equipment industry that we operate in is a highly cyclical industry. This cyclical nature affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, thus, future expense levels. If we were to enter into a down cycle, we may need to take appropriate actions to scale down operating expenses to lower business levels. 33 Interest Income and Other, Net Interest income and other, net was $27 million, $42 million and $43 million in fiscal year 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. Interest income and other, net is comprised primarily of interest income earned on the investment and cash portfolio, gains realized on sales of marketable securities and income recognized upon settlement of certain foreign currency contracts. The decrease in interest income and other, net for fiscal year 2004 as compared to fiscal year 2003 was primarily due to a decrease in gains realized on sales of marketable securities and decreased interest income resulting from declining interest rates, partially offset by an increase in gains on settlement of foreign currency contracts. The decrease in fiscal year 2003 as compared to fiscal year 2002 was primarily due to decreased interest income resulting from declining interest rates and an increase in foreign currency losses resulting from increased volatility in foreign exchange markets partially offset by an increase in realized gains on investments resulting from investment decisions which impacted the timing of realizing gains and losses for these investments. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective income tax rate was 25%, 24% and 25% in fiscal year 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In general, our effective income tax rate differs from the statutory rate of 35% largely as a function of benefits realized from our Extraterritorial Income (ETI) exclusion, research and development tax credits and interest income derived from tax exempt interest. The effective tax rate of 25% for fiscal year 2004 was higher than the effective tax rate of 24% realized in fiscal year 2003, as a result of more foreign tax expense and state tax, and less tax exempt interest and research and development tax credits. Partially offsetting these adverse changes was an increase in profits in low tax jurisdictions. The fiscal year 2004 effective tax rate of 25% includes a one time non recurring benefit of $1.5 million related to the resolution of a prior year federal tax audit matter and a non recurring write off of a deferred tax asset of $1.2 million related to an investment. The overall reduction in our effective income tax rate from fiscal year 2002 to fiscal year 2003 of 1% was primarily the result of more research and development expenses credit, more tax exempt interest and less nondeductible losses relative to these same items as a percentage of pre tax income in the prior fiscal year. These reductions were partially offset by more relatively foreign tax expense. Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of our pre tax income, non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions, amounts of tax exempt interest income and research and development credits as a percentage of aggregate pre tax income, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. There currently is pending legislation to repeal the existing export incentive provided by the United States Internal Revenue Code. If enacted, this legislation would likely increase our effective rate in future periods. In addition, the research and development credit contained in the United States Internal Revenue Code has expired under a sunset provision. While we expect federal legislation to be passed which would reinstate the research and development credit retroactive to July 1, 2004, we have not provided a benefit for the credit in our projected effective rate for fiscal year 2005. If the research and development credit is ultimately reinstated, our effective tax rate will be reduced. 34 Liquidity and Capital Resources Working capital was $1.3 billion as of June 30, 2004, compared to $1.2 billion as of June 30, 2003. Cash, cash equivalents and short term marketable securities at June 30, 2004 increased to $1.1 billion from $957 million at June 30, 2003. In addition, we maintained $743 million and $531 million in marketable securities classified as long term as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We have historically financed our operations through cash generated from operations. Cash provided by operating activities was $350 million, $246 million, and $270 million in fiscal year 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2004 compared to fiscal year 2003 was primarily due to increases in net income, deferred profit and accounts payable, partially offset by higher accounts receivable and inventory balances. Net income and deferred profit increased in fiscal year 2004, compared to fiscal year 2003, primarily due to increased shipments, revenues and gross margins partially offset by increased engineering, selling, general and administrative expenses due to the ramp up in customer demand. Accounts receivable increased primarily due to higher shipments, partially offset by strong collection efforts. The increase in accounts payable and inventory was driven primarily due to a ramp up of production in response to increase in customer demand for our products. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2003 compared to fiscal year 2002 was primarily due to a decline in net income, increase in gains from sale of investments and other long term assets partially offset by lower accounts receivable and inventory balances. Net income decreased in fiscal year 2003 compared to fiscal year 2002 primarily due to declining shipments, revenues and gross margins partially offset by decreased engineering, selling, general and administrative expenses associated with cost saving measures in response to the industry slowdown. Gains from the sale of investments increased due to investment decision regarding the timing of realizing gains and losses on these investments. Accounts receivable declined primarily due to strong collection efforts, as well as lower shipments. The reduction in inventory primarily occurred in production inventory, where stringent processes have been put in place for managing material procurement. We have agreements with three banking institutions to sell without recourse certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from Japanese customers. During fiscal year 2004 and 2003 we sold $116 million and $99 million, respectively, of trade receivables and promissory notes from Japanese customers, under these arrangements. At June 30, 2004 and 2003, $51 million and $27 million, respectively, of these receivables and notes were outstanding, which have not been included in our consolidated balance sheet. The total amount available under the facilities is the Japanese yen equivalent of $138 million based upon exchange rates as of June 30, 2004. We do not believe we are materially at risk for any losses as a result of these agreements. In addition, from time to time we will discount without recourse Letters of Credit (LCs) received from customers in payment of goods. During the fiscal year 2004 several LCs were sold with proceeds totaling $42 million. Discounting fees of $0.2 million for fiscal year 2004 were equivalent to interest expense and were recorded in interest and other income net. Cash used in investing activities was $274 million, $99 million and $362 million in fiscal year 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Investing activities typically consist of purchases and sales or maturities of marketable securities, purchases of capital assets to support long term growth and acquisitions of technology or other companies to allow access to new market segments or emerging technologies. Additions of capital assets during fiscal year 2003 consisted mainly of the purchase of certain of our leased buildings in November 2002 compared to fiscal year 2002 additions that consisted mainly of the planned completion of our Livermore, California facilities. 35 We generated $113 million and $27 million of cash from financing activities in fiscal year 2004 and 2003, respectively, compared with $9 million of cash used in financing activities in fiscal year 2002. Financing activities typically include sales and repurchases of our common stock, as well as borrowings and repayments of debt. Issuance of common stock provided $169 million, $92 million and $115 million in fiscal year 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. We used $56 million, $66 million and $123 million in fiscal year 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively to repurchase shares of our common stock under the stock repurchase program initiated in 1997. We have adopted a plan for the systematic repurchase of shares of our common stock in the open market to reduce the dilution created by our stock based employee benefit and incentive plans. Since the inception of the repurchase program in 1997 through June 30, 2004 our Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase a total of 17.8 million shares, including 5 million shares authorized in October 2002. In fiscal year 2004, we repurchased 1,175,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $47.49 per share, for a total of $56 million. In fiscal year 2003, we repurchased 1,972,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $33.42 per share, for a total of $66 million. In fiscal year 2002, we repurchased 3,341,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $36.89 per share, for a total of $123 million. Since the inception of the repurchase program in 1997 through June 30, 2004, we have repurchased a total of 14,496,000 shares at an average price of $33.90 per share, with an additional 3.3 million shares available for repurchase under the plan. All repurchased shares remain as treasury shares. Certain of our leased facilities qualify for operating lease accounting treatment under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard 13, Accounting for Leases, and, as such, the facilities were not included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The lease agreement for certain Milpitas and San Jose, California facilities had a term of five years ending in November 2002, with an option to extend up to two more years. Under the terms of the lease, we, at our option, could acquire the properties at their original cost or arrange for the properties to be acquired. In November 2002, we purchased these facilities at the end of the lease term. The purchase transaction increased land and property by approximately $120 million and decreased cash by the same amount. At June 30, 2004, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $1.9 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of the business, and others of which relate to the uncertainties of global economies and the semiconductor and the semiconductor equipment industries. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, our management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements for at least the next twelve months. 36 The following is a schedule summarizing our significant operating lease commitments as of June 30, 2004 (in millions): Payments Due by Fiscal Year Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Operating leases $ 23.9 $ 8.5 $ 5.6 $ 2.8 $ 1.8 $ 1.5 $ 3.7 Additionally, we maintain certain open inventory purchase commitments with our suppliers to help ensure a smooth and continuous supply chain for key components. Our liability in these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecast time horizon and penalties under cancellation provisions can vary amongst different suppliers. As such, it is difficult to report accurately our true open commitments at any particular point in time. However, we estimate our open inventory purchase commitment as of June 30, 2004 to be approximately $131 million. FACTORS AFFECTING RESULTS, INCLUDING RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Fluctuations in Operating Results and Stock Price Our operating results have varied widely in the past, and our future operating results will continue to be subject to quarterly variations based upon numerous factors, including those listed in this section and throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, future operating results may not follow any past trends. We believe the factors that could make our results fluctuate and difficult to predict include: the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; global economic uncertainty; changing international economic conditions; competitive pressure; our ability to develop and implement new technologies and introduce new products; our customers acceptance and adoption of our new products and technologies; our ability to manage our manufacturing requirements; our ability to protect our intellectual property; our ability to attract, retain, and replace key employees; worldwide political instability; earthquake and other uninsured risks; and future changes in accounting and tax standards or practices Operating results also could be affected by sudden changes in customer requirements, currency exchange rate fluctuations and other economic conditions affecting customer demand and the cost of operations in one or more of the global markets in which we do business. As a result of these or other factors, we could fail to achieve our expectations as to future revenue, gross profit and income from operations. Our failure to meet the performance expectations set and published by external sources could result in a sudden and significant drop in the price of our stock, particularly on a short term basis, and could negatively affect the value of any investment in our stock. 37 Semiconductor Equipment Industry Volatility The semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical. The purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and the semiconductor industry worldwide. The timing, length and severity of the up and down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. This cyclical nature of the industry in which we operate affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, thus, future expense levels. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During a down cycle, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. If we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed. Global Economic Uncertainty Our business is ultimately driven by the global demand for electronic devices by consumers and businesses. This end user demand has been significantly depressed over the last few quarters and there has been very limited visibility as to the timing of turnaround in demand growth and from which sector this growth will come. A protracted global economic slowdown will continue to exacerbate this issue and may adversely affect our business and results of operation. International Trade, Operations and Economic Conditions We serve an increasingly global market. A majority of our annual revenue is derived from outside the United States, and we expect that international revenue will continue to represent a substantial percentage of our revenue. Our international revenue and operations are affected by economic conditions specific to each country and region. Because of our significant dependence on international revenue, a decline in the economies of any of the countries or regions in which we do business could negatively affect our operating results. Managing global operations and sites located throughout the world presents challenges associated with, among other things, cultural diversity and organizational alignment. Moreover, each region in the global semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. Periodic local or international economic downturns, trade balance issues, political instability or terrorism in regions where we have operations and fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Although we attempt to manage near term currency risks through the use of hedging instruments, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. 38 Competition Our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. Our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. Some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support capabilities than we can provide. We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and service that we offer. These competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services, which we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. Loss of competitive position could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenue, gross margins, and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. Our failure to compete successfully with these other companies would seriously harm our business. Technological Change and Customer Requirements Success in the semiconductor equipment industry depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. For example, the semiconductor industry continues to shrink the size of semiconductor devices, transition to copper and other new materials, and transition to new 300 millimeter fabs. While we expect these trends will increase our customers reliance on our diagnostic products, we cannot ensure that they will directly improve our business. These and other evolving customer needs require us to respond with continued development programs and to cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry wide support. Technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate staff of highly qualified employees. Our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, to develop and introduce new products which successfully address changing customer needs, to win market acceptance of these new products and to manufacture these new products in a timely and cost effective manner. If we do not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed. In this environment, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands for improved performance, features and functionality. There can be no assurance that revenue from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements or that we will be able to secure the financial resources necessary to fund future development. Substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. In addition, we cannot ensure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. Our business will be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices or if the market in which we operate does not accept our products. 39 Key Suppliers We use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials. We generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. Because of the variability and uniqueness of customers orders, we do not maintain an extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing. We seek to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and or shortages of key parts by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Our business would be harmed if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our production requirements in a timely and cost effective manner. Manufacturing Disruption Most of our manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, with a small operation located in Israel. Operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers. We cannot ensure that alternate production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. Such disruption could result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business. We currently are in the initial stages of design and implementation of a new integrated financial and supply chain management system. Disruptions or delays in making changes to our integrated financial and supply chain management system could adversely impact our operations and our ability to forecast sales demand, ship products, manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Intellectual Property Obsolescence and Infringement Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. We own various United States and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. The process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. Other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies and obtain patents relating to our technology that are similar or superior to our technology or may design around the patents we own, adversely affecting our business. 40 We also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. However, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or successfully deter infringement by third parties. While patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. We also maintain exclusive and non exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. However, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. As is typical in the semiconductor equipment industry, from time to time we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights which they believe cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information. Our customary practice is to evaluate such assertions and to consider whether to seek licenses where appropriate. However, we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms or that costly litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. The inability to obtain necessary licenses or other rights on reasonable terms, or instigation of litigation or other administrative proceedings could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Key Employees Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. We generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. If we are unable to retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate or retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our needs in the future, our business and operations could be harmed. Acquisitions In addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, we also seek to acquire new technologies from external sources. As part of this effort, we may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including management issues and costs in connection with the integration of the operations and personnel, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the possible write downs of impaired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. The inability to manage these risks effectively could seriously harm our business. 41 Litigation From time to time we are involved in litigation of various types, including litigation alleging infringement of intellectual property rights and other claims. Litigation tends to be expensive and requires significant management time and attention and could have a negative effect on our results of operations or business if we lose or have to settle a case on significantly adverse terms. Compliance with Internal Controls Evaluations and Attestation Requirements Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required, beginning in fiscal 2005, to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and have our auditor publicly attest to such evaluation. We have prepared an internal plan of action for compliance, which includes a timeline and scheduled activities, although as of the date of this filing we have not yet prepared the evaluation. Compliance with these requirements is expected to be expensive and time consuming. If we fail to timely complete this evaluation, or if our registered independent accounting firm cannot timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Terrorism and Political Instability The threat of terrorism targeted at the regions of the world in which we do business, including the United States, increases the uncertainty in our markets and may delay any recovery in the general economy. Any delay in the recovery of the economy and the semiconductor industry could adversely affect our business. Increased international political instability, as demonstrated by the September 2001 terrorist attacks, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of the terrorist attacks, and the continuing instability in the Middle East, may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. Such continuing instability could cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. This same instability could have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. If this international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Earthquake and Other Uninsured Risks We purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks, however, certain other risks that are uninsurable or are insurable only at significant costs are not mitigated via insurance. An earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, most of which are conducted in California. It could also significantly delay our research and engineering effort on new products, most of which is also conducted in California. We take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. We self insure earthquake risks because we believe this is the prudent financial decision based on our large cash reserves and the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. Certain other risks are also self insured either based on a similar cost benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss. 42 Future Changes in Accounting and Taxation Standards or Practices A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, any changes requiring that we record compensation expense in the statement of operations for employee stock options using the fair value method or changes in existing taxation rules related to stock options could have a significant negative effect on our reported results. Several agencies and entities are considering, and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has announced, proposals to change generally accepted accounting principles in the United States that, if implemented, would require us to record charges to earnings for employee stock option grants. This pending requirement would negatively impact our earnings. Effects of Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2003, Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 132 (revised 2003), Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits, (SFAS 132) was issued and amends further the annual disclosure requirements and requires new quarterly disclosures for pensions and other postretirement benefits. The revised Statement addresses disclosures only. It does not address liability measurement or expense recognition, which is determined in accordance with SFAS 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS 87). We have provided the amended annual disclosures pursuant to SFAS 132 in Note 7 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements found under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In March 2004, the FASB issued a proposed Statement, Share Based Payment, an amendment of FASB Statements Nos. 123 and 95, that addresses the accounting for share based payment transactions in which a company receives employee services in exchange for either equity instruments of the company or liabilities that are based on the fair value of the companys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of such equity instruments. The proposed statement would eliminate the ability to account for share based compensation transactions using the intrinsic method that we currently use and generally would require that such transactions be accounted for using a fair value based method and recognized as expense in our consolidated statement of operations. The recommended effective date of the proposed statement is currently for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2004. Should this proposed statement be finalized in its current form, it will have a significant impact on our consolidated statement of operations as we will be required to expense the fair value of our stock option grants and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. In addition the proposed standard may have a significant impact on our consolidated cash flows from operations (no impact to our total consolidated cash flows) as, under this proposed standard, we will be required to reclassify a portion of our tax benefit on the exercise of employee stock options from cash flows from operating activities to cash flows from financing activities. 43 In March 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on recognition and measurement guidance previously discussed under EITF Issue No. 03 01, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. (EITF 03 01). The consensus clarifies the meaning of other than temporary impairment and its application to investments in debt and equity securities, in particular investments within the scope of FASB Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, and investments accounted for under the cost method. This consensus is to be applied to other than temporary impairment evaluations in reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2004. We do not believe that this consensus will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. To mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position at June 30, 2004. Actual results may differ materially. At the end of fiscal year 2004, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $1.07 billion, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents (detail of these securities is included in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements found under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). These securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. If market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of June 30, 2004, the fair value of the portfolio would have declined by $3 million. As of June 30, 2004, we had net forward contracts to sell $107 million in foreign currency in order to hedge currency exposures (detail of these contracts is included in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Derivative Instruments. If we had entered into these contracts on June 30, 2004, the U.S. dollar equivalent would be $133 million. A 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $29 million. However, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. Accordingly, we believe that the hedging of our foreign currency exposure should have no material impact on income or cash flows. 44 
 
