ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This discussion contains forward looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. (See Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements.) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND POLICIES The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions in applying our accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We based these estimates and assumptions on historical experience, and evaluate them on an on going basis to ensure that they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We discuss the development and selection of the critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the Companys related disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The items in our financial statements requiring significant estimates and judgments are as follows: Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. We derive revenue from three sources sales of systems, spare parts and services. We typically recognize revenue for system sales upon acceptance by the customer that the system has been installed and is operating according to predetermined specifications. Under certain circumstances, however, we recognize revenue prior to written acceptance from the customer, as follows: When system sales to independent distributors have no installation requirement, contain no acceptance agreement, and 100% payment is due upon shipment, revenue is recognized upon shipment. When the installation of the system is deemed perfunctory, revenue is recognized upon shipment. The portion of revenue associated with installation is deferred based on estimated fair value, and that revenue is recognized upon completion of the installation. When the customer fab has already accepted the same tool, with the same specifications, and it can be objectively demonstrated that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria upon shipment, revenue is recognized upon shipment. The portion of revenue associated with installation is deferred based on estimated fair value, and that revenue is recognized upon completion of the installation. When the customer withholds signature on our acceptance document due to issues unrelated to product performance, revenue is recognized when the system is performing as intended and meets all published and contractually agreed specifications. When the system is damaged during transit and title has passed to the customer, revenue is recognized upon receipt of cash payment from the customer. Total revenue recognized without a written acceptance from the customer was approximately 24%, 14% and 16% of total revenues for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in revenue recognized without a written acceptance for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was primarily driven by higher shipments of the same tools with same specifications that have previously been accepted at the applicable customer fabs. The decrease in revenue recognized without a written acceptance for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was 34 Table of Contents primarily driven by lower shipments of tools that had already met the required acceptance criteria at those customer fabs. Shipping charges billed to customers are included in system revenue, and the related shipping costs are included in costs of revenues. Trade in rights are occasionally granted to customers to trade in tools in connection with subsequent purchases. We estimate the value of the trade in right and reduce the revenue of the initial sale. This amount is recognized at the earlier of the exercise of the trade in right or the expiration of the trade in right. Spare parts revenue is recognized when the product has been shipped, risk of loss has passed to the customer and collection of the resulting receivable is probable. Service and maintenance contract revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract. Services performed in the absence of a contract, such as consulting and training revenue, are recognized when the related services are performed, and collectibility is reasonably assured. The deferred system profit balance equals the amount of deferred system revenue that was invoiced and due on shipment, less applicable product and warranty costs. Deferred system revenue represents the value of products that have been shipped and billed to customers which has not met the revenue recognition criteria of the Company. Deferred system profit does not include the profit associated with product shipments to customers in Japan, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. We also defer the fair value of non standard warranty bundled with equipment sales as unearned revenue. Non standard warranty includes services incremental to the standard 40 hour per week coverage for twelve months. Non standard warranty is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. Revenue Recognition for Certain Arrangements with Software Elements and or Multiple Deliverables. In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended the accounting standards for revenue recognition to remove tangible products containing software components and non software components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality from the scope of industry specific software revenue recognition guidance. In October 2009, the FASB also amended the accounting standards for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements to: provide updated guidance on how the deliverables in an arrangement should be separated, and how the consideration should be allocated; eliminate the use of the residual method and require an entity to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method; and require an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices (ESP) of deliverables if it does not have vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) or third party evidence (TPE) of selling price. Valuation terms are defined as follows: VSOE the price at which we sell the element in a separate stand alone transaction. TPE evidence from us or other companies of the value of a largely interchangeable element in a transaction. ESP our best estimate of the selling price of an element in a transaction. We elected to early adopt this accounting guidance at the beginning of our second quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010 and have applied the adoption retrospectively to the beginning of the fiscal year to apply the guidance to transactions originating or materially modified after June 30, 2009. The implementation resulted in additional qualitative disclosures that are included in the footnotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements but did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 35 Table of Contents For transactions entered into through June 30, 2009, we primarily recognized revenue based on the guidance in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104. During the period, for the majority of our arrangements involving multiple deliverables, the entire amount of the sales contract was allocated to each respective element based on its relative selling price, using fair value. In the limited circumstances when we were not able to determine fair value for the deliverables in the arrangement, but were able to obtain fair value for the undelivered elements, revenue was allocated using the residual method. Under the residual method, the amount of revenue allocated to delivered elements equaled the total arrangement consideration less the aggregate selling price of any undelivered elements, and no revenue was recognized until all elements without fair value had been delivered. If fair value of any undelivered elements did not exist, the entire amount of the sales contract was deferred until all elements were accepted by the customer. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (on a first in, first out basis) or market. Demonstration units are stated at their manufacturing cost, and written down to their net realizable value. We review and set standard costs semi annually at current manufacturing costs in order to approximate actual costs. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of forecasted spending over projected volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Abnormal inventory costs such as costs of idle facilities, excess freight and handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) are recognized as current period charges. We write down product inventory based on forecasted demand and technological obsolescence and parts inventory based on past usage. These factors are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may include uncertain elements. Actual demand may differ from forecasted demand, and such differences may have a material effect on recorded inventory values. Warranty. We provide standard warranty coverage on our systems for 40 hours per week for twelve months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair the systems during the warranty period. We account for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to costs of revenues when revenue is recognized. The estimated warranty cost is based on historical product performance and field expenses. Utilizing actual service records, we calculate the average service hours and parts expense per system and apply the actual labor and overhead rates to determine the estimated warranty charge. We update these estimated charges on a quarterly basis. The actual product performance and or field expense profiles may differ, and in those cases we adjust our warranty accruals accordingly. See Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed description. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. A majority of our trade receivables are derived from sales to large multinational semiconductor manufacturers throughout the world. In order to monitor potential credit losses, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained for probable credit losses based upon our assessment of the expected collectibility of all accounts receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed on a quarterly basis to assess the adequacy of the allowance. We take into consideration (1) any circumstances of which we are aware of a customers inability to meet its financial obligations; and (2) our judgments as to prevailing economic conditions in the industry and their impact on our customers. If circumstances change, such that the financial conditions of our customers are adversely affected and they are unable to meet their financial obligations to us, we may need to take additional allowances, which would result in a reduction of our net income. Stock Based Compensation. We account for stock based awards exchanged for employee services based on the fair value of those awards. The fair value of stock based awards is measured at the grant date and is recognized as expense over the employees requisite service period. The fair value is determined using a Black Scholes valuation model for stock options and for purchase rights under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date for restricted stock units. The Black Scholes 36 Table of Contents option pricing model requires the input of subjective assumptions, including the options expected life and the expected price volatility of the underlying stock. The expected stock price volatility assumption is based on the market based implied volatility from traded options of our common stock. Contingencies and Litigation. We are subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Considerable judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of any loss from such contingencies. An accrual is made when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We accrue a liability and charge operations for the estimated costs expected to be incurred over the next twelve months of adjudication or settlement of asserted and unasserted claims existing as of the balance sheet date. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed description. Goodwill and Intangible Assets. We assess goodwill for impairment annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long lived intangible assets are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. See Note 6, Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed description. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in each business combination. We conducted our annual evaluation of goodwill by reporting unit during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and concluded that there was no impairment. There have been no significant events or circumstances affecting the valuation of goodwill subsequent to the impairment test performed in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. Income Taxes. We account for income taxes in accordance with the authoritative guidance that requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. The guidance also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. We have determined that a valuation allowance was necessary against a portion of the deferred tax assets, but our future taxable income will be sufficient to recover the remainder of our deferred tax assets. However, should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we could be required to record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. This would result in an increase to our tax provision in the period in which we determined that the recovery was not probable. On a quarterly basis, we provide for income taxes based upon an estimated annual effective income tax rate. The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. We carefully monitor the changes in many factors and adjust our effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, this could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. In accordance with the authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, we recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two step process prescribed within the interpretation. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Any change in these factors could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. 37 Table of Contents Valuation of Marketable Securities. Our investments in available for sale securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains related to increases in the fair value of investments and unrealized losses related to decreases in the fair value are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, as reported on our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity. However, changes in the fair value of investments impact our net income only when such investments are sold or impairment is recognized. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification of the securitys cost basis. We periodically review our investment portfolio to determine if any investment is other than temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns, which would require us to record an impairment charge in the period any such determination is made. In making this judgment, we evaluate, among other things, the duration of the investment, the extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost, the credit rating and any changes in credit rating for the investment, and our ability and intent to hold the investment until the earlier of market price recovery or maturity. Our assessment that an investment is not other than temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment. Fair Value Measurements. We adopted authoritative guidance for fair value measurements as of the beginning of fiscal year 2009. In February 2008, the FASB issued a provision that allowed companies to elect a one year delay in applying the fair value measurements guidance to certain fair value measurements, primarily related to non financial assets and liabilities. We elected the delayed adoption date for our non financial assets and liabilities impacted by the guidance. This guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value under generally accepted accounting principles and enhances disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Valuation techniques used to measure fair value must maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The adoption of the guidance relating to the fair value measurement of non financial assets and liabilities on July 1, 2009 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. See Note 2, Fair Value Measurements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Concurrently with the adoption of the fair value measurement and disclosure provisions, we adopted authoritative guidance that permits entities to elect, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value. See Note 2, Fair Value Measurements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Effects of Recent Accounting Pronouncements. In April 2010, the FASB amended its guidance on share based payment awards denominated in certain currencies. The amendment clarifies that an employee share based payment award with an exercise price denominated in the currency of a market in which a substantial portion of the entitys equity securities trades should not be considered to contain a condition that is not a market, performance, or service condition. Therefore, an entity would not classify such an award as a liability if it otherwise qualifies as equity. This amendment becomes effective for our interim period ending September 30, 2011. We do not expect the implementation to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In April 2010, the FASB amended the authoritative guidance addressing accounting for arrangements in which a vendor satisfies its performance obligations over time, with all or a portion of the consideration contingent on future events, referred to as milestones. The scope of the new guidance is limited to milestones in arrangements that involve research or development activities, such as the successful completion of a drug study phase. The amendment provides guidance on the criteria that should be met for determining whether the milestone method of revenue recognition is appropriate. A vendor can recognize consideration that is contingent upon achievement of a milestone in its entirety as revenue in the period in which the milestone is achieved only if the milestone meets all criteria to be considered substantive. A vendor that is affected by the amendments is required to provide a description of the overall arrangement, a description of each milestone and related contingent consideration, a determination of whether each milestone is considered substantive, the factors that 38 Table of Contents the entity considered in determining whether the milestone or milestones are substantive, and the amount of consideration recognized during the period for the milestone or milestones. This amendment becomes effective for our interim period ending September 30, 2010, and we do not expect the amendment to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In March 2010, the FASB amended the authoritative guidance on derivatives and hedging. The amendment addresses the scope exception related to embedded credit derivatives to clarify when analysis of an embedded credit derivative for bifurcation from the host contract is not required. It specifies that embedded credit derivatives not qualifying for the scope exception, such as an embedded derivative related to a credit default swap on a referenced credit, would be subject to a bifurcation analysis even if their effects are allocated to interests in subordinated tranches of securitized financial instruments. The amended guidance requires that an entity separately disclose, on an instrument by instrument basis, the gross gains and gross losses that comprise the cumulative effect adjustment that results from adopting the amended guidance. The amended guidance becomes effective for our interim period ending September 30, 2010. We currently do not hold such derivatives, and do not expect the amendment to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In February 2010, the SEC issued a policy statement and staff work plan regarding the potential use by U.S. issuers of financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). IFRS is a comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the International Accounting Standards Board. Under the proposed timeline set forth by the SEC, we could be required in fiscal year 2015 to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS, and the SEC is expected to make a determination in 2011 regarding the mandatory adoption of IFRS. We are currently assessing the impact that this potential change would have on our consolidated financial statements, and we will continue to monitor the development of the potential implementation of IFRS. In February 2010, the FASB amended its guidance on subsequent events. The amendment states that entities that are required to file or furnish their financial statements with the SEC are no longer required to disclose the date through which the entity has evaluated subsequent events. This amendment was effective for our interim reporting period ended March 31, 2010, and the implementation did not have an impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows as it is disclosure only in nature. In January 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for fair value measurements. This guidance now requires a reporting entity to disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and also to describe the reasons for these transfers. This authoritative guidance also requires enhanced disclosure of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements. The guidance for Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements was effective for our interim reporting period ended March 31, 2010. The implementation did not have an impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows as it is disclosure only in nature. The guidance for Level 3 fair value measurements disclosures becomes effective for our interim reporting period ending September 30, 2011, and we do not expect that this guidance will have an impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows as it is disclosure only in nature. In October 2009, the FASB amended its Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) authoritative guidance addressing revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. The guidance requires revenue to be allocated to multiple elements using relative fair value based on vendor specific objective evidence, third party evidence or estimated selling price. The residual method also becomes obsolete under this guidance. This guidance is effective for our interim reporting period ending September 30, 2010, and allows for early adoption. We elected to early adopt the accounting guidance at the beginning of the second quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2010 and have applied the adoption retrospectively to the beginning of the fiscal year to apply the guidance to transactions originating or materially modified after June 30, 2009. The implementation resulted in additional qualitative disclosures but did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 39 Table of Contents In October 2009, the FASB amended the authoritative guidance addressing certain revenue arrangements that include software elements. This guidance states that tangible products with hardware and software components that work together to deliver the product functionality are considered non software products, and the accounting guidance for revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables is to be followed with respect to such products. This guidance is effective for our interim reporting period ending September 30, 2010, and allows for early adoption. We elected to early adopt the accounting guidance at the beginning of the second quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2010 and have applied the adoption retrospectively to the beginning of the fiscal year to apply the guidance to transactions originating or materially modified after June 30, 2009. The implementation resulted in additional qualitative disclosures but did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In August 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for measuring liabilities at fair value that reaffirms the previously existing definition of fair value and reintroduces the concept of entry value into the determination of fair value of liabilities. Entry value is the amount an entity would receive to enter into an identical liability. The guidance was effective for our interim reporting period ended December 31, 2009. The implementation did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for consolidations that changes how a company determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. The determination of whether a company is required to consolidate an entity is based on, among other things, an entitys purpose and design and a companys ability to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance. This guidance was effective for our interim reporting period ending September 30, 2010. We are currently evaluating the impact of the guidance on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to establish the FASB Accounting Standards Codification as the source of authoritative accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles used in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. This guidance was effective for our interim reporting period ended September 30, 2009 and only impacted references for accounting guidance. In April 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for business combinations that amends the provisions related to the initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination. This guidance will require such contingencies to be recognized at fair value on the acquisition date if fair value can be reasonably estimated during the allocation period. Otherwise, entities would typically account for the acquired contingencies in accordance with authoritative guidance for contingencies. The guidance became effective for our business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after July 1, 2009. The implementation did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, and the effect of this guidance, if any, on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in future periods will depend on the nature and significance of business combinations subject to this guidance. In April 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to increase the frequency of fair value disclosures of financial instruments, thereby enhancing consistency in financial reporting. The guidance relates to fair value disclosures for any financial instruments that are not currently reflected on a companys balance sheet at fair value. Prior to the effective date of this guidance, fair values for these types of financial assets and liabilities had only been disclosed once a year. The guidance requires these disclosures on a quarterly basis, providing qualitative and quantitative information about fair value estimates for all those financial instruments not measured on the balance sheet at fair value. The disclosure requirement under this guidance was effective for our interim reporting period ended September 30, 2009. The implementation did not have an impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows as it is disclosure only in nature. 40 Table of Contents In December 2008, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for an employers disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other post retirement plan. The guidance requires annual disclosures surrounding how investment allocation decisions are made, including the factors that are pertinent to an understanding of investment policies and strategies. The annual disclosure requirement under this guidance was effective for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2010. The implementation resulted in additional qualitative disclosures, but did not change the accounting treatment for postretirement benefit plans. In April 2008, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for general intangibles other than goodwill, amending the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset. This guidance is effective for intangible assets acquired on or after July 1, 2009. The adoption did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 41 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE SUMMARY KLA Tencor Corporation is a leading supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries. Within our primary area of focus, our comprehensive portfolio of products, services, software and expertise helps integrated circuit (IC or chip) manufacturers manage yield throughout the entire semiconductor fabrication process from research and development to final volume production. In addition to the semiconductor industry, our technologies serve a number of other industries, including the high brightness light emitting diode (HBLED), data storage, and photovoltaic industries, as well as general materials research. Our products and services are used by the vast majority of wafer, IC, reticle and disk manufacturers in the world. Our revenues are driven largely by capital spending by our customers who operate in one or more of several key semiconductor markets, including the memory, foundry and logic markets. Our customers purchase our products either in response to the need to drive advances in process technologies or to ramp up production to satisfy demand from industries such as communication, data processing, consumer electronics, automotive and aerospace. We believe that, over the long term, our customers will continue to invest in advanced technologies and new materials to enable smaller design rules and higher density applications, as well as reduced cost, which in turn will drive increased adoption of process control to reduce defectivity. As a supplier to the global semiconductor and semiconductor related industries, we are subject to business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be difficult to predict. The industries we serve have historically been cyclical due to sudden changes in demand and manufacturing capacity. Our ability to predict future capacity related capital spending by our customers is extremely limited, as such spending is very closely connected to the unpredictable business cycles within their industries. While our customer base, particularly in the semiconductor industry, historically has been, and is becoming increasingly, highly concentrated, we expect capital spending of our customers on process control to increase over the long term, driven by the demand for more precise diagnostics capabilities to address new defects as a result of shrinking device feature sizes, the transition to new materials, new device and circuit architecture, new lithography challenges and fab process innovation. The demand for our products is generally affected by the profitability of our customers, which is driven by capacity and market supply for their products, as well as the willingness and ability of our customers to invest in new technologies. The increase in the semiconductor content in communication, data processing, consumer electronics, automotive and aerospace products, combined with the improving global economic environment during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, favorably impacted our customers and consequently accelerated the demand for our products. As our customers accelerate capital investments, we have started to increase production volumes to support anticipated customer demand. However, we cannot predict the duration and sustainability of the improving business conditions. As we increase production volumes and make commitments to increase our capacity in anticipation of improved business conditions, we remain at risk of incurring inventory related and other restructuring charges if the recent improved business conditions do not continue. The following table sets forth some of our key consolidated financial information for each of our last three fiscal years: Year ended June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 Total revenues $ 1,820,760 $ 1,520,216 $ 2,521,716 Costs of revenues $ 815,662 $ 864,824 $ 1,134,856 Gross margin percentage 55 % 43 % 55 % Net income (loss) $ 212,300 $ (523,368 ) $ 359,083 Diluted income (loss) per share $ 1.23 $ (3.07 ) $ 1.95 42 Table of Contents The results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 reflected improved fundamentals in the semiconductor industry driven by improvement in the economic environment, and strong demand from our foundry customers. Sales of our products and demand for our services improved as our customers ramped up their operations in response to improved market conditions. Even as we increased our business activity levels and shipped more products to our customers during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, we maintained tight controls over costs, which resulted in strong gross margins as well as net income. The results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 indicated the weak demand for semiconductor capital equipment and service due to the unfavorable global economic and industry conditions. The macroeconomic uncertainty led our customers to significantly reduce their factory operations and spending. While we took actions to restructure our operations and reduce our cost structure in response to the deteriorating market conditions, the rapid decline in revenues resulted in a significant deterioration in gross margins and a net loss. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, we completed the acquisition of the Microelectronic Inspection Equipment business unit (MIE business unit) of Vistec Semiconductor Systems for net cash consideration of approximately $141.4 million. The acquired MIE business unit is a provider of mask registration measurement tools, Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) based tools for mask critical dimension measurement and macro defect inspection systems. Our financial results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 also included significant charges associated with impairment of goodwill, purchased intangible assets and other long lived assets, as well as restructuring programs. The results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 reflected the culmination of a period of improved conditions in the semiconductor industry that began with the industry recovery in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. While the semiconductor market, and overall economic conditions, had started to weaken throughout the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, our backlog position driven by demand from dynamic random access memory (DRAM) and flash memory chip manufacturers enabled us to generate strong revenue, gross margin and net income. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, we completed the acquisition of ICOS Vision Systems Corporation for net cash consideration of approximately $488.8 million primarily to expand our product portfolio in semiconductor packaging inspection and to gain entry into the solar cell inspection and HBLED inspection markets. Revenues and Gross Margin Year ended June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 FY10 vs. FY09 FY09 vs. FY08 Revenues: Product $ 1,324,270 $ 1,062,126 $ 2,030,224 $ 262,144 25 % $ (968,098 ) 47 % Service 496,490 458,090 491,492 38,400 8 % (33,402 ) 7 % Total revenues $ 1,820,760 $ 1,520,216 $ 2,521,716 $ 300,544 $ (1,001,500 ) Costs of revenues $ 815,662 $ 864,824 $ 1,134,856 $ (49,162 ) 6 % $ (270,032 ) 24 % Stock based compensation expense included in costs of revenues $ 14,275 $ 19,932 $ 22,041 $ (5,657 ) 28 % $ (2,109 ) 10 % Gross margin percentage 55 % 43 % 55 % 12 % 12 % Product revenues Product revenues increased in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as a result of increased capital spending by customers for both technology and capacity related investments of process control equipment, in response to strong semiconductor electronics end market demand. 43 Table of Contents New semiconductor manufacturing products targeted towards the most advanced production nodes were significant contributors to this increase in revenue, as customers added advanced production capacity, particularly those serving the foundry market. These factors contributed to an increase in the number of tools that we sold during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The increase in tool sales over our prior fiscal year was primarily driven by an increase in our sales of defect inspection equipment. Product revenues decreased in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as a result of a reduction in capital spending by our customers due to the weakness in the semiconductor industry and a deteriorating macroeconomic environment, which resulted in customers delaying their purchases and installations of our products. The decline in revenues reflected the slowdown in worldwide demand for semiconductor equipment, as semiconductor manufacturers reduced capital spending and conserved cash in response to their business environment, even as their need for more precise diagnostics capabilities increased with technological advances. The weak macroeconomic and credit environments during the year adversely impacted the profitability of our customers, their access to capital and their capital spending. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, two customers, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Intel Corporation, each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, two customers, Intel Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., accounted for more than 10% of total revenues. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, no customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues. As of June 30, 2010, two customers, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited, each accounted for more than 10% of net accounts receivable. As of June 30, 2009, two customers, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Intel Corporation, each accounted for more than 10% of net accounts receivable. Service revenues Service revenues are generated from maintenance contracts, as well as time and material billable service calls made to our customers after the expiration of the warranty period. The amount of service revenues generated is generally a function of the number of post warranty systems installed at our customers sites and the utilization of those systems. Service revenues increased in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as the increase in wafer processing activity by semiconductor manufacturing customers drove higher system utilization of our previously installed equipment. This higher utilization level led to an increase in demand for service. Service revenues decreased in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as customers idled their under utilized production equipment in response to the weakness in the semiconductor industry and the deteriorating macroeconomic environment. Revenues by region Revenues by region for the periods indicated were as follows (in thousands): Year ended June 30, 2010 2009 2008 United States $ 341,079 19 % $ 372,887 24 % $ 518,851 21 % Europe & Israel 111,497 6 % 162,665 11 % 305,350 12 % Japan 239,393 13 % 437,081 29 % 617,214 24 % Taiwan 688,089 38 % 181,411 12 % 570,904 23 % Korea 151,198 8 % 187,624 12 % 225,119 9 % Rest of Asia 289,504 16 % 178,548 12 % 284,278 11 % Total $ 1,820,760 100 % $ 1,520,216 100 % $ 2,521,716 100 % 44 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenues continue to be generated in Asia, where a substantial portion of the worlds semiconductor manufacturing capacity is located, and we expect that will continue to be the case. Gross margin Our gross margin fluctuates with revenue levels and product mix, and is affected by variations in costs related to manufacturing and servicing our products. Our gross margin percentage increased to 55% during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 from 43% during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 primarily due to demand for new high value products, significant volume efficiencies in manufacturing operations worldwide, lower inventory obsolescence, as well as a lower overall manufacturing cost structure as a result of our outsourcing and globalization initiatives. In addition, productivity improvements resulting from better utilization of field service resources contributed to the gross margin improvement. Our gross margin percentage decreased to 43% during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 from 55% during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 primarily due to lower product and service revenues, higher intangible assets amortization expense as a result of our acquisitions of ICOS and the MIE business unit, decreased manufacturing capacity utilization, and excess inventory write downs. Engineering, Research and Development (R&D) Year ended June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 FY10 vs. FY09 FY09 vs. FY08 R&D expenses $ 329,560 $ 371,463 $ 409,973 $ (41,903 ) 11 % $ (38,510 ) 9 % Stock based compensation expense included in R&D expenses $ 27,289 $ 33,127 $ 32,623 $ (5,838 ) 18 % $ 504 2 % R&D expenses as a percentage of total revenues 18 % 24 % 16 % 6 % 8 % R&D expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 decreased compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, even as we continued significant investments in product research and development. The decrease during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 was primarily attributable to cost reduction activities initiated during fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the benefits of which were fully realized in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. In addition, no in process R&D expense associated with acquisitions that we completed during that year was recorded during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, compared to $8.6 million of in process R&D expense recorded during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Furthermore, development material costs and consulting services related to R&D product development decreased compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as certain significant new products completed the product development cycle during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 and came to market in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The following are expenses that were recorded in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009: $209.6 million for employee related expenses, compared to $220.8 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, $83.8 million for engineering material costs, compared to $97.9 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, $26.5 million for outside services such as consulting, compared to $31.6 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, $15.6 million for depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of intangibles and expensed in process R&D (IPR&D), compared to $31.1 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, and $13.7 million of benefit to R&D expense from external funding, compared to $21.7 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. 45 Table of Contents R&D expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 decreased compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease is primarily attributable to reduced employee related expenses as a result of a number of cost reduction activities that we have undertaken, as well as reduced engineering material costs during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. These decreases were partially offset by additional R&D spending as a result of our acquisitions of ICOS and the MIE business unit. The following are expenses that were recorded in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008: $220.8 million for employee related expenses, compared to $226.5 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, $97.9 million for engineering material costs, compared to $112.7 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, $31.6 million for outside services such as consulting, compared to $36.8 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, $31.1 million for depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of intangibles and expensed IPR&D, compared to $47.4 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, and $21.7 million of benefit to R&D expense from external funding, compared to $20.4 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, we expensed IPR&D of $8.6 million and $22.7 million, respectively, upon the completion of the acquisitions during the applicable fiscal year in connection with acquired intellectual property for which, as of the acquisition date, technological feasibility had not been established and no future alternative uses existed. The fair value of the purchased IPR&D was determined using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows from projects to their net present value. Future cash flows were estimated, taking into account the expected life cycles of the products and the underlying technology, relevant market sizes and industry trends. We determined a discount rate for each project based on the relative risks inherent in the projects development horizon, the estimated costs of development, and the level of technological change in the project and the industry, among other factors. IPR&D was expensed upon acquisition because technological feasibility had not been achieved and no future alternative uses existed. The development of these technologies remains a risk due to the remaining efforts to achieve technological feasibility, rapidly changing customer markets, uncertain standards for new products, and significant competitive threats. The nature of the efforts to develop these technologies into commercially viable products consists primarily of planning, designing, experimenting, and testing activities necessary to determine that the technologies can meet market expectations, including functionality and technical requirements. R&D expenses include the benefit of $13.7 million, $21.7 million and $20.4 million of external funding received during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for certain strategic development programs primarily from government grants. We expect our R&D expenses to increase with increases in our business activity levels as we accelerate our investments in critical programs focusing on new technologies and enhancements to existing products. Our future operating results will depend significantly on our ability to produce products and provide services that have a competitive advantage in our marketplace. To do this, we believe that we must continue to make substantial investments in our research and development. We remain committed to product development in new and emerging technologies as we address the yield challenges our customers face at future technology nodes. 46 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Year ended June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 FY10 vs. FY09 FY09 vs. FY08 SG&A expenses $ 361,372 $ 415,126 $ 464,890 $ (53,754 ) 13 % $ (49,764 ) 11 % Stock based compensation expense included in SG&A expenses $ 44,418 $ 52,476 $ 51,806 $ (8,058 ) 15 % $ 670 1 % SG&A expenses as a percentage of total revenues 20 % 27 % 18 % 7 % 9 % SG&A expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 were lower compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 primarily due to cost reduction activities initiated during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the benefits of which were fully realized in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. In addition, $2.9 million of bad debt recovery was recorded during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, compared to $23.2 million of bad debt expense recorded during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The following are expenses that were recorded in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009: $306.7 million for employee related expenses, compared to $328.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, $2.9 million of bad debt recovery, compared to $23.2 million of bad debt expense during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, $48.7 million for depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of intangibles, compared to $59.2 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, and $16.9 million for expenses and settlements, net, related to the shareholder litigation relating to our historical stock option practices, compared to $13.9 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. SG&A expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 were lower compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 primarily due to lower expenses related to the shareholder litigation relating to our historical stock option practices and reduced employee related expenses as a result of a number of cost reduction activities that we have undertaken, which are partially offset by additional SG&A spending and higher intangible assets amortization expense as a result of our acquisitions of ICOS and the MIE business unit, additional bad debt expense and lower gain on sale of real estate assets. The following are expenses that were recorded in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008: $328.0 million for employee related expenses, compared to $378.2 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, $23.2 million for bad debt expense, compared to $0.2 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, $59.2 million for depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of intangibles, compared to $34.3 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, $13.9 million for expenses related to the shareholder litigation relating to our historical stock option practices, compared to $76.9 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, and $4.1 million in net gains recorded on the sale of real estate assets, compared to $20.1 million recorded in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Impairment of Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets For the three months ended December 31, 2009, we performed our annual evaluation of goodwill by reporting unit and concluded that there was no impairment as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, our assessment indicated that the fair value of our reporting units was substantially in excess of their estimated 47 Table of Contents carrying values, and therefore goodwill in the reporting units was not impaired. There have been no significant events or circumstances affecting the valuation of goodwill subsequent to the impairment test performed in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. For the three months ended December 31, 2008, we performed our annual evaluation of goodwill by reporting unit and concluded that, as of December 31, 2008, the carrying value of our Metrology reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value. As a result of the global economic downturn, reductions to our revenue and operating forecasts and a significant reduction in our market capitalization, we determined that the goodwill related to our Metrology reporting unit was fully impaired. As a result, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $272.1 million during the three months ended December 31, 2008. As a result of the aforementioned impairment indicators for the three months ended December 31, 2008 and in accordance with the authoritative guidance on impairment of long lived assets, we performed an analysis utilizing discounted future cash flows related to the long lived and intangible assets to determine the fair value of each of our asset groups. Based on the assessment, we recorded an intangible asset impairment charge of $162.8 million related to existing technology, patents, customer relationships and trademarks, as well as an additional $2.0 million impairment charge related to long lived assets during the three months ended December 31, 2008. Restructuring Charges In March 2009, we announced a plan to further reduce our global workforce by approximately 10%, which followed our announcement in November 2008 of a global workforce reduction of approximately 15%. We have undertaken a number of cost reduction activities, including these workforce reductions, in an effort to lower our quarterly operating expense run rate. The program in the United States is accounted for in accordance with the authoritative guidance related to compensation for nonretirement post employment benefits, whereas the programs in the international locations are accounted for in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, we recorded a $4.5 million net restructuring charge, of which $2.2 million was recorded to costs of revenues, $0.4 million to engineering, research and development expense and $1.9 million to selling, general and administrative expense. These charges represent the estimated minimum liability associated with expected termination benefits to be provided to employees. The following table shows the activity primarily related to severance and benefits expense for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009: (In thousands) Year endedJune 30, 2010 Year endedJune 30, 2009 Beginning Balance $ 8,086 $ 1,333 Restructuring costs 5,580 40,596 Adjustments (1,045 ) (1,912 ) Cash payments (12,174 ) (31,931 ) Ending Balance $ 447 $ 8,086 Substantially all of the remaining accrued restructuring balance as of June 30, 2010 related to our workforce reductions is expected to be paid out by the end of calendar year 2010. Interest Income and Other, Net Year ended June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 Interest income and other, net $ 31,532 $ 30,749 $ 71,625 Interest expense $ 54,517 $ 55,339 $ 10,767 Interest income and other, net as a percentage of total revenues 2 % 2 % 3 % Interest expense as a percentage of total revenues 3 % 4 % 0 % 48 Table of Contents Interest income and other, net is comprised primarily of interest income earned on our investment and cash portfolio, realized gains or losses on sales of marketable securities, as well as gains or losses recorded upon settlement of certain foreign currency contracts. Interest income and other, net during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 remained flat. The decrease in interest income and other, net during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was primarily the result of lower interest income from our investment and cash portfolio due to lower market interest rates, as well as lower foreign currency transaction gain. Interest expense in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 remained flat. The increase in interest expense in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was primarily due to additional interest expense as a result of the issuance of $750 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Provision for Income Taxes The following table provides details of income taxes: (In thousands) Year ended June 30, 2010 2009 2008 Income (loss) before income taxes $ 291,181 $ (602,531 ) $ 560,234 Provision for (benefit from) taxes 78,881 (79,163 ) 201,151 Effective tax rate 27.1 % 13.1 % 35.9 % Tax expense has decreased during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 due to a year over year increase in the proportion of our income earned outside the United States in countries with lower income tax rates. We incurred $12.0 million in additional tax expense during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 due to shortfalls from employee stock activity. Windfall tax benefits arise when a companys tax deduction for employee stock activity exceeds book compensation for the same activity. A shortfall arises when the tax deduction is less than book compensation. Windfalls are recorded as increases to capital in excess of par value. Shortfalls are recorded as decreases to capital in excess of par value to the extent that cumulative windfalls exceed cumulative shortfalls. Shortfalls in excess of cumulative windfalls are recorded as provision for income taxes. We incurred $38.1 million in additional tax expense during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 due to a reduction in non current deferred tax assets as a result of the adoption of California budget legislation, signed on February 20, 2009, which will allow a taxpayer to elect an alternative method to attribute taxable income to California for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2011. We expect to make the election to use the alternative method to attribute taxable income to California for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. The expense included a reduction in non current deferred tax assets of $9.7 million and a $28.4 million valuation allowance on excess California research and development credits that we believe will not be utilized due to the effect of the lower apportionment rate. Tax expense was also increased during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 due to a goodwill impairment charge of $277.0 million related to certain business units, which was non deductible for tax purposes. We incurred $52.9 million in additional tax expense during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 due to the implementation of our global manufacturing strategy. The incremental U.S. tax expense was a result of an inter company licensing agreement related to the migration of manufacturing to Singapore. The additional tax expense was partially offset by a tax benefit of $14.4 million during the year ended June 30, 2008 that we realized due to the revision of prior year cumulative undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries considered to be permanently reinvested outside the United States. 49 Table of Contents Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of our pre tax income, non deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions, research and development credits as a percentage of aggregate pre tax income, the domestic manufacturing deduction, non taxable or non deductible increases or decreases in the assets held within our Executive Deferred Savings Plan, the tax effects of employee stock activity and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. For the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011, cumulative shortfalls from employee stock activity may continue to exceed cumulative windfalls from employee stock activity, and we may therefore report higher provision for income taxes as a result. Because we cannot determine all of the factors that will enter into our income tax expense computation for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, we cannot currently estimate this impact on our tax rate for the next fiscal year. In the normal course of business, we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income or other taxes against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We are under United States federal income tax examination for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 through June 30, 2009, which represents all years for which tax returns have been filed and the statute of limitations has not expired. We are subject to state income tax examinations for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. We are also subject to examinations in major foreign jurisdictions, including Japan, Israel and Singapore, for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 and are currently under tax examinations in various other foreign tax jurisdictions. It is possible that certain examinations may be concluded in the next twelve months. We believe it is possible that we may recognize up to $3.6 million of our existing unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months as a result of the lapse of statutes of limitations, and the resolution of agreements with various foreign tax authorities. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 Cash and cash equivalents $ 529,918 $ 524,967 $ 1,128,106 Marketable securities 1,004,126 804,917 451,277 Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 1,534,044 $ 1,329,884 $ 1,579,383 Percentage of total assets 39 % 37 % 33 % Year ended June 30, (In thousands) 2010 2009 2008 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 447,800 $ 195,684 $ 662,611 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (227,964 ) (484,900 ) 58,063 Net cash used in financing activities (216,331 ) (299,117 ) (318,938 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,446 (14,806 ) 3,859 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 4,951 $ (603,139 ) $ 405,595 At June 30, 2010, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $1.5 billion, an increase of $204 million from June 30, 2009. We have historically financed our operations through cash generated from operations. Cash provided by operating activities was $448 million and $196 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 50 Table of Contents Cash provided by operating activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 increased compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 from $196 million to $448 million primarily as a result of the following key factors: Lower operating expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, reduced by approximately $165 million as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, resulting primarily from our cost cutting measures initiated during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the benefits of which were fully realized in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, No material cash payments in the settlement of litigation during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, as compared to a cash payment of $65 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 in connection with the settlement of the shareholder class action litigation related to our historical stock option practices, Increase in customer collections by approximately $58 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, and Increase in taxes paid of approximately $26 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Cash used in investing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 declined compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 from $485 million to $228 million primarily as a result of the following key factors: Decrease of $140 million in acquisitions, primarily driven by the acquisition of the MIE business unit during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, Decrease in the use of cash for purchases of available for sale and trading securities, net of sales and maturities, of approximately $141 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, partially offset by Decrease in cash collections by approximately $16 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 from sale of assets, as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Cash used in financing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 declined compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 from $299 million to $216 million as a result of lower common stock repurchases. We repurchased $136 million of our common stock during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, as compared to $227 million in stock repurchases during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Cash provided by operating activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 decreased compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 from $663 million to $196 million primarily as a result of the following key factors: Lower customer collections as a result of a decline in revenue during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, reduced by approximately $862 million as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, Decrease of $78 million in interest income during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, primarily due to lower market interest rates, Cash payments of $65 million in the settlement of litigation in connection with the settlement of the shareholder class action litigation related to our historical stock option practices during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, as compared to no such payments during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, Interest payments of $52 million on the $750 million of our outstanding senior notes during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, as compared to no such payments during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, partially offset by Reduced operating expenses by approximately $346 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, primarily from our cost reduction measures, and Lower tax payments of $238 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. 51 Table of Contents Cash flow from investing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 declined compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 from $58 million of cash provided by investing activities to $485 million of cash used in investing activities, primarily as a result of the following key factors: Increase in the use of cash for purchases of available for sale and trading securities, net of sales and maturities, of approximately $884 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, Decrease in cash collections by approximately $47 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 from sale of real estate assets, as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, partially offset by Decrease of $353 million in acquisition expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, primarily driven by our acquisition of ICOS for net cash consideration of approximately $489 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 and our acquisition of the MIE business unit of Vistec Semiconductor Systems for net cash consideration of approximately $141 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, and Lower capital expenditures during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 by approximately $35 million, as compared to the fiscal year ended June 20, 2008. Cash used in financing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 declined compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 from $319 million to $299 million as a result of lower common stock repurchases, largely offset by cash proceeds from the issuance of long term debt. We repurchased $227 million of our common stock during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, as compared to $1.1 billion in stock repurchases during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, we announced plans to reduce our global workforce by approximately 15% and 10% in November 2008 and March 2009, respectively. We recorded $4.5 million and $38.7 million in net restructuring charges during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of June 30, 2010, we have paid out approximately $44.1 million in restructuring payments. The remaining balance will be paid out by the end of calendar year 2010. The total amount of dividends paid during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $102.4 million, $102.1 million and $108.5 million, respectively. The shares repurchased under our share repurchase program have decreased our basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding. The decrease was partially offset by additional shares issued upon the exercise of employee stock options and in connection with stock purchases under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. In October 2008, we suspended our stock repurchase program, and we subsequently restarted the program in February 2010. Contractual Obligations The following is a schedule summarizing our significant obligations to make future payments under contractual obligations as of June 30, 2010: Fiscal year ending June 30, (In thousands) Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Other Long term debt obligations(1) $ 750,000 $ $ $ $ $ $ 750,000 Interest expense associated with long term debt obligations 405,375 51,750 51,750 51,750 51,750 51,750 146,625 Purchase commitments 338,097 334,050 2,700 603 491 253 Non current income tax payable(2) 58,982 58,982 Operating leases 28,505 8,779 5,848 3,970 2,876 1,849 5,183 Pension obligations 24,240 1,735 1,572 1,960 1,927 2,541 14,505 Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,605,199 $ 396,314 $ 61,870 $ 58,283 $ 57,044 $ 56,393 $ 916,313 $ 58,982 52 Table of Contents (1) In April 2008, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due in 2018. (2) Represents the non current tax payable obligation. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. We have agreements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. In addition, from time to time we will discount, without recourse, letters of credit (LCs) received from customers in payment for goods. The following table shows total receivables sold under factoring agreements and proceeds from sales of LCs and related discounting fees paid during the years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Year ended June 30, (In thousands) 2010 2009 2008 Receivables sold under factoring agreements $ 107,666 $ 262,998 $ 290,250 Proceeds from sales of LCs $ 37,226 $ 27,799 $ 39,379 Discounting fees paid on sales of LCs(1) $ 189 $ 145 $ 232 (1) Discounting fees were equivalent to interest expense and were recorded in interest income and other, net. We maintain guarantee arrangements of $16.7 million in various locations to fund customs guarantees for VAT and LC needs of our subsidiaries in Europe and Asia. Approximately $14.4 million was outstanding under these arrangements as of June 30, 2010. We maintain certain purchase commitments with our suppliers to ensure a smooth and continuous supply chain for key components. Our liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecast time horizon can vary among different suppliers. We estimate our purchase commitments as of June 30, 2010 to be approximately $338.1 million, most of which is due within the next 12 months. Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may change in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties. We provide standard warranty coverage on our systems for 40 hours per week for twelve months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair the systems during the warranty period. We account for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to costs of revenues when revenue is recognized. The estimated warranty cost is based on historical product performance and field expenses. The actual product performance and or field expense profiles may differ, and in those cases we adjust our warranty reserves accordingly. Non standard warranty coverage generally includes services incremental to the standard 40 hour per week coverage for twelve months. See Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed description. Working capital increased to $2.1 billion as of June 30, 2010, compared to $1.9 billion as of June 30, 2009. This increase is primarily due to cash generated from operations, offset by cash payments for the share repurchase program, cash payments of dividends to stockholders, and purchases of fixed assets. As of June 30, 2010, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of the business, and others of which relate to the uncertainties of global economies and the semiconductor and the semiconductor equipment industries. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements for at least the next twelve months. 53 Table of Contents Our investment portfolio included auction rate securities, which are investments with contractual maturities generally between 20 to 30 years. They are typically issued in the form of municipal bonds, preferred stock, a pool of student loans, or collateralized debt obligations whose interest rates are reset. The reset typically occurs every seven to forty nine days, through an auction process. At the end of each reset period, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. The auction rate securities held by us are backed by student loans and are collateralized, insured and guaranteed by the United States Federal Department of Education. In addition, all auction rate securities held by us are rated by the major independent rating agencies as either AAA or Aaa. In February 2008, auctions failed for approximately $48.2 million in par value of municipal auction rate securities that we held because sell orders exceeded buy orders. These failures are not believed to be a credit issue, but rather caused by a lack of liquidity. The funds associated with these failed auctions may not be accessible until the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the security matures. By letter dated August 8, 2008, we received notification from UBS AG (UBS), in connection with a settlement entered into between UBS and certain regulatory agencies, offering to repurchase all of our auction rate security holdings at par value. We formally accepted the settlement offer and entered into a repurchase agreement (Agreement) with UBS on November 11, 2008 (Acceptance Date). By accepting the Agreement, we (1) received the right (Put Option) to sell our auction rate securities at par value to UBS between June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2012 and (2) gave UBS the right to purchase the auction rate securities from us any time after the Acceptance Date as long as we receive the par value. As of June 30, 2009, we had $40.7 million par value of auction rate securities. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, $23.9 million of the auction rate securities were called at par by the issuers. The Put Option was exercised on June 30, 2010 to sell the remaining auction rate securities of $16.8 million at par value and was subsequently settled. As of June 30, 2010, those remaining auction rate securities that had been sold but had not yet been settled as of such date are included in marketable securities and valued at par. We accounted for the Put Option as a freestanding financial instrument, and during the three months ended December 31, 2008, we made an election to transfer these auction rate securities from available for sale to trading securities. In April 2008, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 6.90% senior, unsecured long term debt due in 2018 with an effective interest rate of 7.00%. The discount on the debt amounted to $5.4 million and is being amortized over the life of the debt using the straight line method as opposed to the interest method due to immateriality. Interest is payable semi annually on November 1 and May 1. The debt indenture includes covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on our facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to significant allowances under which certain sale and leaseback transactions are not restricted. We are in compliance with all of our covenants as at June 30, 2010. Our credit ratings and outlooks as of July 22, 2010 are summarized below. Rating Agency Rating Outlook Fitch BBB Stable Moodys Baa1 Stable Standard & Poors BBB Negative Factors that can affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the economic environment, conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries, our financial position, and changes in our business strategy. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Under our foreign currency risk management strategy, we utilize derivative instruments to protect our interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. This financial exposure is monitored and managed as an integral part of our overall risk management 54 Table of Contents program, which focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. We continue our policy of hedging our current and forecasted foreign currency exposures with hedging instruments having tenors of up to 18 months (see Note 16, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed description). Our outstanding hedge contracts, with maximum maturity of 18 months, were as follows: As of June 30, (In thousands) 2010 2009 Cash flow hedge contracts Purchase $ 15,835 $ Sell (32,853 ) (36,938 ) Other foreign currency hedge contracts Purchase 82,535 73,914 Sell (104,414 ) (106,080 ) Net $ (38,897 ) $ (69,104 ) 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. To mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency hedges. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of June 30, 2010. Actual results may differ materially. As of June 30, 2010, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $1.0 billion, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents. These securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. If market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of June 30, 2010, the fair value of the portfolio would decline by $1.3 million. As of June 30, 2010, we had net forward and option contracts to sell $38.9 million in foreign currency in order to hedge certain currency exposures (detail of these contracts and hedging activities is included in Note 16, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities to the Consolidated Financial Statements). If we had entered into these contracts on June 30, 2010, the U.S. dollar equivalent would have been $44.4 million. A 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $21.5 million. However, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. Accordingly, we believe that, as a result of the hedging of certain of our foreign currency exposure, changes in most relevant foreign currency exchange rates should have no material impact on our income or cash flows. In April 2008, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 6.90% senior unsecured notes due in 2018. The fair market value of long term fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. At June 30, 2010, the book value and the fair value of our fixed rate debt were $745.7 million and $834.4 million, respectively. At June 30, 2009, the book value and the fair value of our fixed rate debt were $745.2 million and $702.0 million, respectively. 56 Table of Contents 
 
