FILE:IPG/IPG-8K-20050201163511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
On February 1, 2005, The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a schedule (the "Schedule"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein, to correct certain information related to its analysis of adjusted operating margins for the third quarter 2004 and year-to-date through September 30, 2004. This information appeared in (i) its press release dated November 3, 2004, announcing the Company's third quarter 2004 results (the "Press Release") and (ii) its related investor presentation posted on its website in connection with its third quarter results conference call (the "Investor Presentation"). The corrections reflected in the Schedule do not affect the Company's reported results.
The Schedule reflects the impact of certain factors on the analysis of the Company's adjusted operating margins and further corrects the presentation of these analytical adjustments as they appear in the following:
The Company believes it is appropriate to provide investors with an understanding of the impact of these items by identifying only the individual impact of each such factor for each of the applicable periods.
The affected tables and reconciliation schedules are non-GAAP presentations and analytical in nature. The Schedule also includes an unchanged reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures therein to the Company's corresponding GAAP numbers.
Item 9.01
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
.

The year-over-year quarter comparison was negatively impacted by the following:
The year-over-year year-to-date comparison was negatively impacted by the following:
* References to operating income refer to operating income as reported excluding restructuring program charges, long-lived asset impairments, and the Motorsports contract termination charges.
In comparing performance for 2004 with 2003, the company has excluded restructuring program charges, long-lived asset impairments, and the Motorsports contract termination charges because management believes the resulting comparison better reflects the company's ongoing operations. By excluding these charges, we can focus our comparison on the trends that have a continuing effect on the company's operations. The company expects to incur further charges relating to its restructuring program in 2004 and may incur future long-lived asset impairments and Motorsports contract termination charges as well.
 


