FILE:IPG/IPG-8K-20061117142452.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
_______________________
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): November 14, 2006
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (the "Company") entered into the following agreements:
The disclosure under Item 2.03 of this report with respect to the entry into these agreements is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
On November 15, 2006, the Company retired $400 million of its 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (the "Old Notes") in connection with the exchange described in Item 2.03 of this report.
 
On November 15, 2006, the Company issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of the New Notes under the Indenture.
The New Notes were exchanged for the same aggregate principal amount of the Company's Old Notes with certain qualified institutional buyers as defined under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The exchange was exempt from registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
For a comparison of the terms of the New Notes with the Old Notes, please refer to the Company's press release announcing the completion of the exchange, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
The New Notes are convertible into common stock of the Company at a conversion price of $12.42 per share, subject to adjustment in specified circumstances including any payment of cash dividends on the Company's common stock. The New Notes are convertible at any time if the average price of the Company's common stock for 20 trading days immediately preceding the conversion date is greater than or equal to a specified percentage of the conversion price, beginning at 118.5% in 2006 and declining 0.5% each year until it reaches 110% at maturity. They are also convertible, regardless of the price of the Company's common stock, if: (i) the Company calls the New Notes for redemption; (ii) the Company makes specified distributions to shareholders; (iii) the Company becomes a party to a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange pursuant to which its common stock would be converted into cash or property (other than securities); or (iv) the credit ratings assigned to the New Notes by any two of Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings are lower than Ba2, BB and BB, respectively, or the New Notes are no longer rated by at least two of these ratings services. Because of the Company's current credit ratings, the New Notes are currently convertible. The New Notes are also convertible, whether or not the above conditions are met, from February 15 to March 15, 2023.
 
 
 
 
 
Holders of the New Notes may require the Company to repurchase the New Notes on March 15, 2012 for cash and on March 15, 2015 and March 15, 2018, for cash or Company common stock or a combination of cash and common stock, at the Company's election. Additionally, investors may require the Company to repurchase the New Notes in the event of certain change of control events that occur prior to March 15, 2012, for cash or Company common stock or a combination of cash and common stock, at the Company's election. At its option, the Company may redeem the New Notes on or after March 15, 2012 for cash. The redemption price in each of these instances will be 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. The New Notes also provide for an additional "make-whole" adjustment to the conversion rate in the event of a change of control meeting specified conditions.
The exchange is being treated as an extinguishment of the old notes and an issuance of new debt for accounting purposes. The Company expects that the new debt will be reflected on the Company's balance sheet at its fair value, or approximately $477 million. The Company expects to record a non-cash charge to earnings in the fourth quarter of 2006 for the difference between the fair value of the new debt and the carrying value of the old debt, or approximately $77 million. The difference between fair value and carrying value on the balance sheet will be amortized through the first put date in 2012, resulting in a reduction of reported interest expense in future periods.
Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed to file a shelf registration statement under the Securities Act for the resale of the New Notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion of the New Notes.
 
On November 15, 2006, the Company issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of the New Notes in exchange for the same aggregate principal amount of the Old Notes in a private offering in reliance on Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The disclosure in Item 2.03 of this report is incorporated by reference in this Item 3.02.
 
On November 14, 2006, the Company issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein, announcing the exchange. On November 16, 2006, the Company issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein, announcing the completion of the exchange.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
and
THE BANK OF NEW YORK
Trustee
__________________________
Senior Debt Indenture
Dated as of November
 
15, 2006
____________________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
PAGE
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
Reconciliation and tie between Trust Indenture Act of 1939
and Indenture, dated as of November 15, 2006
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of November 15, 2006, between THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "
Company"
), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee (herein called the "
Trustee"
).
RECITALS OF THE COMPANY
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its senior unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "
Securities"
), to be issued in one or more series as in this Indenture provided.
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities, as follows:
1
ARTICLE
DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION
SECTION 1.01.      
Definitions
. For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
(1)
          
the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(2)
          
all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, or defined by Commission rule and not otherwise defined herein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(3)
          
all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP;
(4)
          
the word "
including"
(and with correlative meaning "
include"
) means including, without limiting the generality of, any description preceding such term; and
(5)
          
the words "
herein," "
hereof"
and
"hereunder
" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
"Act,"
when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 1.04.
 
"Affiliate"
of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "
control"
when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "
controlling"
and "
controlled"
have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
"Attributable Debt"
when used in connection with a Sale and Lease-Back Transaction means, at the time of determination, the lesser of (a) the fair market value of the property involved (as determined in good faith by the Company's Board of Directors), (b) the present value of the total net amount of rent required to be paid under the lease during the remaining term thereof (including any renewal term or period for which such lease has been extended) computed by discounting from the respective due dates to such date such total net amount of rent at the rate of interest set forth or implicit in the terms of such lease or (c) if the obligation with respect to the Sale and Lease-Back Transaction constitutes an obligation that is required to be classified and accounted for as a capitalized lease for financial reporting purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the amount equal to the capitalized amount of such obligation determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and included in the financial statements of the lessee. For purposes of the foregoing definition, rent shall not include amounts required to be paid by the lessee, whether or not designated as rent or additional rent, on account of or contingent upon maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates and similar charges. In the case of any lease that is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such net amount shall be the lesser of the net amount determined assuming termination upon the first date such lease may be terminated (in which case the net amount shall also include the amount of the penalty, but no rent shall be considered as required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated) or the net amount determined assuming no such termination.
"Authenticating Agent"
means any Person authorized by the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities.
"Bankruptcy Law"
means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
"Board of Directors"
means the board of directors of the Company;
provided
,
however
, that when the context refers to actions or resolutions of the Board of Directors, then the term "
Board of Directors"
shall also mean any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Company authorized to act with respect to any particular matter to exercise the power of the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board Resolution"
means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
 
 
"Business Day,"
when used with respect to any Place of Payment or any other particular location referred to in this Indenture or in the Securities of any series, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or regulation to close.
"Capital Stock"
means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participations, warrants, rights, options or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock or any other equity interest of such Person, including each class of common stock and preferred stock.
"Commission"
means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
"Company"
means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor corporation shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor corporation.
"Company Request"
or "
Company Order"
means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any two Officers, at least one of whom must be its Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Chief Financial Officer, its Chief Accounting Officer, its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer or its Controller, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Consolidated Net Worth"
means, at any date of determination, (a) total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries (including, without limitation, all items that are treated as intangible in accordance with GAAP) at such date less (b) total liabilities of the Company and its Subsidiaries (including, without limitation, all deferred taxes) at such date, in each case determined on a consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP for such period;
provided
,
however
, that the term "Consolidated Net Worth" shall not give effect to any cumulative translation adjustments (whether positive or negative) at any such date.
"Corporate Trust Office"
means the office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at The Bank of New York, 101 Barclay Street, 21 West, New York, NY 10286; Attn: Corporate Trust Trustee Administration.
"covenant defeasance"
has the meaning specified in Section 13.03.
"currency unit"
or "
currency units"
shall mean any composite currency.
"Custodian"
means any receiver, custodian, trustee, assignee, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
 
 
 
"Default"
means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
"Defaulted Interest"
has the meaning specified in Section 3.07.
"defeasance"
has the meaning specified in Section 13.02.
"Depositary"
means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more global Securities, the Person designated as Depositary by the Company pursuant to Section 3.01, which must be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Depositary hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Depositary" shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Securities of that series.
"dollars"
and "
$"
means lawful money of the United States of America.
"Event of Default"
has the meaning specified in Section 5.01.
"Exchange Act"
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
"GAAP"
means such accounting principles as are generally accepted in the United States of America on the date or time of any computation required hereunder.
"Holder"
or
"Securityholder"
means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
"Indebtedness"
means, with respect to any Person (without duplication for indebtedness or other obligations of such Person), any indebtedness of such Person for money borrowed, whether incurred, assumed or guaranteed, and including obligations under capitalized leases.
"Indenture"
means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated hereunder.
"interest,"
when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
"Interest Payment Date,"
when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
"Judgment Currency"
has the meaning specified in Section 1.15.
"lien"
and "
liens"
have the meaning specified in Section 10.09.
 
 
 
"Maturity,"
when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
"New York Banking Day"
has the meaning specified in Section 1.15.
"NYSE"
means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
"Officer"
means the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, any Assistant Controller, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company.
"Officers' Certificate"
means a certificate signed by any two Officers of the Company, at least one of whom must be its Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Chief Financial Officer, its Chief Accounting Officer, its Treasurer or its Controller, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Opinion of Counsel"
means a written opinion of counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel for the Company, and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
"Original Issue Discount Security"
means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02.
"Outstanding,"
when used with respect to Securities or Securities of any series, means, as of the date of determination, all such Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
(i)
           
Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(ii)
          
Securities, or portions thereof, for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities;
provided
that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
(iii)
         
Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 3.06 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that
 
 
 
such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company; and
(iv)
         
Securities which have been defeased pursuant to Section 13.02;
provided
,
however
, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, or whether sufficient funds are available for redemption or for any other purpose and for the purpose of making the calculations required by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act, (a) the principal amount of any Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be that portion of the principal amount thereof that could be declared to be due and payable upon the occurrence of an Event of Default and the continuation thereof pursuant to the terms of such Original Issue Discount Security as of the date of such determination, (b) the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more foreign currencies or currency units shall be the dollar equivalent, determined in the manner provided as contemplated by Section 3.01 on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the dollar equivalent on the date of original issuance of such Security of the amount determined as provided in (a) above) of such Security, and (c) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
"Paying Agent"
means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company. The Company may act as Paying Agent with respect to any Securities issued hereunder.
"Permitted Liens"
means (a) liens (including liens arising from sale and lease-back transactions) on property or assets acquired or held by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary incurred to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price thereof or to secure any Indebtedness incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 180 days after the acquisition for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof, or liens (including liens arising from sale and lease-back transactions) on property or assets existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, other than liens created in contemplation of such acquisition that were not incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof,
provided
,
however
, that the lien does not extend to or cover any property or assets of any character other than the property or assets being acquired; (b) liens on property or assets of a Person, other than the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, existing at the time of acquisition of such
 
 
 
property and assets by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary,
provided
, that the liens were not created in contemplation of such acquisition and do not extend to any property or assets of any character other than the property or assets being acquired; (c) liens affecting property or assets of a person, other than the Company or any Restricted Subsidiaries, existing at the time the person merges into or consolidates with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or becomes a Restricted Subsidiary or at the time of sale, lease or other disposition of the property or assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Restricted subsidiary,
provided
,
however
, that the liens were not created in contemplation of the merger, consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any property or assets other than those of the person so merged into or consolidated with, or acquired by, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary; (d) liens securing Indebtedness owing by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the Company or to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; (e) liens existing on the date of initial issuance of the Securities of such series; (f) liens in favor of the United States of America or any State, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments; (g) liens on any property to secure all or part of the cost of alteration, repair or improvement thereon or Indebtedness incurred to provide funds for such purpose in a principal amount not exceeding the cost of such improvements or construction; (h) purchase money liens on personal property; (i) liens created in connection with capitalized lease obligations, but only to the extent that such liens encumber property financed by such capital lease obligation and the principal component of such capitalized lease obligation is not increased; (j) liens on property arising in connection with a securities repurchase transaction; (k) liens (including judgment liens) arising in connection with legal proceedings, taxes, fees, assessments or other governmental charges, so long as such proceedings, taxes, fees, assessments or other governmental charges are being contested in good faith and, in the case of judgment liens, execution thereon is stayed and for which any reserves required in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles have been established; (l) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', landlords', materialmens', repairmens' or other similar liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 90 days or are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued,
provided
,
however
, that (i) any proceedings commenced for the enforcement of such liens shall have been stayed or suspended within 30 days of the commencement thereof and (ii) provision for the payment of such liens has been made on the books of the Company to the extent required by generally accepted accounting principles; (m) easements, rights-of-way, zoning restrictions and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; (n) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers' compensation laws or other similar legislation (other than in respect of employee benefit plans subject to the Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974, as amended) or to secure public or statutory obligations; (o) liens securing the performance of, or payment in respect of, bids, tenders, government contracts (other than for the
 
 
 
repayment of borrowed money), surety and appeal bonds and other obligations of a similar nature incurred in the ordinary course of business; (p) any interest or title of a lessor or sublessor and any restriction or encumbrance to which the interest or title of such lessor or sublessor may be subject that is incurred in the ordinary course of business; and (q) any extension, renewal, refinancing or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (a) to (q), inclusive;
provided
,
however
, that any lien permitted by any of the foregoing clauses (a) through (q) shall not extend to or cover any property of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, other than the property specified in such clauses and improvements thereto.
"Person"
means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, limited liability company, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
"Place of Payment,"
when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 3.01.
"Predecessor Security"
of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 3.06 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
"Redemption Date,"
when used with respect to any Security of any series to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
"Redemption Price,"
when used with respect to any Security of any series to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
"Registered Security"
means any Security issued hereunder and registered in the Security Register.
"Regular Record Date"
for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 3.01.
"Required Currency"
has the meaning specified in Section 1.15.
"Responsible Officer,"
shall mean, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the
 
 
 
particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
"Restricted Subsidiary"
means any Subsidiary, including its Subsidiaries, which meets any of the following conditions: (a) the Company's and its other Subsidiaries' investments in and advances to the Subsidiary exceed ten percent of the total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries consolidated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year (for a proposed business combination to be accounted for as a pooling of interests, this condition is also met when the number of shares of common stock exchanged or to be exchanged by the Company exceeds ten percent of the total number of shares of its common stock outstanding at the date the combination is initiated); or (b) the Company's and its other Subsidiaries' proportionate share of the total assets (after intercompany eliminations) of the Subsidiary exceeds ten percent of the total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries consolidated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year; or (c) the Company's and its other Subsidiaries' equity in the income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of the Subsidiary exceeds ten percent of such income of the Company and its subsidiaries consolidated for the most recently completed fiscal year.
"Sale and Lease-Back Transaction"
means any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of any assets, which assets have been or are to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to such Person, other than (a) any such transaction involving a lease for a term of not more than three years, (b) any such transaction between the Company and a Restricted Subsidiary or between Restricted Subsidiaries, or (c) any such transaction executed by the time of or within one year after the latest of the acquisition, the completion of construction or improvement or the commencement of commercial operation of such assets.
"Securities"
has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
"Security Register"
and "
Security Registrar"
have the respective meanings specified in Section 3.05.
"Special Record Date"
for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.07.
"Stated Maturity,"
when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
"Subsidiary"
means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited or unlimited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than fifty percent of:
 
 
 
(a)
          
the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time shares of capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency);
(b)
          
the interest in the capital or profits of such limited or unlimited liability company, partnership or joint venture; or
(c)
          
the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time, directly or indirectly, owned by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Person's other Subsidiaries.
"Trustee"
means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
"Trust Indenture Act"
means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as in force at the date as of which this Indenture was executed;
provided
,
however
, that in the event that such Act is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
"U.S. Government Obligations"
means securities which are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America the timely payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America which, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof or otherwise subject to prepayment, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a New York Clearing House bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation, or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt,
provided
that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount held by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
"Vice President,"
when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president."
SECTION 1.02.
      
Compliance Certificates and Opinions
. Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that
 
 
 
all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
(a)
          
a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(b)
          
a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(c)
          
a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(d)
          
a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
SECTION 1.03.
      
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee
. In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Any certificate or opinion of an Officer may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such Officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an Officer or Officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Any certificate, statement or opinion of an Officer of the Company or of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to accounting matters, upon a certificate or opinion of or representations by an accountant or firm of accountants in the employ of the Company, unless such Officer or counsel, as the case may be, knows, or in the exercise of
 
 
 
reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the accounting matters upon which his or her certificate, statement or opinion is based are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
SECTION 1.04.
      
Acts of Holders
. (a)  Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agents duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "
Act"
of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 6.01) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
(b)
          
The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
(c)
          
The ownership of Registered Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
(d)
          
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
(e)
          
If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so,
provided
that the Company may not set a record date for, and the provisions of this
 
 
 
paragraph shall not apply with respect to, the giving or making of any notice, declaration, request or direction referred to in the immediately following paragraph. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date;
provided
that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date.
(f)
           
The Trustee shall set a record date, which shall not be more than 15 days prior to the date of commencement of solicitation of such action contemplated by this section 1.04(f), for the purpose of determining the Holders of Securities of any series entitled to join in the giving or making of (i) any Notice of Default, (ii) any declaration of acceleration referred to in Section 5.02, (iii) any direction referred to in Section 5.12, (iv) any request to institute proceedings referred to in Section 5.07(2), or (v) any waiver of past defaults pursuant to Section 5.13, in each case with respect to Securities of such series. If such a record date is fixed pursuant to this paragraph, the relevant action may be taken or given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be holders of Securities of a series for the purpose of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities of such series have authorized or agreed or consented to such action, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities of such series shall be computed as of such record date;
provided
that no such action by Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Trustee from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be canceled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee, at the Company's expense, shall cause notice of such record date and the proposed action by Holders to be given to the Company in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 1.06.
SECTION 1.05.
      
Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company
. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
(a)
          
the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at
 
 
 
The Bank of New York, 101 Barclay Street, 21 Floor West, New York, New York 10286, Attention: Corporate Trust Trustee Administration, or
st
(b)
          
the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 1114 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, Attention: Secretary, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
SECTION 1.06.
      
Notice to Holders; Waiver
. Where this Indenture or any Security provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be deemed sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein or in such Security expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first- class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders or the validity of the proceedings to which such notice relates.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication.
Where this Indenture or any Security provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
SECTION 1.07.
      
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
. If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included or deemed included in this Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, such provision of the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or shall be excluded, as the case may be.
SECTION 1.08.
      
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
. The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
 
 
 
SECTION 1.09.
      
Successors and Assigns
. All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 1.10.
      
Separability Clause
. In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 1.11.
      
Benefits of Indenture
. Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
SECTION 1.12.
      
Governing Law
. This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws (other than the choice of law provisions) of the State of New York.
SECTION 1.13.
      
Legal Holidays
. In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, sinking fund payment date, Stated Maturity or Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities other than a provision in the Securities of any series which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day or on such other day as may be set out in the Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 3.01 at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, sinking fund payment date, Stated Maturity or Maturity, as the case may be,
provided
that no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, sinking fund payment date, Stated Maturity or Maturity, as the case may be, if payment is made on such next succeeding Business Day or other day set out in such Officers' Certificate.
SECTION 1.14.
      
No Recourse Against Others
. A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Securityholder, by accepting a Security, waives and releases all such liability. Such waivers and releases are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Securities.
SECTION 1.15.
      
Judgment Currency
. The Company agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, that (a) if for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of, or premium or interest, if any, on the Securities of any series (the "
Required Currency"
) into a currency in which a judgment will be rendered (the "
Judgment Currency"
), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking
 
 
 
procedures the Trustee could purchase in the City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the New York Banking Day preceding that on which a final unappealable judgment is given and (b) its obligations under this Indenture to make payments in the Required Currency (i) shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender, or any recovery pursuant to any judgment (whether or not entered in accordance with subsection (a)), in any currency other than the Required Currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the actual receipt, by the payee, of the full amount of the Required Currency expressed to be payable in respect of such payments, (ii) shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for the purpose of recovering in the Required Currency the amount, if any, by which such actual receipt shall fall short of the full amount of the Required Currency so expressed to be payable and (iii) shall not be affected by judgment being obtained for any other sum due under this Indenture. For purposes of the foregoing, "
New York Banking Day"
means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday in the City of New York or a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to close.
ARTICLE 2
SECURITY FORMS
SECTION 2.01.
      
Forms Generally
. The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article, or in such other form as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the Officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. If the form of Securities of any series is established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 3.03 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities.
The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
SECTION 2.02.      
Form of Face of Security
.
[ FOR PURPOSES OF SECTION 1272 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "), THE AMOUNT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 1273(a)(1) OF THE CODE AND TREASURY REGULATION SECTION 1.1273-1(a)) WITH RESPECT TO THIS SECURITY IS ________, THE ISSUE DATE (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 1275(a)(2) OF THE CODE AND TREASURY
If the Security is an Original Issue Discount Security, insert
CODE"
 
 
 
REGULATION SECTION 1.1273-2(a)(2)) OF THIS SECURITY IS ________, THE ISSUE PRICE (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 1273(b) OF THE CODE AND TREASURY REGULATION 1.1273-2(a)) OF THIS SECURITY IS ________ AND THE YIELD TO MATURITY (AS DEFINED IN TREASURY REGULATION SECTION 1.1272-1(b)) OF THIS SECURITY IS ________  or insert other legend required by the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder.
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
.............................................
The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the " which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _______________, or registered assigns, the principal sum of _______________ [Dollars] on _______________ [ and to pay interest thereon from _______________ or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on _______________ and _______________ in each year [if other than semi-annual payments, insert frequency of payments and payment dates], commencing _____________________, at [if the Security is to bear interest at a fixed rate, insert the rate of _____% per annum], [if the Security is to bear interest at a variable or floating rate and if determined with reference to an index, refer to description of index below] until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment [, and (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) at the rate of _____% per annum on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue installment of interest]. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the __________ or __________ (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture].
Company,"
if the Security is to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert
if applicable insert
 
 
 
[If the Securities are floating or adjustable rate securities with respect to which the principal of or any premium or interest may be determined with reference to an index, insert the text of the floating or adjustable rate provision.]
[ The principal of this Security shall not bear interest except in the case of a default in payment of principal upon acceleration, upon redemption or at Stated Maturity and in such case the overdue principal of this Security shall bear interest at the rate of _____% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), which shall accrue from the date of such default in payment to the date payment of such principal has been made or duly provided for. Interest on any overdue principal shall be payable on demand. Any such interest on any overdue principal that is not so paid on demand shall bear interest at the rate of _____% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), which shall accrue from the date of such demand for payment to the date payment of such interest has been made or duly provided for, and such interest shall also be payable on demand.]
If the Security is not to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and [any such] interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in _______________, in dollars [; , , that at the option of the Company, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register].
if applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
provided
however
[If applicable, insert So long as all of the Securities of this series are represented by Securities in global form, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on this global Security shall be paid in same day funds to the Depositary, or to such name or entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depositary. If at any time the Securities of this series are no longer represented by global Securities and are issued in definitive certificated form, then the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on each certificated Security at Maturity shall be paid in same day funds to the Holder upon surrender of such certificated Security at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or at such other place or places as may be designated in or pursuant to the Indenture, that such certificated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, or at such other place or places as may be designated in or pursuant to the Indenture, that such certificated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, acting as Paying Agent, in time for the Paying Agent to make such payments in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Payments of interest with respect to such certificated Securities other than at Maturity may, at the option of the Company, be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as it appears on the Security Register on the relevant Regular or Special Record Date or by wire transfer in same day funds to such account as may have been appropriately designated to the Paying Agent by such Person in writing not later than such relevant Regular or Special Record Date.]
provided
provided
 
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
By:    _________________________________
Attest:
 
SECTION 2.03.      
Form of Reverse of Security
.
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of _______________, 2006 (herein called the "), between the Company and ____________________, as Trustee (herein called the " which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof [, limited in aggregate principal amount to $__________].
Securities"
Indenture"
Trustee,"
[ The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice by first class mail, [ (1) on __________ in any year commencing with the year __________ and ending with the year __________ through operation of the sinking fund for this series at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount, and (2)] at any time [on or after __________, _____], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the following Redemption Prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount):
If applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
If redeemed [on or before _______________, _____%, and if redeemed] during the 12-month period beginning _______________ of the years indicated,
 
 
 
 
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to _____% of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption [ (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise)] with accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
if applicable, insert
[ The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice by first class mail, (1) on _______________ in any year commencing with the year __________ and ending with the year __________ through operation of the sinking fund for this series at the Redemption Prices for redemption through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below, and (2) at any time [on or after __________], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the Redemption Prices for redemption otherwise than through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below:
If applicable, insert
If redeemed during a 12-month period beginning _________________ of the years indicated,
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to _____% of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise) with accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
 
 
 
[Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not, prior to __________, redeem any Securities of this series as contemplated by [clause (2) of] the preceding paragraph as a part of, or in anticipation of, any refunding operation by the application, directly or indirectly, of moneys borrowed having an interest cost to the Company (calculated in accordance with generally accepted financial practice) of less than _____% per annum.]
[The sinking fund for this series provides for the redemption on __________ in each year beginning with the year _____ and ending with the year _____ of [not less than] $_______________ [(") and not more than $____________] aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series.] [Securities of this series acquired or redeemed by the Company otherwise than through [mandatory] sinking fund payments may be credited against subsequent [mandatory] sinking fund payments otherwise required to be madein the inverse order in which they become due.]
mandatory sinking fund"
[In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.]
[ If any Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.]
If the Security is not an Original Issue Discount Security, insert
[ If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, an amount of principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Such amount shall be equal . Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal and overdue interest (in each case to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), all of the Company's obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on the Securities of this series shall terminate.]
If the Security is an Original Issue Discount Security, insert
insert formula for determining the amount
[This Security is subject to defeasance as described in the Indenture.]
The Indenture may be modified by the Company and the Trustee without consent of any Holder with respect to certain matters as described in the Indenture. In addition, the Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain
 
 
 
provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall bind such Holder and all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same Stated Maturity and aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of [$1,000] and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Indenture imposes certain limitations on the ability of the Company to, among other things, merge or consolidate with any other Person or sell, assign, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties or assets []. All such covenants and limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. The Company must report periodically to the Trustee on compliance with the covenants in the Indenture.
If other covenants are applicable pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01, insert here
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under this Security or the Indenture
 
 
 
or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder, by accepting a Security, waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of this Security.
[ Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures ("), the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Securities of this series as a convenience to the Holders of the Securities of this series. No representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of such numbers as printed on the Securities of this series and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed hereon.]
If applicable, insert
CUSIP"
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws (other than the choice of law provisions) of the State of New York.
ASSIGNMENT FORM
To assign this Security, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Security to
_____________________________________________________
(Insert assignee's social security or tax I.D. number)
_____________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________
()
Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code
and irrevocably appoint ___________________________________ agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
Social Security Number or Taxpayer Identification Number: ___________________________________________
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.04.      . The Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication
Dated: __________
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
SECTION 2.05.      . If Securities of or within a series are issuable in whole or in part in global form, then any such Security of such series may provide that it shall represent the aggregate or a specified amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series from time to time endorsed thereon and may also provide that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities of such series represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased to reflect exchanges. Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, or changes in the rights of Holders, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified therein or in the Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.03 or Section 3.04. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.03 and, if applicable, Section 3.04, the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified therein or in the applicable Company Order. If a Company Order pursuant to Section 3.03 or 3.04 has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Company with respect to endorsement or delivery or redelivery of a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 1.02 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel.
Securities in Global Form
The provisions of the last paragraph of Section 3.03 shall apply to any Security represented by a Security in global form if such Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Trustee the Security in global form together with written instructions (which need not comply with Section 1.02 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2.01 and 3.07, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01, payment of principal of and premium, if any, and interest on any Security in permanent global form shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.06.      . Any Security in global form authenticated and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form, or in such other form as may be necessary or appropriate to reflect the arrangements with or to comply with the requirements of any Depositary:
Form of Legend for the Securities in Global Form
ARTICLE 3
THE SECURITIES
SECTION 3.01.      . The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series
The Securities may be issued from time to time in one or more series. Prior to the issuance of Securities of any series, there shall be established in or pursuant to (i) a Board Resolution, (ii) action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution and (subject to Section 3.03) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or (iii) one or more indentures supplemental hereto:
(1)          the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other Securities);
(2)          the purchase price, denomination and any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Sections 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 9.06 or 11.07);
(3)          the date or dates on which the principal of and premium, if any, on the Securities of the series is payable or the method of determination thereof;
(4)          the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method of calculating such rate or rates of interest, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue or the method by which such
 
 
 
date or dates shall be determined, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable and the Regular Record Date, if any, for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date;
(5)          the place or places where the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on Securities of the series shall be payable;
(6)          the place or places where the Securities may be exchanged or transferred;
(7)          the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, the currency or currencies (including currency unit or units) in which, and the other terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, and, if other than as provided in Section 11.03, the manner in which the particular Securities of such series (if less than all Securities of such series are to be redeemed) are to be selected for redemption;
(8)          the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase Securities of the series in whole or in part pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or upon the happening of a specified event or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, and the other terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
(9)          if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable;
(10)       if other than U.S. dollars, the currency or currencies (including currency unit or units) in which payments of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of the series shall or may by payable, or in which the Securities of the series shall be denominated, and the particular provisions applicable thereto;
(11)       if the payments of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of the series are to be made, at the election of the Company or a Holder, in a currency or currencies (including currency unit or units) other than that in which such Securities are denominated or designated to be payable, the currency or currencies (including currency unit or units) in which such payments are to be made, the terms and conditions of such payments and the manner in which the exchange rate with respect to such payments shall be determined, and the particular provisions applicable thereto;
(12)       if the amount of payments of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of the series shall be determined with reference to an index, formula or other method (which index, formula or method may be based, without limitation, on a currency or currencies (including currency unit or units) other than that in which the Securities of the series are denominated or designated
 
 
 
to be payable), the index, formula or other method by which such amounts shall be determined;
(13)       if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02 or the method by which such portion shall be determined;
(14)        any modifications of or additions to the Events of Default or the covenants of the Company set forth herein with respect to Securities of the series;
(15)       if either or both of Section 13.02 and Section 13.03 shall be inapplicable to the Securities of the series ( that if no such inapplicability shall be specified, then both Section 13.02 and Section 13.03 shall be applicable to the Securities of the series);
provided
(16)       if other than the Trustee, the identity of the Registrar and any Paying Agent;
(17)       if the Securities of the series shall be issued in whole or in part in global form, (i) the Depositary for such global Securities, (ii) the form of any legend in addition to or in lieu of that in Section 2.06 which shall be borne by such global Security, (iii) whether beneficial owners of interests in any Securities of the series in global form may exchange such interests for certificated Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination, and (iv) if other than as provided in Section 3.05, the circumstances under which any such exchange may occur;
(18)       if the Holders of the Securities of the series may convert or exchange the Securities of the series into or for securities of the Company or of other entities or other property (or the cash value thereof), the specific terms of and period during which such conversion or exchange may be made; and
(19)        any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 9.01, but which may modify or delete any provision of this Indenture insofar as it applies to such series), including any terms which may be required by or advisable under the laws of the United States of America or regulations thereunder or advisable (as determined by the Company) in connection with the marketing of Securities of the series.
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided (i) by a Board Resolution, (ii) by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution and (subject to Section 3.03) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate or (iii) in any such indenture supplemental hereto. All Securities of any one series need not be issued at the
 
 
 
same time and, unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened, without the consent of the Holders, for issuances of additional Securities of such series.
If any of the terms of the Securities of any series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth, or providing the manner for determining, the terms of the Securities of such series, and an appropriate record of any action taken pursuant thereto in connection with the issuance of any Securities of such series shall be delivered to the Trustee prior to the authentication and delivery thereof.
SECTION 3.02.      . The Securities of each series shall be issuable in registered form without coupons in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 3.01. In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
Denominations
SECTION 3.03.      . The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Chief Financial Officer, or its Chief Accounting Officer under its corporate seal reproduced thereon attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile. The seal of the Company may be in the form of a facsimile thereof and may be impressed, affixed, imprinted or otherwise reproduced on the Securities. Typographical and other minor errors or defects in any such reproduction of the seal or any such signature shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any Security that has been duly authenticated and delivered by the Trustee.
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating
Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and make such Securities available for delivery. If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 3.01, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Sections 315(a) through (d) of the Trust Indenture Act) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,
 
 
 
 
(a)          if the form of such Securities has been established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution as permitted by Section 2.01, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(b)          if the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 3.01, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
(c)          that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except to the extent enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by the effect of general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee, or in the written opinion of counsel to the Trustee (which counsel may be an employee of the Trustee) such authentication may not lawfully be made or would involve the Trustee in personal liability.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 and of the immediately preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Board Resolution and the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 3.01 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to the second preceding paragraph at or prior to the time of authentication of each Security of such series if such documents are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued.
If the Company shall establish pursuant to Section 3.01 that the Securities of a series are to be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more global Securities, then the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section and the Company Order with respect to the authentication and delivery of such series, authenticate and deliver one or more Securities of such series in global form that (i) shall be in an aggregate amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series to be represented by such Security or Securities in global form, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary for such Security or Securities in global form or its nominee, and (iii) shall be made available for delivery by the Trustee to such Depositary or pursuant to such Depositary's instruction.
Each Depositary designated pursuant to Section 3.01 for a Security in global form must, at the time of its designation and at all times while it serves as Depositary, be a
 
 
 
clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and any other applicable statute or regulation. The Trustee shall have no responsibility to determine if the Depositary is so registered. Each Depositary shall enter into an agreement with the Trustee and the Company governing the respective duties and rights of such Depositary, the Company and the Trustee with regard to Securities issued in global form.
Unless otherwise provided for in the form of Security, each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
No Security shall be entitled to any benefits under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 3.09 together with a written statement (which need not comply with Section 1.02 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall not be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
SECTION 3.04.      . Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, temporary Securities of such series which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
Temporary Securities
In the case of Securities of any series, such temporary Securities may be in global form, representing all or a portion of the Outstanding Securities of such series.
Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form (which shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions thereof), if temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities
 
 
 
of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
SECTION 3.05.      . The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or in any office or agency to be maintained by the Company in accordance with Section 10.02 in a Place of Payment a register (the register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the ") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of registration of transfers of Securities. The Trustee is hereby appointed " for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange
Security Register"
Security Registrar"
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and Stated Maturity.
At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series (except a Security in global form) may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and Stated Maturity, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
Each Security issued in global form authenticated under this Indenture shall be registered in the name of the Depositary designated for such series or a nominee thereof and delivered to such Depositary or a nominee thereof or custodian therefor, and each such Security issued in global form shall constitute a single Security for all purposes of this Indenture.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in certificated form in the circumstances described below, a Security in global form representing all or a portion of the Securities of a series may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary for such series to a nominee of such Depositary or by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or another nominee of such Depositary or by such Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary for such series or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
If at any time the Depositary for the Securities of a series notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Securities of such series or defaults in the performance of its duties as Depositary or if at any time
 
 
 
the Depositary for the Securities of such series shall no longer be eligible under Section 3.03, the Company shall appoint a successor Depositary with respect to the Securities of such series. If a successor Depositary for the Securities of such series is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company's selection pursuant to Section 3.01(b)(18) shall no longer be effective with respect to the Securities of such series and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of certificated Securities of such series of like tenor, shall authenticate and deliver Securities of such series of like tenor in certificated form, in authorized denominations and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Security or Securities of such series of like tenor in global form in exchange for such Security or Securities in global form.
The Company may at any time in its sole discretion determine that Securities issued in global form shall no longer be represented by such a Security or Securities in global form. In such event the Company shall execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of certificated Securities of such series of like tenor, shall authenticate and deliver, Securities of such series of like tenor in certificated form, in authorized denominations and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Security or Securities of such series of like tenor in global form in exchange for such Security or Securities in global form.
If specified by the Company pursuant to Section 3.01 with respect to a series of Securities, the Depositary for such series may surrender a Security in global form of such series in exchange in whole or in part for Securities of such series in certificated form on such terms as are acceptable to the Company and such Depositary. Thereupon, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, without service charge,
(i)
           
to each Person specified by such Depositary a new certified Security or Securities of the same series of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Person in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for such Person's beneficial interest in the Security in global form; and
(ii)
          
to such Depositary a new Security in global form of like tenor in a denomination equal to the difference, if any, between the principal amount of the surrendered Security in global form and the aggregate principal amount of certificated Securities delivered to Holders thereof.
Upon the exchange of a Security in global form for Securities in certificated form, such Security in global form shall be canceled by the Trustee. Securities issued in exchange for a Security in global form pursuant to this Section shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary for such Security in global form, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
 
 
 
 
Whenever any Securities are surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
Unless otherwise provided in the Securities to be transferred or exchanged, no service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 3.04, 9.06 or 11.07 not involving any transfer.
If the Securities of any series (or of any series and specified tenor) are to be redeemed in part, the Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of such series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of that series selected for redemption under Section 11.03 and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption, in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
The foregoing provisions relating to registration, transfer and exchange may be modified, supplemented or superseded with respect to any series of Securities by a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto.
SECTION 3.06.
      
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
. If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its written request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such
 
 
 
destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
SECTION 3.07.
      
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved
. Interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.
Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "
Defaulted Interest"
) shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below:
(1)
          
The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment (which shall be not less than 25 days after the receipt by the Trustee of such notice, unless such Trustee shall consent to an earlier date), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such
 
 
 
Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities of such series at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Pers ons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following Clause (2).
(2)
          
The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause (2), such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
SECTION 3.08.
      
Persons Deemed Owners
. Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to Sections 3.05 and 3.07) interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
None of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interest of a Security in global form, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interest. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Security in global form, nothing herein shall prevent the Company or the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by any Depositary (or its nominee), as a Holder, with respect to such Security in global form or impair, as between such Depositary and owners of beneficial interests in such Security in global form, the operation of customary practices
 
 
 
governing the exercise of the right of such Depositary (or its nominee) as holder of such Security in global form.
SECTION 3.09.
      
Cancellation
. All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly canceled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All canceled Securities shall be held by the Trustee and disposed of in accordance with the Trust ee's standard procedures.
SECTION 3.10.
      
Computation of Interest
. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
SECTION 3.11.
      
CUSIP Number
. The Company in issuing Securities of any series may use a "CUSIP" number, and if so, the Trustee may use the CUSIP number in notices of redemption or exchange as a convenience to Holders of such series;
provided
, that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP number printed on the notice or on the Securities of such series, and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the CUSIP number of any series of Securities.
SECTION 3.12.
      
Wire Transfers
. Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Indenture, the Company may make any payment of moneys required to be deposited with the Trustee on account of principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on the Securities (whether pursuant to optional or mandatory redemption payments, interest payments or otherwise) by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated by the Trustee on or before the date and time such moneys are to be paid to the Holders of the Securities in accordance with the terms hereof.
SECTION 3.13.
      
Original Issue Discount
. The Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of such year (ii) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
 
 
 
ARTICLE 4
SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE
SECTION 4.01.
      
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
. This Indenture shall cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities and replacement of such Securities which may have been lost, stolen or mutilated as herein expressly provided for or in the form of Security for such series), when the Trustee, upon Company Request and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when
(1)
          
either (a) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 3.06 and (ii) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 10.08) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or (b) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation (i) have become due and payable, or (ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or (iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company, and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose an amount, in the currency or currencies or currency unit or units in which the Securities of such series are payable, sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal, premium, if any, and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
(2)
          
the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
(3)
          
the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for herein relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 6.07, the obligations of the Company to any Authenticating Agent under Section 6.14 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 10.08 shall survive.
SECTION 4.02.
      
Application of Trust Money
. Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 10.08, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine,
 
 
 
to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with or received by the Trustee, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
ARTICLE 5
REMEDIES
SECTION 5.01.
      
Events of Default
. "
Event of Default,"
wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or to be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
(1)
          
the Company defaults in the payment of interest on any Security of that series when such interest becomes due and payable and the default continues for a period of 30 days; or
(2)
          
the Company defaults in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, on any Security of that series when the same becomes due and payable at Maturity or on redemption or otherwise; or
(3)
          
the Company fails to deposit any sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of a Security of that series; or
(4)
          
the Company fails to observe or perform in any material respect any of its other covenants, agreements or warranties in the Securities of that series or this Indenture (other than a covenant, agreement or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of series of Securities other than that series), and the failure to observe or perform continues for the period and after the notice specified in the last paragraph of this Section; or
(5)
          
an event of default, as defined in any mortgage, indenture, or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any Indebtedness of the Company (including Securities of another series) (other than the Securities of such series) (whether such Indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created or incurred) shall occur and shall result in Indebtedness becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise become due and payable, and such default in payment is not cured or such acceleration shall not be rescinded or annulled within 10 days after written notice to the Company from the Trustee or to the Company and to the Trustee from the Holders of at least twenty-five percent in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of t hat series specifying such event of default and requiring the Company to cure such default in payment or cause such acceleration to be rescinded or annulled and stating that such notice is a "
Notice of Default"
hereunder;
provided
,
however
, that it shall not be an Event of Default if the principal amount of Indebtedness which is not paid at maturity or the maturity of which is accelerated is equal to or less than $20,000,000;
provided
further
 
 
 
that if, prior to a declaration of acceleration of the maturity of the Securities of that series or the entry of judgment in favor of the Trustee in a suit pursuant to Section 5.03, such default shall be remedied or cured by the Company or waived by the holders of such Indebtedness, then the Event of Default hereunder by reason thereof shall be deemed likewise to have been thereupon remedied, cured or waived without further action upon the part of either the Trustee or any of the Holders of the Securities of that series, and
provided
further
, that, subject to Sections 6.01 and 6.02, the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of any such default unless written notice of such default shall have been given to the Trustee by the Company, by a holder or an agent of a holder of any such Indebtedness, by the trustee then acting under any inde nture or other instrument under which such default shall have occurred, or by the Holders of at least five percent in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series at the time outstanding; or
(6)
          
the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law (a) commences a voluntary case or proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law with respect to itself, (B) consents to the entry of a judgment, decree or order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law, (C) consents to or acquiesces in the institution of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it, (D) applies for, consents to or acquiesces in the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property, (E) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors or (F) takes any corporate action in furtherance of or to facilitate, conditionally or otherwise, any of the foregoing; or
(7)
          
(i) a court of competent jurisdiction enters a judgment, decree or order for relief in an involuntary case or proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law which shall (a) approve as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition in respect of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, (B) appoint a Custodian of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or for all or substantially all of its property or (C) order the winding-up or liquidation of affairs of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, and such judgment, decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or (ii) any bankruptcy or insolvency petition or application is filed, or any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding is commenced, against the Company or any o f its Restricted Subsidiaries and such petition, application or proceeding is not dismissed within 60 days; or (iii) a warrant of attachment is issued against any material portion of the property of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries which is not released within 60 days of service; or
(8)
          
any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series.
A Default under clause (4) above is not an Event of Default until the Trustee or the Holders of at least twenty-five percent in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series notify the Company of the Default and the Company does not cure the Default within 60 days after receipt of the notice. The notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that the notice is a "
Notice of
 
 
 
Default."
When a Default under clause (4) above is cured within such 60-day period, it ceases to be a Default.
SECTION 5.02.
      
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
. If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series (other than an Event of Default specified in clause (6) or (7) of Section 5.01) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee by notice in writing to the Company, or the Holders of at least twenty-five percent in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series by notice in writing to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the unpaid principal of and accrued interest to the date of acceleration (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) on all the Outstanding Securities of that series to be due and payable immediately and, upon any such declaration, t he Outstanding Securities of that series (or specified principal amount) shall become and be immediately due and payable.
If an Event of Default specified in clause (6) or (7) of Section 5.01 occurs, all unpaid principal of and accrued interest on the Outstanding Securities of that series (or specified principal amount) shall ipso facto become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of any Security of that series.
Upon payment of all such principal and interest, all of the Company's obligations under the Securities of that series and (upon payment of the Securities of all series) this Indenture shall terminate, except obligations under Section 6.07.
At any time after a declaration of acceleration of Maturity with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series by notice to the Trustee may rescind an acceleration and its consequences if (i) all existing Events of Default, other than the nonpayment of the principal of and interest on the Securities of that series that has become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived, (ii) to the extent the payment of such interest is lawful, interest on overdue installments of interest and overdue principal that has become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration have been paid, (iii) the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a cour t of competent jurisdiction and (iv) all payments due to the Trustee and any predecessor Trustee under Section 6.07 have been made.
SECTION 5.03.
      
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
The Company covenants that if:
(1)
          
default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security of any series when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
 
 
 
(2)
          
default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of any series at the Maturity thereof, or
(3)
          
default is made in the payment of any sinking or analogous obligation when the same becomes due by the terms of the Securities of any series, and any such default continues for any period of grace provided with respect to the Securities of such series,
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) and interest and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal (and premium, if any) and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to secure any other proper remedy.
SECTION 5.04.
      
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
. In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
(i)
           
to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (and premium, if any) and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements
 
 
 
and advances of the Trustee, its agent and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceedings, and
(ii)
          
to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
SECTION 5.05.
      
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities
. All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
SECTION 5.06.
      
Application of Money Collected
. Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article in respect of the Securities of any series shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal, premium, if any, or interest, upon presentation of the Securities in respect of which moneys have been collected and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
First:
To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07 applicable to such series;
Second:
To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of such series in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities of such series for principal, and premium, if any, and interest, respectively; and
Third:
To the Company.
 
 
 
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section 5.06. At least ten (10) days before such record date, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder and the Company a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid.
SECTION 5.07.
      
Limitation on Suits
. No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
(1)
          
such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
(2)
          
the Holders of at least twenty-five percent in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
(3)
          
such Holder or Holders shall have offered to the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
(4)
          
the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(5)
          
no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of Holders of Securities of any series shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all Holders of Securities of the affected series.
SECTION 5.08.
      
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest
. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to Section 3.07) interest on such Security on the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
SECTION 5.09.
      
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
. If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been
 
 
 
determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding has been instituted.
SECTION 5.10.
      
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
. Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 3.06, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
SECTION 5.11.
      
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
. No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
SECTION 5.12.
      
Control by Holders
. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series,
provided
that:
(1)
          
such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture;
(2)
          
the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction; and
(3)
          
subject to Section 6.01, the Trustee need not take any action which might involve the Trustee in personal liability or be unduly prejudicial to the Holders not joining therein.
SECTION 5.13.
      
Waiver of Past Defaults
. The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may by written notice to the Trustee on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any Default or Event of Default with respect to such series and its consequences, except a Default or Event of Default
(1)
          
in respect of the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest on any Security of such series, or
 
 
 
(2)
          
in respect of a covenant or other provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
Upon any such waiver, such Default or Event of Default shall cease to exist and shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture and the Securities of such series; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
SECTION 5.14.
      
Undertaking for Costs
. All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the C ompany, to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than ten percent in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest on any Security on or after the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date).
ARTICLE 6
THE TRUSTEE
SECTION 6.01.
      
Certain Duties and Responsibilities of the Trustee
. (a) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee's duties and responsibilities under this Indenture shall be governed by Section 315(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
(b)
          
In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and is known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and shall use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
(c)
          
None of the provisions of Section 315(d) of the Trust Indenture Act shall be excluded from this Indenture.
(d)
          
Every provision of this Indenture which pertains to the Trustee shall be subject to this Section 6.01.
SECTION 6.02.
      
Notice of Defaults
. Within 90 days after the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall
 
 
 
give to all Holders of Securities of such series, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such Default or Event of Default known to the Trustee, unless such Default or Event of Default shall have been cured or waived;
provided
,
however
, that, except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest on any Security of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determine that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series.
SECTION 6.03.
      
Certain Rights of Trustee
. Subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act:
(a)
          
the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(b)
          
any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
(c)
          
whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
(d)
          
the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
(e)
          
the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(f)
           
prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default which may have occurred, the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, approval or other paper or document, or the books and records of the Company, unless requested in writing to do so by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series;
 
 
 
provided
,
however
, that if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making of such investigation is not, in the opinion of the Trustee, reasonably assured to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Indenture, the Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it against such costs, expenses or liabilities as a condition to so proceeding; the reasonable expense of every such investigation shall be paid by the Company or, if paid by the Trustee, shall be repaid by the Company upon demand;
(g)
          
the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder; and
(h)
          
the Trustee shall not be required to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
(i)
           
the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default of Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture;
(j)
           
the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder; and
(k)
          
the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titled of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded.
SECTION 6.04.
      
Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities
. The recitals herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture, authenticate the Securities and perform its obligations hereunder, and that the statements made by it or to be made by it in a Statement of Eligibility and Qualification on Form T-1 supplied to the Company are true and accurate. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be acc ountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
 
 
 
SECTION 6.05.
      
May Hold Securities
. The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 6.08 and 6.13, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
SECTION 6.06.
      
Money Held in Trust
. Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder (including amounts held by the Trustee as Paying Agent) need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed upon in writing with the Company.
SECTION 6.07.      
Compensation and Reimbursement.
The Company agrees
(1)
          
to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(2)
          
except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and
(3)
          
to indemnify each of the Trustee or any predecessor trustee and their agents for, and to hold them harmless against, any and all loss, liability, damage, claim or expense, including taxes (other than taxes based upon or determined or measured by the income of the Trustee), incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, or any Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
The Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities as to all property and funds held by it hereunder for any amount owing it or any predecessor Trustee pursuant to this Section 6.07, except with respect to funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities.
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 5.01(6) or Section 5.01(7), the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Bankruptcy Law.
 
 
 
The provisions of this Section 6.07 shall survive this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee.
SECTION 6.08.
      
Disqualification; Conflicting Interests
. The Trustee shall be disqualified only where such disqualification is required by Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. Nothing shall prevent the Trustee from filing with the Commission the application referred to in the second to last paragraph of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 6.09.
      
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility
. There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be eligible to act as Trustee under Section 310(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. Neither the Company nor any Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Company m ay serve as Trustee. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
SECTION 6.10.
      
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor
. (a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 6.11.
(b)
          
The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 6.11 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction at the expense of the Company for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(c)
          
The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.
(d)          If at any time:
(1)
          
the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months; or
(2)
          
the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 6.09 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder
 
 
 
of a Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months; or
(3)
          
the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation;
then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to Section 315(e) of the Trust Indenture Act, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of removal, the Trustee being removed may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction, for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(e)
          
If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 6.11. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series s hall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 6.11, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company with respect to such Securities. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 6.11, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(f)
           
The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Securities of such series
 
 
 
as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
SECTION 6.11.
      
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor
. (a)  In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Tru stee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.
(b)
          
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or d esirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
(c)
          
Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such
 
 
 
successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be.
(d)
          
No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under the Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 6.12.
      
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business
. Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder,
provided
such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor (by merger, conversion , consolidation or otherwise as permitted hereunder) to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
SECTION 6.13.
      
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
. The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship listed in Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent indicated therein.
SECTION 6.14.
      
Appointment of Authenticating Agent
. At any time when any of the Securities remain Outstanding the Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of, and subject to the direction of, the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 3.06, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be de emed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an
 
 
 
Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent,
provided
such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall mail written notice of such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation as negotiated between the Company and such Authenticating Agent for its services under this Section.
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form:
 
 
 
Form of Authenticating Agent's
Certificate of Authentication
Dated: ____________________
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
SECTION 6.15.
      
Compliance with Tax Laws
. The Trustee hereby agrees to comply with all U.S. Federal income tax information reporting and withholding requirements applicable to it with respect to payments of premium (if any) and interest on the Securities of any series, whether acting as Trustee, Security Registrar, Paying Agent or otherwise with respect to the Securities of any series.
ARTICLE 7
HOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS BY TRUSTEE AND COMPANY
SECTION 7.01.
      
Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders
. The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
(a)
          
semi-annually, not later than 15 days after the Regular Record Date for each series of Securities, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities as of such Regular Record Date (unless the Trustee has such information), or if there is no Regular Record Date for interest for such series of Securities, semi-annually, upon such dates as are set forth in the Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto authorizing such series, and
(b)
          
at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
provided
,
however
, that so long as the Trustee is the Security Registrar, no such list shall be required to be furnished.
SECTION 7.02.
      
Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders
. (a)  The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 7.01 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the
 
 
 
Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 7.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
(b)
          
If three or more Holders (herein referred to as "
applicants"
) apply in writing to the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee reasonable proof that each such applicant has owned a Security for a period of at least six months preceding the date of such application, and such application states that the applicants desire to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities and is accompanied by a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which such applicants propose to transmit, then the Trustee shall, within five Business Days after the receipt of such application, at its election, either
(i)
           
afford such applicants access to the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 7.02(a); or
(ii)
          
inform such applicants as to the approximate number of Holders whose names and addresses appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 7.02(a), and as to the approximate cost of mailing to such Holders the form of proxy or other communication, if any, specified in such application.
If the Trustee shall elect not to afford such applicants access to such information, the Trustee shall, upon the written request of such applicants, mail to each Holder whose name and address appears in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 7.02(a) a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which is specified in such request, with reasonable promptness after a tender to the Trustee of the material to be mailed and of payment, or provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of mailing, unless within five days after such tender the Trustee shall mail to such applicants and file with the Commission, together with a copy of the material to be mailed, a written statement to the effect that, in the opinion of the Trustee, such mailing would be contrary to the best interest of the Holders or would be in violation of applicable law. Such written statement shall sp ecify the basis of such opinion. If the Commission, after opportunity for a hearing upon the objections specified in the written statement so filed, shall enter an order refusing to sustain any of such objections or if, after the entry of an order sustaining one or more of such objections, the Commission shall find, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that all objections so sustained have been met and shall enter an order so declaring, the Trustee shall mail copies of such material to all such Holders with reasonable promptness after the entry of such order and the renewal of such tender; otherwise the Trustee shall be relieved of any obligation or duty to such applicants respecting their application.
(c)
          
Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in accordance with Section 7.02(b), regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that
 
 
 
the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under Section 7.02(b).
SECTION 7.03.
      
Reports by Trustee
. (a) Within 60 days after September 15 of each year commencing with the year 2006, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Holders of Securities as provided in Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, a brief report dated as of September 15, if required by and in compliance with Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act. The Trustee shall also comply with Section 313(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
(b)
          
A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company will notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange and any delisting thereof.
SECTION 7.04.      
Reports by Company
. The Company shall:
(1)          file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of said Sections, then it shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a securit y listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations;
(2)          file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants of this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations;
(3)          transmit by mail to all Holders, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, (a) concurrently with furnishing the same to its stockholders, the Company's annual report to stockholders, containing certified financial statements, and any other financial reports which the Company generally furnishes to its stockholders, and (b) within 30 days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, such summaries of any other information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission; and
(4)          furnish to the Trustee, on October 15 of each year, a brief certificate from the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer
 
 
 
as to his or her knowledge of the Company's compliance with all conditions and covenants under this Indenture. For purposes of this paragraph, such compliance shall be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided under this Indenture. Such certificate need not comply with Section 1.02.
Delivery of reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
ARTICLE 8
CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, LEASE, SALE OR TRANSFER
SECTION 8.01.       The Company shall not consolidate with, or merge with or into, any other Person (whether or not the Company shall be the surviving corporation), or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to any Person or group of affiliated Persons, in one transaction or a series of related transactions, unless
When Company May Merge, Etc.
:
(1)          either the Company shall be the continuing Person or the Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or with which or into which the Company is merged or the Person (or group of affiliated Persons) to which all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Company as an entirety or substantially as an entirety are conveyed, transferred or leased shall be a corporation (or constitute corporations) organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, all the obligations of the Company under the Securities and this Indenture; and
(2)          immediately after giving effect to such transaction or series of related transactions, no Event of Default, and no Default, shall have occurred and be continuing.
SECTION 8.02.      . The Company shall deliver to the Trustee prior to the proposed transaction(s) covered by Section 8.01 an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the transaction(s) and such supplemental indenture comply with this Indenture and that all conditions precedent to the consummation of the transaction(s) under this Indenture have been met.
Opinion of Counsel
SECTION 8.03.      . Upon any consolidation by the Company with or merger by the Company into any other corporation or any conveyance, transfer or lease all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company in accordance with Section 801, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the successor corporation or affiliated group of corporations to which such lease, sale, assignment or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation or
Successor Corporation Substituted
 
 
 
corporations had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor corporation or corporations shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities and in the event of such conveyance or transfer, except in the case of a lease, any such predecessor corporation may be dissolved and liquidated.
ARTICLE 9
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES
SECTION 9.01.      . Without notice to or the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
(1)          to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities; or
(2)          to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
(3)          to add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any series of Securities; or
(4)          to add or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in bearer form, registrable or not registrable as to principal, and with or without interest coupons; or
(5)          to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture, that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision; or
provided
(6)          to secure the Securities; or
(7)          to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 3.01; or
(8)          to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 6.11(b); or
 
 
 
(9)          to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein; or
(10)        to make any change that does not materially adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series; or
(11)        to add guarantees with respect to any or all of the Securities; or
(12)        to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities ( that the uncertificated Securities are issued in registered form for purposes of Section 163(f) of the Internal Revenue Code or in a manner such that the uncertificated Securities are described in Section 163(f)(2)(B) of such Code).
provided
Upon request of the Company, accompanied by a Board Resolution authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in (and subject to the last sentence of) Section 9.03, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of any supplemental indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Indenture.
SECTION 9.02.      . With the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture (with the Securities of each series voting as a class), by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee shall, subject to Section 9.03, enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security af fected thereby,
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders
provided
however
(1)          change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or premium, if any, or any installment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable upon the redemption, repurchase or repayment thereof, or change the manner in which the amount of any principal thereof or premium, if any, or interest thereon is determined, or reduce the amount of the principal of any Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02, or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency or currency unit in which, any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the State d Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date);
(2)          reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain
 
 
 
provisions of this Indenture or Defaults or Events of Default hereunder and their consequences provided for in this Indenture; or
(3)          change the redemption provisions (including Article 11) hereof in a manner adverse to such Holder; or
(4)          modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 5.13 or Section 10.11, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby; , , that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 10.11, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 6.11(b) and 9.01(8).
provided
however
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provisions of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
SECTION 9.03.      . The Trustee shall sign any supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article, subject to the last sentence of this Section 9.03. In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 6.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
SECTION 9.04.      . Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
SECTION 9.05.      . Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act
 
 
 
SECTION 9.06.      . Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
ARTICLE 10
COVENANTS
SECTION 10.01.    . With respect to each series of Securities, the Company will duly and punctually pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on such Securities in accordance with their terms and this Indenture, and will duly comply with all the other terms, agreements and conditions contained in, or made in the Indenture for the benefit of, the Securities of such series.
Payments of Securities
SECTION 10.02.    . The Company will maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange or for presentation for payment, where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the address of the Trustee as set forth in Section 1.05 hereof.
Maintenance of Office or Agency
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
SECTION 10.03.    . Subject to Article 8 hereof, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and that of each of its Subsidiaries and the rights (charter and statutory), licenses and franchises of the Company and its Subsidiaries; , , that (a) the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right, license or franchise or the corporate existence of any of its Subsidiaries if the Board of Directors, or the board of directors of the Subsidiary concerned, as the case may be, shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and (b) nothing herein contained shall prevent any Subsidiary of the Company from liquidating or dissolving, or merging into, or consolidat ing with the Company ( that the Company shall be the continuing or surviving corporation) or with any one or more other Subsidiaries if the Board of
Corporate Existence
provided
however
provided
 
 
 
Directors or the board of directors of the Subsidiary concerned, as the case may be, shall so determine.
SECTION 10.04.    . The Company will pay or discharge, or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (1) all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary, and (2) all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a material lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary; , , that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate provision has been made.
Payment of Taxes and Other Claims
provided
however
SECTION 10.05.    . The Company will cause all material properties used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of any of its Subsidiaries to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order (normal wear and tear excepted) and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary, so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all times; , , that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Company from discontinuing the operation or maintenance of any of such properties, or disposing of any of them, if such discontinuance or disposal is, in the judgment of the Board of Directors or of the board of d irectors of the Subsidiary concerned, as the case may be, desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company.
Maintenance of Properties
provided
however
SECTION 10.06.    . (a) The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (which fiscal year currently ends on December 31), an Officers' Certificate stating whether or not the signer knows of any Default or Event of Default by the Company that occurred prior to the end of the fiscal year and is then continuing. If the signer does know of such a Default or Event of Default, the certificate shall describe each such Default or Event of Default and its status and the specific section or sections of this Indenture in connection with which such Default or Event of Default has occurred. The Company shall also promptly notify the Trustee in writing should the Company's fiscal year be changed so that the end thereof is on any date other than the date on which the Company's fiscal year currently ends. The certificate need not comply with Section 1.02 hereof, but shall comply with Section 314(a)(4) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Compliance Certificates
(b)          The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 10 days after the occurrence thereof, notice of any acceleration which with the giving of notice and the lapse of time would be an Event of Default within the meaning of Section 5.01(5) hereof.
(c)          The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 100 days after the end of each fiscal year a written statement by the Company's independent certified public
 
 
 
accountants stating (i) that their audit examination has included a review of the terms of this Indenture and the Securities as they relate to accounting matters and (ii) whether, in connection with their audit examination, any Default has come to their attention and if such a Default has come to their attention, specifying the nature and period of existence thereof and the specific section or sections of this Indenture in connection with which such Default has occurred; that, without any restriction as to the scope of the audit examination, such independent certified public accountants shall not be liable by reason of the failure to obtain knowledge of such Default that would not be disclosed in the course of an audit examination conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
provided
(d)          The Company shall deliver to the Trustee forthwith upon becoming aware of a Default or Event of Default (but in no event later than 10 days after the occurrence of each Default or Event of Default that is continuing), an Officers' Certificate setting forth the details of such Default or Event of Default and the action that the Company proposes to take with respect thereto and the specific section or sections of this Indenture in connection with which such Default or Event of Default has occurred.
SECTION 10.07.    . The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim, and will actively resist any and all efforts to be compelled to take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury law or other law, which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the principal of and/or interest on the Securities as contemplated herein, wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) the Company hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffe r and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws
SECTION 10.08.    . If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or prior to each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure to so act.
 
 
 
The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities (other than the Trustee) to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will:
(1)          hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on Securities of that series in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
(2)          give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment of principal (and premium, if any) or interest on the Securities of that series; and
(3)          at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal (and premium, if any) or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee of such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in New York, New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided
however
SECTION 10.09.    . Unless the terms of a particular series of Securities otherwise provide, so long as any Securities of such series remain Outstanding, the Company will not, nor will it permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, issue, incur, create, assume or guarantee any Indebtedness secured by a mortgage, security interest, pledge, lien, charge or other encumbrance (mortgages, security interests, pledges, liens, charges
Limitations on Liens
 
 
 
and other encumbrances being hereinafter in this Article 10 referred to as " or ") upon any assets of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary (whether such assets are now existing or owned or hereafter created or acquired) without in any such case effectively providing concurrently with the issuance, incurrence, creation, assumption or guaranty of any such Indebtedness that the Securities of such series (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other indebtedness of or guarantee by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary ranking equally with the Securities of such series and then existing or thereafter created) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or, at the Company's option, prior to) such secured Indebtedness until such time as such Indebtedness is no longer secured by a lien. The preceding sentence shall not require the Company to secure any Securities of suc h series if the lien consists of either of the following:
lien"
liens"
(a)          Permitted Liens; or
(b)          liens securing Indebtedness if, after giving pro forma effect to the incurrence, creation, assumption or guaranty of such Indebtedness (and the receipt and application of the proceeds thereof) or the securing of outstanding Indebtedness, the sum of (without duplication) (i) the aggregate principal amount of all such Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries secured by liens (other than Permitted Liens) upon the assets of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or, if less, the fair market value of the property subject to such lien, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors and (ii) all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Lease-Back Transactions not otherwise permitted under the first sentence of Section 10.11, at the time of determination does not exceed fifteen percent of Consolidated Net Worth.
SECTION 10.10.    . Unless the terms of a particular series of Securities otherwise provide, so long as any Securities of such series remain Outstanding, the Company will not, nor will it permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction for a term of more than three years unless (a) the assets subject to the Sale and Lease-back Transaction have not been owned by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or have not been in full operation for more than one year prior to the Sale and Lease-back Transaction or (b) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled to incur Indebtedness secured by a lien on such assets in an amount at least equal to the Attributable Debt with respect to such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction without equally and ratably securing the Securities of such series pursuant to Sect ion 10.10 or (c) the Company, within 180 days after the effective date of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction, applies an amount equal to the value of such assets to the defeasance or retirement (other than any mandatory retirement, mandatory prepayment or sinking fund payment or by way of payment at maturity) of Securities or other Indebtedness of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary that matures more than one year after the creation of such Indebtedness or to the purchase, construction or development of other comparable property or (d) the transaction is between the Company and one of its Restricted Subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries shall be allowed to enter into Sale and Lease-back Transactions if, after giving pro forma effect to such Sale and Lease-back Transaction (and the receipt and application of proceeds thereof) the sum of (without
Limitations on Sale and Lease-back Transactions
 
 
 
duplication) (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries secured by liens (other than Permitted Liens) upon the assets of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or, if less, the fair market value of the property subject to such lien, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors and (ii) all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Lease-Back Transactions not otherwise permitted under the first sentence of this Section 10.11, at the time of determination does not exceed fifteen percent of Consolidated Net Worth.
SECTION 10.11.    . The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Sections 10.09 or 10.10 with respect to the Securities of any series if before the time for such compliance the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act or such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Waiver of Certain Covenants
11
ARTICLE
REDEMPTION
OF
SECURITIES
SECTION 11.01.    . Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Applicability of Article
SECTION 11.02.    . The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all the Securities of any series, the Company shall, at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
SECTION 11.03.    . If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not less than 90 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, substantially pro rata, by lot or by any other method as the Trustee considers fair and appropriate and that complies with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which such Securities are listed, and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal
Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed
 
 
 
amount of Securities of such series of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series; that in case the Securities of such series have different terms and maturities, the Securities to be redeemed shall be selected by the Company and the Company shall give notice thereof to the Trustee.
provided
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of the Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
SECTION 11.04.    . Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register.
Notice of Redemption
All notices of redemption shall state:
(1)          the Redemption Date;
(2)          the Redemption Price;
(3)          if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed;
(4)          that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date;
(5)          the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price;
(6)          that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case; and
(7)          the CUSIP number, if any, of the Securities to be redeemed.
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company.
SECTION 11.05.    . On or prior to 10:00 New York City time on the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 10.08) an amount of money sufficient to pay the
Deposit of Redemption Price
 
 
 
Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
Unless any Security by its terms prohibits any sinking fund payment obligation from being satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities (including Securities redeemed otherwise than through a sinking fund), the Company may deliver such Securities to the Trustee for crediting against such payment obligation in accordance with the terms of such Securities and this Indenture.
SECTION 11.06.    . Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; , , that installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Regular or Special Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 3.07.
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
provided
however
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
SECTION 11.07.    . Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at an office or agency of the Company at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and Stated Maturity, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
Securities Redeemed in Part
ARTICLE 12
SINKING FUNDS
SECTION 12.01.    . The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of such series.
Applicability of Article
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a " and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of
mandatory sinking fund payment,"
 
 
 
Securities of any series is herein referred to as an " If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 12.02. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
optional sinking fund payment."
SECTION 12.02.    . The Company (1) may deliver Securities of a series (other than any Securities previously called for redemption) and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemp tion through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
provided
SECTION 12.03.    . Not less than 45 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 12.02 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered (which have not been previously delivered). Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 11.03 and cause notice of the redemption th ereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 11.04. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 11.06 and 11.07.
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
ARTICLE 13
DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE
SECTION 13.01.    . Unless pursuant to Section 3.01 provision is made for the inapplicability of either or both of (a) defeasance of the Securities of a series under Section 13.02 or (b) covenant defeasance of the Securities of a series under Section 13.03, then the provisions of such Section or Sections, as the case may be, together with the other provisions of this Article, shall be applicable to the Securities of such series, and the Company may at its option by Board Resolution, at any time, with respect to the Securities of such series, elect to have either Section 13.02 (unless inapplicable) or
Applicability of Article; Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
 
 
 
Section 13.03 (unless inapplicable) be applied to the Outstanding Securities of such series upon compliance with the applicable conditions set forth below in this Article.
SECTION 13.02.    . Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 13.01 to defease the Outstanding Securities of a particular series, the Company shall be discharged from its obligations with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series on the date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, "). Defeasance shall mean that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Securities of such series and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same); , , that the following rights, obligations, powers, tru sts, duties and immunities shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (A) the rights of Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund provided for in Section 13.04, payments in respect of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on such Securities when such payments are due, (B) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 10.02 and 10.08, (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (D) this Article. Subject to compliance with this Article, the Company may exercise its option with respect to defeasance under this Section 13.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option with respect to covenant defeasance under Section 13.03 in regard to the Securities of such series.
Defeasance and Discharge
defeasance"
provided
however
SECTION 13.03.    . Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 13.01 to obtain a covenant defeasance with respect to the Outstanding Securities of a particular series, the Company shall be released from its obligations under this Indenture (except its obligations under Sections 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 5.06, 5.09, 6.10, 10.01, 10.02, 10.06, 10.07 and 10.08) with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series on and after the date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, "). Covenant defeasance shall mean that, with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in this Indenture (except its obligations under Sections 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 5.06, 5.0 9, 6.10, 10.01, 10.02, 10.06, 10.07 and 10.08), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein or by reason of any reference to any other provision herein or in any other document, and such omission to comply shall not constitute an Event of Default under Section 5.01(4) with respect to Outstanding Securities of such series, and the remainder of this Indenture and of the Securities of such series shall be unaffected thereby.
Covenant Defeasance
covenant defeasance"
SECTION 13.04.    . The following shall be the conditions to defeasance under Section 13.02 and covenant defeasance under Section 13.03 with respect to the Outstanding Securities of a particular series:
Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
 
 
 
(1)          The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 6.09 who shall agree to comply with the provisions of this Article applicable to it), under the terms of an irrevocable trust agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Trustee, as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, (A) money in an amount, or (B) U.S. Government Obligations which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, in each case sufficient, after payment of all federal, state and local taxes or other charges or assessments in respect thereof payable by the Trustee, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, (i) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and each installment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Outstanding Securities of such series on the Stated Maturity of such principal or installment of principal or interest and (ii) any mandatory sinking fund payments or analogous payments applicable to the Outstanding Securities of such series on the day on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and of such Securities.
(2)          No Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or shall occur as a result of such deposit, and no Default or Event of Default under clause (6) or (7) of Section 5.01 hereof shall occur and be continuing, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period).
(3)          Such deposit, defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
(4)          Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not cause any Securities of such series then listed on any national securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act to be delisted.
(5)          In the case of an election with respect to Section 13.02, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee either (a) a ruling directed to the Trustee received from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such defeasance had not occurred or (B) an Opinion of Counsel, based on such ruling or on a change in the applicable federal income tax law since the date of this Indenture, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such defeasance and will be subject to federal income
 
 
tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such defeasance had not occurred.
(6)          In the case of an election with respect to Section 13.03, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel or a ruling directed to the Trustee received from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such covenant defeasance had not occurred.
(7)          Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional terms, conditions or limitations which may be imposed on the Company in connection therewith pursuant to Section 3.01.
(8)          The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to either the defeasance under Section 13.02 or the covenant defeasance under Section 13.03 (as the case may be) have been complied with
.
SECTION 13.05.    . Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 10.08, all money and Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trusteecollectively for purposes of this Section 13.05, the ") pursuant to Section 13.04 in respect of the Outstanding Securities of a particular series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Deposited Money and Government Obligations To Be Held in Trust
Trustee"
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 13.04 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof, other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series.
Anything in this Article to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 13.04 with respect to Securities of any series which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited for the purpose for which such money or Government Obligations were deposited.
 
 
 
SECTION 13.06.    . If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money or U.S. Government Obligations, as the case may be, in accordance with this Article with respect to any Securities by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the obligations under this Indenture and such Securities from which the Company has been discharged or released pursuant to Section 13.02 or 13.03 shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article with respect to such Securities, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all money or U.S. Government Obligations, as the case may be, held in trust pursuant to Section 13.05 with respect to such Securities in accordance with this Article; , , tha t if the Company makes any payment of principal of or any premium or interest on any such Security following such reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights (if any) of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money or U.S. Government Obligations, as the case may be, so held in trust.
Reinstatement
provided
however
ARTICLE 14
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 14.01.    . This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Miscellaneous
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
[SEAL]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
and
THE BANK OF NEW YORK
Trustee
__________________________
First Supplemental Indenture
Dated as of November 15, 2006
to the Senior Debt Indenture dated as of November 15, 2006
____________________________
Creating a series of Securities designated
4.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2023
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
Page                    
 
 
 
ARTICLE 1
 
DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION
ARTICLE 2
 
THE NOTES
 
ARTICLE 3
 
GLOBAL SECURITIES
ARTICLE 4
 
REMEDIES
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)
Page                    
 
 
ARTICLE 5
 
DISCHARGE OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
ARTICLE 6
 
WAIVER, MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS
ARTICLE 7
 
RANKING
ARTICLE 8
 
MISCELLANEOUS
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIRST
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of November 15, 2006, between THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC., a Delaware corporation, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, a New York banking corporation, as trustee.
RECITALS OF THE COMPANY
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee a Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of November 15, 2006 (the "
Base Indenture
"), providing for the issuance from time to time of its senior unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (the "
Securities
"), to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 9.01(7) of the Base Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee may from time to time enter into one or more indentures supplemental thereto to establish the form or terms of Securities of a new series;
WHEREAS, Section 3.01 of the Base Indenture provides that the Company may enter into supplemental indentures to establish the terms and provisions of a series of Securities issued pursuant to the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Company has duly issued 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 in the aggregate principal amount of $800,000,000 (the "
Old Notes
") pursuant to its Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of October 20, 2000, as amended and supplemented by the third supplemental indenture, dated as of March 13, 2003, the sixth supplemental indenture, dated as of March 30, 2005 and the seventh supplemental indenture, dated as of August 11, 2005, and the Old Notes are outstanding on the date hereof;
WHEREAS, the Company wishes to exchange up to $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of a new series of senior unsecured notes representing debt obligations of the Company for a like principal amount of the Old Notes;
WHEREAS, the Company, pursuant to the foregoing authority, proposes in and by this First Supplemental Indenture (the "
Supplemental Indenture
" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "
Indenture
") to supplement the Base Indenture insofar as it will apply only to a series of 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2023 (the "
Notes
" or "
New Notes
") issued hereunder (and not to any other series); and
WHEREAS, all things necessary have been done to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered hereunder and duly issued by the Company, the valid obligations of the Company, and to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with their and its terms.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For and in consideration of the premises and the exchange of the Old Notes for the Notes by the holders thereof (each such holder of Notes, a "
Holder
"), it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders, as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 1
DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION
SECTION 1.01.
      
Definitions
. For all purposes of the Indenture relating to the series of Securities (consisting of the Notes) created hereby, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
(1)
   
the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(2)
   
each capitalized term that is used in this Supplemental Indenture but not defined herein shall have the meaning specified in the Base Indenture;
(3)
   
all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, or defined by Commission rule and not otherwise defined herein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(4)
   
all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP;
(5)
   
the word "including" (and with correlative meaning "include") means including, without limiting the generality of, any description preceding such term; and
(6)
   
the words "herein
,
"
"hereof"
and
"hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to the Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
"
Additional Common Stock
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.08(12).
"
Beneficial Owner
" shall be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the Commission under the Exchange Act.
"
Business Day
" means, with respect to any Note, any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close. If any Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date, Redemption Date, Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date of a Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment will be made on the next succeeding Business Day as if made on the date that the payment was otherwise due and no interest will accrue on such payment for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date, Redemption Date, Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as the case may be, to the date of that payment on the next succeeding Business Day.
"
Cash
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.05(6).
"
Cash Take-Over Transaction
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.08(12).
"
Closing Date
" means the date of this Supplemental Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
"
Common Equity
" of any Person means capital stock of such Person that is generally entitled to (1) vote in the election of directors of such Person or (2) if such Person is not a corporation, vote or otherwise participate in the selection of the governing body, partners, managers or others that will control the management or policies of such Person.
"
Common Stock
" means the Company's Common Stock, par value $.10 per share.
"
Company Notice
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.05(1).
"
Company Notice Date
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.05(1).
"
Continuing Director
" means a director who either was a member of the Company's Board of Directors on the date of the final offering memorandum relating to the Notes or who becomes a director of the Company subsequent to such date and whose election, appointment or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, is duly approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors on the Board of Directors of the Company at the time of such approval, either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement issued by the Company on behalf of the entire Board of Directors of the Company in which such individual is named as nominee for director.
"
Conversion Agent
" means the office or agency designated by the Company where Notes may be presented for conversion.
"
Conversion Date
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.06(2).
"
Conversion Price
" means $1,000 divided by the Conversion Rate.
"
Conversion Rate
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.06(1).
"
Defaulted Interest
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.11(3)(b).
"
Depositary
" has the meaning provided in Section 3.01.
"
Distributed Assets or Securities
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.07(3).
"
Effective Date
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.08(12).
"
Event of Default
" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01.
"
Fair Market Value
" means the amount which a willing buyer would pay a willing seller in an arm's length transaction.
"
Final Maturity
" or "
Final Maturity Date
" shall be March 15, 2023.
A "
Fundamental Change
" shall be deemed to have occurred at such time after the original issuance of the Notes as any of the following occurs: (a) any "person" or "group" within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, other than the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or any employee benefit plan of the Company or any such Subsidiary, files a
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule TO (or any other schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act) disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate Beneficial Owner of Common Equity of the Company representing more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's Common Equity; (b) consummation of any share exchange, consolidation or merger of the Company pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities or other property or any sale, lease or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person (other than one of the Company's Subsidiaries); , , that a transaction where the holders of more than 50% of all classes of the Company's Common Equity immediately prior to such transaction own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of a ll classes of Common Equity of the continuing or surviving corporation or transferee immediately after such event shall not be a Fundamental Change; or (c)Continuing Directors cease to constitute at least a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; , , that a Fundamental Change shall not be deemed to have occurred if either (I) the Sale Price per share of the Common Stock for any five Trading Days within the period of 10 consecutive Trading Days ending immediately before the later of the Fundamental Change or the announcement thereof shall equal or exceed 105% of the Conversion Price per share of Common Stock in effect on each of those Trading Days (the "") or (II) at least 90% of the consideration (excluding Cash payments for fractional shares) in the transaction or transactions constituting the Fundamental Change consists of shares of common stock with full voting rights traded on a national securities exchange or quoted on the NASDAQ National Market (or which shall be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with such Fundamental Change) (such securities being referred to as "") and as a result of such transaction or transactions such Notes become convertible into such Publicly Traded Securities (excluding Cash payments for fractional shares).
provided
however
provided
however
Trading Price Exception
Publicly Traded Securities
"
Fundamental Change Purchase Date
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.03.
"
Fundamental Change Purchase Notice
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.03(2).
"
Fundamental Change Purchase Price
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.03.
"
Global Securities
" means with respect to the Notes issued hereunder, a global note which is executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and which shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate Principal Amount of, all of the outstanding Notes or any portion thereof.
"
Holder
" has the meaning provided in the Recitals.
"
Indenture
" has the meaning provided in the Recitals.
"
Interest Payment Date
" has, with respect to any semiannual interest, the meaning specified in Section 2.09 of this Supplemental Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
"
Issue Date
" of any Note means the date on which the Note was originally issued or deemed issued as set forth on the face of the Note.
"
Market Price
" means the average of the Sale Prices of the Common Stock for the 20 Trading Day period ending on the third Business Day prior to the applicable Purchase Date, Fundamental Change Purchase Date or date of determination (if the third Business Day prior to the applicable Purchase Date, Fundamental Change Purchase Date or date of determination is a Trading Day, or if not, then on the last Trading Day prior to such third Business Day), appropriately adjusted to take into account the occurrence, during the period commencing on the first of such Trading Days during such 20 Trading Day period and ending on such Purchase Date, Fundamental Change Purchase Date or date of determination, of any event requiring an adjustment of the Conversion Rate under this Supplemental Indenture.
"
Notes
" or "
New Notes
" has the meaning provided in the Recitals.
"
Principal
", "
Principal Amount
" or "
principal
" of a debt security, including the Notes, means the principal of the security.
"
Publicly Traded Securities
" has the meaning provided in the definition of Fundamental Change in this Section 1.01.
"
Purchase Date
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.04(1).
"
Purchase Notice
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.04(1)(a).
"
Purchase Price
" has the meaning provided in paragraph 7 of the Notes.
"
Record Date
" means, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any Cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of Cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive such Cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).
"
Redemption Date
" when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture.
"
Redemption Price
" when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture.
"
Registration Rights Agreement
" has the meaning provided in Section 3.03.
"
Regular Record Date
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.09.
"
Restricted Common Stock Legend
" means the legend labeled as such, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B.
 
 
 
 
 
 
"
Sale Price
" of the Common Stock on any date means the closing sale price per share (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and average ask prices) on such date as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System.
If the Common Stock is not listed for trading on a United States national or regional securities exchange and not reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System on the relevant date, the Sale Price shall be the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market on the relevant date as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization.
If the Common Stock is not so quoted, the Sale Price shall be the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Company for this purpose.
"
Shelf Registration Statement
" has the meaning specified in Section 3.03.
"
Special Record Date
" has the meaning specified in Section 2.11(3)(b)(i).
"
Specified Percentage
" means 118.5% reduced by increments of % on each anniversary of the Issue Date, until such percentage reaches 110% on the Final Maturity Date.
"
Stated Maturity
" when used with respect to any Note or any installment of semiannual interest thereon, means the date specified in such Note as the fixed date on which an amount equal to the Principal Amount of such Note or such installment of semiannual interest is due and payable.
"
Stock Price
" has the meaning provided in Section 2.08(12).
"
Subsidiary
" means (i) a corporation or other entity of which a majority in voting power of the stock or other interests is owned by the Company, by a Subsidiary of the Company or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries of the Company or (ii) a partnership, the sole general partner of which is the Company or any Subsidiary.
"
Supplemental Indenture
" has the meaning provided in the Recitals.
"
Trading Day
" means (a) if the applicable security is listed, admitted for trading or quoted on the New York Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ National Market or another national security exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ National Market or another national security exchange is open for business or (b) if the applicable security is not so listed, admitted for trading or quoted, any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
 
 
 
 
 
 
"
Trustee
" means the person named as such in this Supplemental Indenture and, subject to the provisions of Article 6 of the Base Indenture, any successor to that person.
"
Uniform Commercial Code
" means the New York Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time.
ARTICLE 2
THE NEW NOTES
SECTION 2.01.
      
Creation of Series; Establishment of Form
. In accordance with Section 3.01 of the Base Indenture, there is hereby created a series of Securities under the Indenture entitled "4.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2023."
(1)
   
The form of the Notes, including the form of the certificate of authentication, is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
(2)
   
Subject to Section 3.01 of the Base Indenture and applicable law, the aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes which may be authenticated and delivered under this Supplemental Indenture is limited to $400,000,000.
(3)
   
The aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes shall be payable on the Final Maturity Date unless the Notes are earlier repaid or converted in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture. If any of the conditions allowing conversion of Notes by their Holder set forth in paragraph 9 of the Notes are met on the Final Maturity Date and the Sale Price of the Notes on the preceding Trading Day is greater than the Principal Amount, the Company may make payment of the Principal Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, on the next succeeding Business Day.
(4)
   
The Notes shall be issued at a Principal Amount of $1,000 per Note. Interest on the Notes is payable as provided in Sections 2.09 and 2.11 herein and paragraph 1 of the Notes.
(5)
   
All amounts payable in connection with the Notes shall be denominated and payable in the lawful currency of the United States.
(6)
   
The Notes shall be payable and may be presented for conversion, registration of transfer and exchange, without service charge, at the office of the Company maintained for such purpose in New York, New York, which shall initially be the office or agency of the Trustee.
(7)
   
The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Security Registrar or co-registrar or approve a change in the office through which any Paying Agent acts without notice, other than notice to the Trustee, except that the Company will maintain at least one Paying Agent in the State of New York, City of New York, Borough of Manhattan. The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Agent not a party to the Indenture. The agreement shall implement the provisions of the Indenture that relate to such Agent. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the name and address of any such Agent and any change in the address of such Agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Security Registrar and/or agent for service of notices and demands, the Trustee shall act as such Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Security
 
 
 
 
 
Registrar or agent for service of notices and demands. The Company may remove any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Security Registrar upon written notice to such Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Security Registrar and the Trustee;
provided
that no such removal shall become effective until (i) the acceptance of an appointment by a successor Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Security Registrar as evidenced by an appropriate agency agreement entered into by the Company and such successor and delivered to the Trustee or (ii) notification to the Trustee that the Trustee shall serve as such Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Security Registrar until the appointment of a successor Agent in accordance with clause (i) of this proviso. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Security Registrar or co-registrar.
(8)
   
Sections 10.09, 10.10 and 10.11 and Articles 12 and 13 of the Base Indenture shall have no force or effect in respect of, or application to, the Notes.
(1)
   
Right to Redeem; Notice to Trustee, Paying Agent and Holders
. The Company, at its option, may redeem the Notes in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of the Notes. If the Company elects to redeem Notes pursuant to paragraph 5 of the Notes, it shall notify in writing the Trustee, Paying Agent and each Holder of Notes to be redeemed, as provided in Section 2.02(4).
(2)
   
Fewer Than All Outstanding Notes to Be Redeemed
. If fewer than all of the outstanding Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select the Notes to be redeemed in Principal Amounts of $1,000 or integral multiples thereof. In the case that the Trustee shall select the Notes to be redeemed, the Trustee may effectuate such selection by lot, pro rata, or by any other method that the Trustee considers fair and appropriate. The Trustee will make such selection promptly following receipt of the notice of redemption from the Company provided pursuant to Section 2.02(4).
(3)
   
Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed
. If any Notes selected for partial redemption are thereafter surrendered for conversion in part before termination of the conversion right with respect to the portion of the Notes so selected, the converted portion of such Notes shall be deemed (so far as may be), solely for purposes of determining the aggregate Principal Amount of Notes to be redeemed by the Company, to be the portion selected for redemption. Notes which have been converted during a selection of Notes to be redeemed may be treated by the Trustee as outstanding for the purpose of such selection. Nothing in this Section 2.02(3) shall affect the right of any Holder to convert any Notes pursuant to Sections 2.06, 2.07 and 2.08 before the termination of the conversion right with respect thereto.
(4)
   
Notice of Redemption
. At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a Redemption Date, the Company shall mail or cause to be mailed a notice of redemption by first-class mail to the Trustee, the Paying Agent and each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at such Holder's address as it appears on the Note register.
The notice shall identify the Notes to be redeemed and shall state:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)
   
the Redemption Price and the amount of interest, if any, payable on the Redemption Date;
(c)
   
the then current Conversion Rate;
(d)
   
the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent;
(e)
   
that Notes called for redemption must be presented and surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price;
(f)
    
that the Notes called for redemption may be converted at any time before the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Redemption Date;
(g)
   
that Holders who wish to convert Notes must comply with the procedures in paragraph 9 of the Notes;
(h)
   
that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Redemption Price, interest, if any, on the Notes called for redemption will cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date, and the only remaining right of the Holder will be to receive payment of the Redemption Price upon presentation and surrender to the Paying Agent of the Notes;
(i)
    
if fewer than all the outstanding Notes are to be redeemed, the certificate number and the Principal Amounts of the particular Notes to be redeemed; and
(j)    the CUSIP and ISIN number or numbers for the Notes called for redemption.
At the Company's request, made at least five Business Days prior to the date upon which such notice is to be mailed, the Paying Agent shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's expense.
(5)
   
Effect of Notice of Redemption
. Once notice of redemption is mailed, Notes called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price, except for Notes that are converted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.06, 2.07 and 2.08. Upon presentation and surrender to the Paying Agent, Notes called for redemption shall be paid at the Redemption Price as defined in paragraph 5 of the Notes.
(6)
  
Sinking Fund
. There shall be no sinking fund provided for the Notes.
(7)
   
Deposit of Redemption Price
. On or before 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust) an amount of money sufficient to pay the aggregate Redemption Price of, and any accrued and unpaid interest with respect to, all the Notes to be redeemed on that date other than the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption which on or prior thereto have been delivered by the Company to the Security Registrar for cancellation or have been converted. The Trustee and Paying Agent shall, as promptly as practicable, return to the Company any money not required for that purpose because of conversion of the Notes in accordance with the provisions of
 
 
 
 
 
Sections 2.06, 2.07 and 2.08. If such money is then held by the Company or a Subsidiary in trust and is not required for such purpose, it shall be discharged from such trust.
The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of the Redemption Price and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. If the Company or an Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by the Paying Agent. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money delivered to the Trustee.
SECTION 2.03.
      
Purchase at the Option of the Holder Upon a Fundamental Change
. If a Fundamental Change shall occur at any time prior to March 15, 2012, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to purchase any or all of such Holder's Notes on the date that is 35 Business Days after the date of the Company Notice of the occurrence of such Fundamental Change (subject to extension to comply with applicable law, as provided in Section 2.05(4)) (the "
Fundamental Change Purchase Date
"). The Notes shall be repurchased in integral multiples of $1,000 of the Principal Amount. The Company shall purchase such Notes at a price (the "
Fundamental Change Purchase Price
") equal to the Principal Amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Fundamental Change Purchase Date. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the portion of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price that constitutes accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes, shall be paid in Cash. No Notes may be repurchased at the option of the Holders due to a Fundamental Change if there has occurred and is continuing an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default that is cured by the payment of the purchase price of all such Notes).
(1)
   
Notice of Fundamental Change
. The Company, or at its request (which must be received by the Paying Agent at least three Business Days (or such lesser period as agreed to by the Paying Agent) prior to the date the Paying Agent is requested to give such notice as described below), the Paying Agent in the name of and at the expense of the Company, shall mail to all Holders and the Trustee a Company Notice of the occurrence of a Fundamental Change and of the purchase right arising as a result thereof, including the information required by Section 2.05(1) hereof, on or before the 20 day after the occurrence of such Fundamental Change. The Company shall promptly furnish to the Paying Agent a copy of such Company Notice.
th
(2)
   
Exercise of Option
. For a Note to be so purchased at the option of the Holder, the Paying Agent must receive such Note duly endorsed for transfer, together with a written notice of purchase (a "
Fundamental Change Purchase Notice
") and the form entitled "Form of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice" on the reverse thereof duly completed, on or before the 35 day after the date of the Company Notice of the occurrence of such Fundamental Change, subject to extension to comply with applicable law. The Fundamental Change Purchase Notice shall state:
th
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)
   
if certificated, the certificate numbers of the Notes which the Holder shall deliver to be purchased;
(b)
   
the portion of the Principal Amount of the Notes which the Holder shall deliver to be purchased, which portion must be $1,000 in Principal Amount or an integral multiple thereof;
(c)
   
that such Notes shall be purchased as of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 7 of the Notes and in this Supplemental Indenture; and
(d)
   
if the Company elects, pursuant to a Company Notice, to pay the Fundamental Change Purchase Price to be paid, in whole or in part, in Common Stock but such portion of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price shall ultimately be payable to such Holder in Cash because any of the conditions to the payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price in Common Stock are not satisfied prior to or on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as set forth herein, whether such Holder elects (x) to withdraw such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice as to some or all of the Notes to which such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice relates (stating the Principal Amount and certificate numbers of the Notes as to which such withdrawal shall relate), or (y) to receive Cash in respect of the entire Fundamental Change Purchase Price for all Notes (or portions thereof) to which such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice relates. If a Holder, in such Holder's Fundamental Change Purchase Notice (and in any written notice of withdrawal of a portion of a Holder's Notes previously submitted for purchase pursuant to a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, the portion that remains subject to the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice), fails to indicate such Holder's choice with respect to the foregoing election, such Holder shall be deemed to have elected to receive Cash in respect of all Notes subject to such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in the circumstances described in the preceding sentence.
(3)
   
Procedures
. The Company shall purchase from a Holder, pursuant to this Section 2.03, Notes if the Principal Amount of such Notes is $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000 if so requested by such Holder.
Any purchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2.03 shall be consummated by the delivery of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price to be received by the Holder promptly following the later of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date or the time of book-entry transfer or delivery of the Notes.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice contemplated by this Section 2.03 shall have the right at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Fundamental Change Purchase Date to withdraw such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice (in whole or in part) by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 2.05(2).
The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Fundamental Change Purchase Notice or written notice of withdrawal thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
On or before 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust) Cash or Common Stock sufficient to pay the aggregate Fundamental Change Purchase Price of the Notes to be purchased pursuant to this Section 2.03. Payment by the Paying Agent of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price for such Notes shall be made promptly following the later of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date or the time of book-entry transfer or delivery of such Notes. If the Company is delivering Common Stock, the Company shall deliver to each Holder entitled to receive Common Stock, through the Paying Agent, a certificate for the number of full shares of Common Stock, as applicable, issuable in payment of such Fundamental Change Purchase Price and Cash in lieu of any fractional interests. The Person in whose name the certificate for Common Stock is registered shall be treated as a holder of record following the Fundamental Change Purchase Date. Subject to Section 2.07 herein, no payment or adjustment shall be made for dividends on the Common Stock the record date for which occurred on or prior to the Fundamental Change Purchase Date. If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, Cash or Common Stock sufficient to pay the Fundamental Change Purchase Price of such Notes on the Business Day following the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, then, on and after such Fundamental Change Purchase Date, such Notes shall cease to be outstanding and interest on such Notes shall cease to accrue, whether or not book-entry transfer of such Notes is made or such Notes are delivered to the Paying Agent, and all other rights of the Holder shall terminate (other than the right to receive the Fundamental Change Purchase Price upon delivery or transfer of the Notes). If a Holder is paid in Common Stock, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on such issue of shares of Common Stock. However, the Holder shall pay any such tax which is due because the Holder requests the shares of Common Stock to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. The Paying Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Paying Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which shall be due because the shares of Common Stock are to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. Nothing herein shall preclude any withholding tax required by law.
The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all Cash or Common Stock held by the Paying Agent for the payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. If the Company or an Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the Cash and Common Stock held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to deliver all Cash or Common Stock held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by the Paying Agent. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the Cash or Common Stock delivered to the Trustee.
All questions as to the validity, eligibility (including time of receipt) and acceptance of any Notes for redemption shall be determined by the Company, whose determination shall be final and binding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
   
On each of March 15, 2012, March 15, 2015 and March 15, 2018 (each, a "
Purchase Date
"), at the applicable Purchase Price specified in paragraph 7 of the Notes, a Holder shall have the option to require the Company to purchase any outstanding Notes, upon:
(a)
   
delivery to the Paying Agent by the Holder of a written notice of purchase (a "
Purchase Notice
") at any time from the opening of business on the date that is 20 Business Days prior to a Purchase Date until the close of business on the fifth Business Day prior to such Purchase Date, stating:
(b)
   
delivery or book-entry transfer of such Notes to the Paying Agent prior to, on or after the Purchase Date (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent, such delivery or transfer being a condition to receipt by the Holder of the Purchase Price therefor;
provided
,
however
, that such Purchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 2.04 only if the Notes so delivered or transferred to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof in the related Purchase Notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2)
   
The Company shall purchase from a Holder, pursuant to this Section 2.04, Notes if the Principal Amount of such Notes is $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000 if so requested by such Holder.
(3)
   
Any purchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2.04 shall be consummated by the delivery of the Purchase Price to be received by the Holder promptly following the later of the Purchase Date or the time of book-entry transfer or delivery of the Notes.
(4)
   
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Purchase Notice contemplated by this Section 2.04 shall have the right at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Purchase Date to withdraw such Purchase Notice (in whole or in part) by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 2.05(2).
(5)
   
The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Purchase Notice or written notice of withdrawal thereof.
(6)
   
On or before 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Purchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust) Cash or Common Stock sufficient to pay the aggregate Purchase Price of the Notes to be purchased pursuant to this Section 2.04. Payment by the Paying Agent of the Purchase Price for such Notes shall be made promptly following the later of the Purchase Date or the time of book-entry transfer or delivery of such Notes. If the Company is delivering Common Stock, the Company shall deliver to each Holder entitled to receive Common Stock, through the Paying Agent, a certificate for the number of full shares of Common Stock, as applicable, issuable in payment of such Purchase Price and Cash in lieu of any fractional interests. The Person in whose name the certificate for Common Stock is registered shall be treated as a holder of record following the Purchase Date. Subject to Section 2.07 herein, no payment or adjustment shall be made for dividends on the Common Stock the record date for which occurred on or prior to the Purchase Date. If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, Cash or Common Stock sufficient to pay the Purchase Price of such Notes on the Business Day following the Purchase Date, then, on and after such Purchase Date, such Notes shall cease to be outstanding and interest on such Notes shall cease to accrue, whether or not book-entry transfer of such Notes is made or such Notes are delivered to the Paying Agent, and all other rights of the Holder shall terminate (other than the right to receive the Purchase Price upon delivery or transfer of the Notes). If a Holder is paid in Common Stock, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on such issue of shares of Common Stock. However, the Holder shall pay any such tax which is due because the Holder requests the shares of Common Stock to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. The Paying Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Paying Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which shall be due because the shares of Common Stock are to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. Nothing herein shall preclude any withholding tax required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(7) The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all Cash or Common Stock held by the Paying Agent for the payment of the Purchase Price and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. If the Company or an Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the Cash or Common Stock held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to deliver all Cash or Common Stock held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by the Paying Agent. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the Cash or Common Stock delivered to the Trustee.
(8) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the portion of the Purchase Price that constitutes accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes, shall be paid in Cash.
 
SECTION 2.05.
      
Further Conditions and Procedures for Purchase at the Option of the Holder Upon a Fundamental Change and Purchase of Notes at the Option of the Holder
.
(1)
     
Notice of Purchase Date or Fundamental Change
. The Company shall send notices (each, a "
Company Notice
") to the Holders (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law) at their addresses shown in the Note register maintained by the Security Registrar, and delivered to the Trustee and Paying Agent, not less than 20 Business Days prior to each Purchase Date, or on or before the 20 day after the occurrence of the Fundamental Change, as the case may be (each such date of delivery, a "
th
Company Notice Date
"). Each Company Notice shall include a form of Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice to be completed by a Holder and shall state:
(a)
   
the applicable Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price, excluding accrued and unpaid interest, Conversion Rate at the time of such notice and, to the extent known at the time of such notice, the amount of interest, if any, that will be payable with respect to the Notes on the applicable Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date;
(b)
   
the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent;
(c)
   
that Notes must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment of the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price;
(d)
   
that Notes as to which a Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been given may be converted only if the applicable Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture;
(e)
   
that the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price for any Notes as to which a Purchase Notice or a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, as applicable, has been given and not withdrawn shall be paid by the Paying Agent promptly following the later of the Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as applicable, or the time of book-entry transfer or delivery of such Notes;
 
 
 
 
 
 
(f)
    
whether the Company will pay the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price, as the case may be, in Cash, in Common Stock or in a combination thereof (specifying the percentages of each) and, if Common Stock is to be issued the method for calculating the Market Price of the Common Stock;
(g)
   
the procedures the Holder must follow under Sections 2.03 or 2.04, as applicable, and Section 2.05;
(h)
   
briefly, the conversion rights of the Notes;
(i)
    
that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price on Notes covered by any Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, as applicable, interest will cease to accrue on and after the Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as applicable;
(j)
   
the CUSIP or ISIN number of the Notes; and
(k)
   
the procedures for withdrawing a Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice.
Simultaneously with providing such Company Notice, the Company will publish a notice containing the information in such Company Notice in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or publish such information on its then existing Web site or through such other public medium as it may use at the time.
At the Company's request, made at least five Business Days prior to the date upon which such notice is to be mailed, and at the Company's expense, the Paying Agent shall give the Company Notice in the Company's name;
provided
,
however
, that, in all cases, the text of the Company Notice shall be prepared by the Company.
(2)
   
Effect of Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice; Effect of Event of Default.
Upon receipt from the Company of the Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice specified in Section 2.04(l) or Section 2.03(2), as applicable, the Holder of the Notes in respect of which such Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, as the case may be, was given shall (unless such Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price with respect to such Notes. Such Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price shall be paid by the Paying Agent to such Holder promptly following the later of (x) the Purchase Date or the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as the case may be, with respect to such Notes (provided the conditions in Section 2.04(l) or Section 2.03(2), as applicable, have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery or book-entry transfer of such Notes to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 2.04(l) or Section 2.03(2), as applicable. Notes in respect of which a Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, as the case may be, has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted for shares of Common Stock on or after the date of the delivery of such Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, as the case may be, unless such Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, as the case may be, has first been validly withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, as the case may be, may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent at any time prior to 5:00 p.m. New York City time on the Business Day prior to the Purchase Date or the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as the case may be, to which it relates specifying:
(a)
   
if certificated, the certificate number of the Notes in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, or, if not certificated, the written notice of withdrawal must comply with appropriate Depositary procedures;
(b)
   
the Principal Amount of the Notes with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted; and
(c)
   
the Principal Amount, if any, of such Notes which remains subject to the original Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, as the case may be, and which has been or shall be delivered for purchase by the Company.
There shall be no purchase of any Notes pursuant to Section 2.03 or Section 2.04 if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing (other than a default that is cured by the payment of the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price, as the case may be). The Paying Agent shall promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Notes (x) with respect to which a Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, as the case may be, has been withdrawn in compliance with this Supplemental Indenture, or (y) held by it during the continuance of an Event of Default (other than a default that is cured by the payment of the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price, as the case may be) in which case, upon such return, the Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
(3)
   
Notes Purchased in Part
. Any Notes that are to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Notes, without service charge, a new Note or Notes, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate Principal Amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the Principal Amount of the Notes so surrendered which is not purchased or redeemed.
(4)
   
Covenant to Comply with Securities Laws Upon Purchase of Notes
. In connection with any offer to purchase Notes under Sections 2.03 or 2.04 hereof, the Company shall, to the extent applicable, (a) comply with Rules 13e-4 and 14e-1 (and any successor provisions thereto) under the Exchange Act, if applicable; (b) file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) under the Exchange Act, if applicable; and (c) otherwise comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under Sections 2.03 and 2.04 to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified in Sections 2.03 and 2.04.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(5)
   
Repayment to the Company
. The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash or property that remains unclaimed as provided in paragraph 13 of the Notes, together with interest that the Trustee or Paying Agent, as the case may be, has agreed to pay, if any, held by them for the payment of a Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price, as the case may be;
provided
,
however
, that to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash or property deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 2.03(3) or 2.04(6), as applicable, exceeds the aggregate Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price, as the case may be, of the Notes or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to purchase as of the Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as the case may be, then promptly on and after the Business Day following the Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as the case may be, the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return any such excess to the Company together with interest that the Trustee or Paying Agent, as the case may be, has agreed to pay, if any.
(6)
   
Company's Right to Elect Manner of Payment of Purchase Price
. Subject to Sections 2.03 and 2.04(8), the Company may elect with respect to the March 15, 2015 or the March 15, 2018 Purchase Dates, or with respect to any Fundamental Change Purchase Date, to pay the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price in respect of the Notes to be purchased pursuant to this Indenture as of such Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date, (a) in U.S. legal tender ("
Cash
") or (b) Common Stock (by the issuance of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the amount of Cash to which the Holders would have been entitled had the Company elected to pay all or such specified percentage, as the case may be, of the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price of such Notes in Cash by (y) the Market Price of a share of Common Stock), or (c) in any combination of Cash and Common Stock, subject to the conditions set forth herein. The Company shall pay Cash for fractional interests in Common Stock pursuant to Section 2.05(8). For purposes of determining the existence of potential fractional interests, all Notes subject to purchase by the Company held by a Holder shall be considered together (no matter how many separate certificates are to be presented). Each Holder whose Notes are purchased pursuant to this Section 2.05 shall receive the same percentage of Cash and/or Common Stock in payment of the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price for such Notes, except (a) as provided herein with regard to the payment of Cash in lieu of fractional interests in Common Stock and (b) in the event that the Company is unable to purchase the Notes of a Holder or Holders for Common Stock because any necessary qualifications or registrations of the Common Stock under applicable federal or state securities laws cannot be obtained, the Company may purchase the Notes of such Holder or Holders for Cash.
(7)
   
Officers' Certificate
. At least five Business Days before the Company Notice Date, the Company shall deliver an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee (
provided
, that at the Company's option, the matters to be addressed in such Officers' Certificate may be divided among two such certificates) specifying:
(a)
  
the manner of payment selected by the Company;
(b)
   
if the Company elects to pay the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price, or a specified percentage thereof, in Common Stock pursuant to Section 2.05(6),
 
 
 
 
 
that the conditions to such manner of payment set forth in Section 2.05(9) herein have been or shall be complied with; and
(c)
   
whether the Company desires the Trustee to give the Company Notice required by Section 2.05(1) herein.
(8)
   
Fractional Shares
. The Company shall not issue a fractional share of Common Stock in payment of the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price. Instead the Company shall pay Cash for the current market value of the fractional share. The current market value of a fraction of a share shall be determined by multiplying the Market Price by such fraction and rounding the product to the nearest whole cent. It is understood that if a Holder elects to have more than one Note purchased, the number of shares of Common Stock shall be based on the aggregate amount of Notes to be purchased.
(9)
   
Conditions to Exercise of Right to Issue Common Stock
. The Company's right to exercise its election to purchase the Notes pursuant to Section 2.03 or Section 2.04 herein through the issuance of shares of Common Stock shall be conditioned upon:
(a)
   
the Company having given timely written notice in accordance with Section 2.05(1) herein of its election to purchase all or a specified percentage of the Notes with Common Stock as provided herein;
(b)
 
the Common Stock being traded on a national securities exchange or quoted on the NASDAQ National Market System at such time;
(c)
   
(i) (A) the registration of the shares of Common Stock to be issued in respect of the payment of the specified percentage of the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price under the Securities Act of 1933 or (B) the issuance of the shares of Common Stock in a transaction which is exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and which will not result in such shares of Common Stock being deemed "restricted securities" as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 or otherwise and (ii) the shares of Common Stock being registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(d)
   
any necessary qualification or registration under applicable state securities laws or the availability of an exemption from such qualification and registration; and
(e)
   
the receipt by the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate (
provided
, that at the Company's option, the matters to be addressed in such Officers' Certificate may be divided among two such certificates) and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that (i) the terms of the issuance of the Common Stock are in conformity with this Supplemental Indenture and (ii) the shares of Common Stock to be issued by the Company in payment of the specified percentage of the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price in respect of Notes have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered pursuant to the terms of this Supplemental Indenture in payment of the specified percentage of the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price in respect of Notes, shall be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, and, to the best of such counsel's knowledge, free from preemptive rights, and in the case of such Officers' Certificate, stating that conditions (a), (b), (c) and (d) above have been satisfied and, in the case of such Opinion of Counsel, stating that conditions (c) and (d) above have been satisfied.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such Officers' Certificate shall also set forth the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued for each $1,000 Principal Amount of Notes and the Sale Price of a share of Common Stock on each Trading Day during the period during which the Market Price is calculated and ending on the applicable Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date. The Company may elect to pay the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price (or any portion thereof) in Common Stock only if the information necessary to calculate the Market Price is reported in a daily newspaper of national circulation. If any of the conditions set forth in this Section 2.05(9) are not satisfied with respect to a Holder or Holders prior to the close of business on the Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date, and the Company elected to purchase the Notes to be purchased as of such Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date pursuant to Section 2.03 or Section 2.04 herein through the issuance of shares of Common Stock, the Company shall pay the entire Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price in respect of such Notes of such Holder or Holders in Cash. The Company shall not change the form or components or percentages of components of consideration to be paid for the Notes once it has given the Company Notice, except as described in the previous sentence.
(10)
        
Public Notice
. Upon determination of the actual number of shares of Common Stock which the Holder of each $1,000 Principal Amount of the Notes shall receive, the Company shall publish such determination in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or on the Company's then existing Web site or through such other public medium as the Company may use at that time.
(1)
   
Right to Convert
. A Holder may convert its Notes for Common Stock at any time during which the conditions stated in paragraph 9 of the Notes are met. The number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a Note per $1,000 Principal Amount (the "
Conversion Rate
") shall be that set forth in paragraph 9 in the Notes, subject to adjustment as herein set forth.
A Holder may convert a portion of the Principal Amount of Notes if the portion is $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000.
(2)
   
Conversion Procedures
. To convert Notes, a Holder must satisfy the requirements in paragraph 9 of the Notes. The date on which the Holder satisfies all those requirements is the conversion date (the "
Conversion Date
"). As soon as practicable, but in no event later than the fifth Business Day following the Conversion Date, the Company shall deliver to the Holder, through the Conversion Agent, a certificate for the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion and cash in lieu of any fractional share determined pursuant to Section 2.06(3). The Person in whose name the certificate is registered shall be treated as a stockholder of record on and after the Conversion Date;
provided
,
however
, that no surrender of Notes on any date when the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed shall be effective to constitute the Person or Persons entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock upon such conversion as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock on such date, but such surrender shall be effective to constitute the Person or Persons entitled to receive such shares of Common Stock as the record holder or holders thereof for all purposes at the close of business on the next succeeding day on which such stock transfer books are open; such
 
 
 
 
 
conversion shall be at the Conversion Rate in effect on the date that such Notes shall have been surrendered for conversion, as if the stock transfer books of the Company had not been closed. Upon conversion of Notes, such Person shall no longer be a Holder of such Notes.
No payment or adjustment shall be made for dividends on or other distributions with respect to any Common Stock except as provided in Section 2.07 or as otherwise provided in this Indenture.
On conversion of Notes, that portion of accrued interest with respect to the converted Notes shall not be canceled, extinguished or forfeited, but rather shall be deemed to be paid in full to the Holder thereof through delivery of the Common Stock (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares) in exchange for the Notes being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof, and the Fair Market Value of such shares of Common Stock (together with any such cash payment in lieu of fractional shares) shall be treated as issued, to the extent thereof, first in exchange for interest accrued and unpaid through the Conversion Date, and the balance, if any, of such Fair Market Value of such Common Stock (and any such cash payment) shall be treated as issued in exchange for the Principal Amount of the Notes being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof.
If a Holder converts more than one Note at the same time, the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion shall be based on the total Principal Amount of the Notes converted.
Upon surrender of a Note that is converted in part, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder, a new Note in an authorized denomination equal in Principal Amount to the unconverted portion of the Note surrendered.
If the last day on which Notes may be converted is a legal holiday in a place where a Conversion Agent is located, the Notes may be surrendered to that Conversion Agent on the next succeeding day that it is not a legal holiday.
(3)
   
Cash Payments in Lieu of Fractional Shares
. The Company shall not issue a fractional share of Common Stock upon conversion of Notes. Instead the Company shall deliver cash for the current market value of the fractional share. The current market value of a fractional share shall be determined to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share by multiplying the Sale Price of a full share of Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Conversion Date by the fractional amount and rounding the product to the nearest whole cent.
(4)
   
Taxes on Conversion
. If a Holder converts Notes, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on the issue of shares of Common Stock upon the conversion. However, the Holder shall pay any such tax which is due because the Holder requests the shares to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. The Conversion Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Conversion Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which shall be due because the shares are to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. Nothing herein shall preclude any withholding tax required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(5)
   
Covenants of the Company
. The Company shall, prior to issuance of any Notes hereunder, and from time to time as may be necessary, reserve out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to permit the conversion of the Notes.
All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Notes shall be newly issued shares or treasury shares, shall be duly and validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable and shall be free from preemptive rights and free of any lien or adverse claim.
The Company shall endeavor promptly to comply with all federal and state securities laws regulating the order and delivery of shares of Common Stock upon the conversion of Notes, if any, and shall cause to have listed or quoted all such shares of Common Stock on each United States national securities exchange or over-the-counter or other domestic market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted.
SECTION 2.07.
      
Adjustments to Conversion Rate
. The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Company as follows:
(1)
   
In case the Company shall (a) pay a dividend, or make a distribution, exclusively in shares of its Common Stock or other capital stock, on its Common Stock; (b) subdivide its outstanding Common Stock into a greater number of shares; (c) combine its outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares; or (d) reclassify its Common Stock, the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the effective date for the adjustment pursuant to this Section 2.07(1), as described below, shall be adjusted so that the Holder of any Notes thereafter surrendered for conversion shall be entitled to receive the number of shares of Common Stock of the Company which such Holder would have owned or have been entitled to receive after the happening of any of the events described above had such Notes been converted immediately prior to such effective date. If any dividend or distribution of the type described in clause (a) above is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. An adjustment made pursuant to this Section 2.07(1) shall become effective immediately after the applicable Record Date in the case of a dividend and shall become effective immediately after the applicable effective date in the case of subdivision, combination or reclassification of the Company's Common Stock.
(2)
   
In case the Company shall issue rights or warrants to all holders of its Common Stock entitling them (for a period expiring within 60 days after the date of issuance of such rights or warrants) to subscribe for or purchase Common Stock at a price per share less than the Market Price per share of Common Stock on the Record Date fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after such Record Date shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the Conversion Rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after such Record Date by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such Record Date plus the number of additional shares of Common Stock offered for subscription or purchase, and of which the denominator shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such Record Date plus the number of shares which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares so offered would purchase at such Market Price. Such adjustment
 
 
 
 
 
shall be made successively whenever any such rights or warrants are issued, and shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the Record Date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants. To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered after the expiration of such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. If such rights or warrants are not so issued, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such Record Date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants had not been fixed. In determining whether any rights or warrants entitle the holders to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at less than such Market Price, and in determining the aggregate offering price of such shares of Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Company for such rights or warrants, the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Board of Directors.
(3)
   
In case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all holders of its Common Stock (excluding any distribution in connection with the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary) any evidences of its indebtedness or assets or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any of its securities (excluding those referred to in Section 2.07(2) or (4) hereof) (any of the foregoing hereinafter in this Section 2.07(3) called the "
Distributed Assets or Securities
") in an aggregate amount that, combined together with the aggregate amount of any other such distributions to all holders of its Common Stock made within the 12 months preceding the date of payment of such distribution, and in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to this Section 2.07(3) has been made, exceeds 15% of the product of the Market Price on the Trading Day immediately preceding the declaration of such distribution and the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such date, then, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the Conversion Rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the Record Date mentioned below by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the Market Price per share of the Common Stock on such Record Date, and the denominator shall be the Market Price per share of the Common Stock on such Record Date less the Fair Market Value on such Record Date (as determined by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive, and described in a certificate filed with the Trustee and the Paying Agent) of the Distributed Assets or Securities so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock. Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the Record Date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution;
provided
,
however
, that, if (a) the Fair Market Value of the portion of the Distributed Assets or Securities so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than the Market Price of the Common Stock on the Record Date or (b) the Market Price of the Common Stock on the Record Date is greater than the Fair Market Value of such Distributed Assets or Securities by less than $1.00, then, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, adequate provision shall be made so that each Holder shall have the right to receive upon conversion, in addition to the shares of Common Stock, the kind and amount of assets, debt securities, or rights, warrants or options the Holder would have received had such Holder converted such Notes immediately prior to such Record Date. In the event that such distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such distribution had not been declared.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(4)
   
In case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of outstanding shares of its Common Stock distributions consisting of Cash, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the Record Date for such distribution by a fraction of which: (A) the numerator shall be the Market Price per share of Common Stock on such Record Date, and (B) the denominator of which shall be equal to the Market Price per share of Common Stock on such Record Date less the amount per share of such distribution. Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the Record Date for such distribution.
(5)
   
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Section 2.07(2), (3) or (4), no adjustment shall be made thereunder for any distribution described therein if the Company makes proper provision so that each Holder who converts its Notes (or any portion thereof) after the Record Date for such distribution shall be entitled to receive upon such conversion, in addition to the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, the amount and kind of assets or securities that such Holder would have been entitled to receive if such Holder had, immediately prior to such Record Date, converted such Notes for Common Stock;
provided
that, with respect to any Distributed Assets or Securities that are convertible, exchangeable or exercisable, the foregoing provision shall only apply to the extent (and so long as) the Distributed Assets or Securities receivable upon conversion of such Notes would be convertible, exchangeable or exercisable, as applicable, without any loss of rights or privileges for a period of at least 60 days following conversion of such Notes.
(6)
   
Upon conversion of the Notes, the Holders shall receive, in addition to the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, the rights issued under any future stockholder rights plan the Company implements (notwithstanding the occurrence of an event causing such rights to separate from the Common Stock at or prior to the time of conversion). No adjustment pursuant to this Section 2.07 shall be made in connection with such stockholder rights plans.
(7)
   
For purposes of this Section 2.07, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock. The Company shall not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company.
(1)   . No adjustment in the Conversion Price need be made unless the adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% in the Conversion Price then in effect that any adjustment that would otherwise be required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. Except as stated in Section 2.07, the Conversion Rate will not be adjusted for the issuance of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock or carrying the right to purchase any of the foregoing. Any adjustments that are made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. All calculations under Sections 2.06, 2.07 and this Section 2.08 shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share, as the case may be.
Calculation Methodology
provided
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2)   . No adjustment to the Conversion Price need be made:
When No Adjustment Required
(a)   upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on securities of the Company and the investment of additional optional amounts in shares of Common Stock under any plan;
(b)   upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(c)   upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date the Notes were first issued;
(d)  for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock; or
(e)  for accrued and unpaid interest.
To the extent the Notes become convertible into cash, assets, property or securities (other than capital stock of the Company), no adjustment shall be made thereafter as to the cash, assets, property or such securities. Interest shall not accrue on such cash.
(3)   . Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted, the Company shall promptly mail to Holders a notice of the adjustment. The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent such notice. The certificate shall, absent manifest error, be conclusive evidence that the adjustment is correct. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any duty or responsibility with respect to any such certificate except to exhibit the same to any Holder desiring inspection thereof.
Notice of Adjustment
(4)   . The Company may make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in addition to those required by Section 2.07, as the Board of Directors considers to be advisable to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock (or rights to acquire stock) or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Company may from time to time increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period of time if the period is at least 20 days, the increase is irrevocable during the period and the Board of Directors shall have made a determination that such increase would be in the best interests of the Company, which determination shall be conclusive. Whenever the Conversion Rate is so increased, the Company shall mail to Holders and file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent a notice of such increase. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any duty or responsibility with respect to any such notice except to exhibit the same to any Holder desiring inspection thereof. The Company shall mail the notice at least 15 days before the date the increased Conversion Rate takes affect. The notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period it shall be in effect.
Voluntary Increase
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)   the Company shall declare a dividend (or any other distribution) on its Common Stock that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 2.07;
(b)   the Company shall authorize the granting to all or substantially all the holders of its Common Stock of rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any share of any class or any other rights or warrants;
(c)   of any reclassification or reorganization of the Common Stock of the Company (other than a subdivision or combination of its outstanding Common Stock, or a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value), or of any consolidation or merger to which the Company is a party and for which approval of any shareholders of the Company is required, or of the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
(d)   of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the Company, the Company shall cause to be filed with the Trustee and to be mailed to each Holder at its address appearing on the Note register, as promptly as possible but in any event at least 15 days prior to the applicable date hereinafter specified, a notice stating (x) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend, distribution or rights or warrants, or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of Common Stock of record to be entitled to such dividend, distribution, or rights or warrants are to be determined or (y) the date on which such reclassification, reorganization, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up is expected to become effective or occur, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their Common Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such reclassification, reorganization, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up. Failure to give such notice, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of such dividend, distribution, reclassification, reorganization, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up.
(6)   . If any of the following events occur, namely (a) any reclassification or change of outstanding shares of Common Stock (other than a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value, or as a result of a subdivision or combination); (b) any consolidation, merger, combination or binding share exchange of the Company with another corporation as a result of which holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive stock, securities or other property or assets (including cash) with respect to or in exchange for such Common Stock; or (c) any sale or conveyance of the properties and assets of the Company as, or substantially as, an entirety to any other corporation as a result of which holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive stock, securities or other property or assets (including cash) with respect to or in exchange for such Common Stock, then the Company or the successor or purchasing corporation, as the case may be, shall execute with the Trustee a supplemental indenture, providing that each Note shall be convertible into the kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities or property or assets (including cash) receivable upon such
Effect of Reclassification, Consolidation, Merger, Binding Share Exchange or Sale
 
 
 
 
 
reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, combination, binding share exchange, sale or conveyance by a holder of a number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such Note immediately prior to such reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, combination, binding share exchange, sale or conveyance. Such supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Section 2.08(6).
The Company shall cause notice of the execution of such supplemental indenture to be mailed to each Holder, at its address appearing on the Note register, within 20 days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of such supplemental indenture.
The above provisions of this Section shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications, changes, consolidations, mergers, combinations, binding share exchanges, sales and conveyances.
If this Section 2.08(6) applies to any event or occurrence, Section 2.07 shall not apply.
(7)   . The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder to either calculate the Conversion Rate or determine whether any facts exist which may require any adjustment of the Conversion Rate, or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed, or herein or in any supplemental indenture provided to be employed, in making the same and shall be protected in relying upon an Officers' Certificate with respect to the same. The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any securities or property, which may at any time be issued or delivered upon the conversion of any Notes and the Trustee and any other Conversion Agent make no representations with respect thereto. Subject to the provisions of Article 6 of the Base Indenture, neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be responsible for any failure of the Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock or stock certificates or other securities or property or cash upon the surrender of any Notes for the purpose of conversion or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Company contained in this Section. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any responsibility to determine the correctness of any provisions contained in any supplemental indenture entered into pursuant to Section 2.08(6) relating either to the kind or amount of shares of stock or securities or property (including cash) receivable by Holders upon the conversion of their Notes after any event referred to in such Section 2.08(6) or to any adjustment to be made with respect thereto, but, subject to the provisions of Article 6 of the Base Indenture, may accept as conclusive evidence of the correctness of any such provisions, and shall be protected in relying upon, the Officers' Certificate (which the Company shall be obligated to file with the Trustee prior to the execution of any such supplemental indenture) with respect thereto.
Responsibility of Trustee
(8)   . In the event that Section 2.07 requires adjustments to the Conversion Rate under more than one of Sections 2.07(l), (2), or (3), and the Record Dates for the distributions giving rise to such adjustments shall occur on the same date, then such
Simultaneous Adjustments
 
 
 
 
 
adjustments shall be made by applying, first, the provisions of Section 2.07(3), second, the provisions of Section 2.07(l), and third, the provisions of Section 2.07(2).
(9)   . After an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under Section 2.07, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under Section 2.07 shall cause an adjustment to the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
Successive Adjustments
(10)  . Whenever successive adjustments to the Conversion Rate are called for pursuant to Sections 2.07 or 2.08, such adjustments shall be made to the Market Price as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the intent of Section 2.07 and 2.08 and to avoid unjust or inequitable results as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors.
General Considerations
(11)        . (a)  Shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of Notes prior to the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement shall be physically delivered in certificated form to the Holders converting such Notes and the certificate representing such shares of Common Stock shall bear the Restricted Common Stock Legend unless removed in accordance with Section 2.08(11)(c).
Restriction on Common Stock Issuable Upon Conversion
(b)   If (i) shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of Notes prior to the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement are to be registered in a name other than that of the Holder of such Notes or (ii) shares of Common Stock represented by a certificate bearing the Restricted Common Stock Legend are transferred subsequently by such Holder, then, unless the Shelf Registration Statement has become effective and such shares are being transferred pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, the Holder must deliver to the transfer agent for the Common Stock and to the Company a certificate in substantially the form of Exhibit C as to compliance with the restrictions on transfer applicable to such shares of Common Stock and neither the transfer agent nor the registrar for the Common Stock shall be required to register any transfer of such Common Stock not so accompanied by a properly completed certificate
.
(c)   Except in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement, if certificates representing shares of Common Stock are issued upon the registration of transfer, exchange or replacement of any other certificate representing shares of Common Stock bearing the Restricted Common Stock Legend, or if a request is made to remove such Restricted Common Stock Legend from certificates representing shares of Common Stock, the certificates so issued shall bear the Restricted Common Stock Legend, or the Restricted Common Stock Legend shall not be removed, as the case may be, unless there is delivered to the Company such reasonably satisfactory evidence, which, in the case of a transfer made pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, may include an opinion of counsel pursuant to the laws in the State of New York, as may be reasonably required by the Company, that neither the legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the provisions of Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933 and that such shares of Common Stock are securities that are not "restricted" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. Upon provision to the Company of such reasonably satisfactory evidence, the Company shall cause the transfer agent for the Common Stock to countersign and deliver certificates representing shares of Common Stock that do not bear the legend.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(12)  . If a Holder elects to convert Notes, pursuant to the satisfaction of the conditions described in clause (e) of paragraph 9 in the Notes in connection with a Fundamental Change referred to in clause (b) of the definition of Fundamental Change contained in Section 1.01 (or a transaction that would have been a Fundamental Change under clause (b) of the definition of Fundamental Change but for the operation of the Trading Price Exception) pursuant to which 10% or more of the consideration for the Common Stock (excluding cash payments for fractional shares and cash payments made in respect of dissenters' appraisal rights) in the transaction or transactions otherwise constituting the Fundamental Change does not consist of Publicly Traded Securities (a " "), the Company will increase the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the " ") as set forth below. The number of shares of Additional Common Stock shall be determined by reference to the table below, based on the date on which the Cash Take-Over Transaction becomes effective (the " ") and the price (the " ") paid per share for the Common Stock in the Cash Take-Over Transaction. If holders of Common Stock receive only cash in the Cash Take-Over Transaction, the Stock Price shall be the cash amount paid per share. Otherwise, the Stock Price shall be the average of the Sale Price of the Common Stock on the five Trading Days prior to but not including the Effective Date.
Adjustment for Conversion Upon a Cash Take-Over Transaction
Cash Take-Over Transaction
Additional Common Stock
Effective Date
Stock Price
 
The Stock Prices set forth in the table below will be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate is adjusted. On such date, the Stock Prices shall be adjusted by multiplying:
 
 
The following table sets forth the hypothetical Stock Price and number of shares of Additional Common Stock issuable per $1,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Stock Price or Effective Date is not set forth in the table above and the Stock Price is:
 
SECTION 2.09.      
Interest
The Notes shall bear interest at a rate of 4.25% per year on the Principal Amount hereof, from November 15, 2006 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date (as defined below) to which payment has been made or duly provided for, payable semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning March 15, 2007 (each an "") to the persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on March 1 and September 1 (each a "") (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date. Interest on the Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
Interest Payment Date
Regular Record Date
Interest on Notes converted after the close of business on a Regular Record Date, but prior to the opening of business on the corresponding Interest Payment Date , will be paid to the Holder of such Notes on the Regular Record Date but, upon conversion, the Holder must pay the Company the interest which has accrued and will be paid to the Holder on such Interest Payment
 
 
 
 
 
Date. No such payment by the Holder need be made with respect to Notes in respect of which a Redemption Date has been declared that falls within this period or on such Interest Payment Date.
 
(1)   . Prior to 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on any applicable payment date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is acting as Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto) a sum sufficient to pay principal, if applicable, or interest, if any, when due. The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal or interest on the Notes and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. If the Company or an Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by the Paying Agent. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money delivered to the Trustee.
Paying Agent To Hold Money in Trust
(2)   . The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders. If the Trustee is not the Security Registrar, the Company shall furnish, or cause the Security Registrar to furnish, to the Trustee, in writing at least five Business Days before each Interest Payment Date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Holders.
Holder Lists
(3)   . (a) Semiannual interest on any Notes that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Notes are registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose. Each installment of semiannual interest on any Notes shall be paid in same-day funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located inside the United States. In the case of a Global Security, semiannual interest payable on any applicable payment date will be paid to the Depositary, with respect to that portion of such Global Security held for its account by Cede & Co., for the purpose of permitting such party to credit the interest received by it in respect of such Global Security to the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof.
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved
(b)   Except as otherwise specified with respect to the Notes, any semiannual interest on any Notes that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, within 30 days following any applicable payment date (herein called "", which term shall include any accrued and unpaid interest that has accrued on such defaulted amount in accordance with paragraph 1 of the Notes), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder
Defaulted Interest
 
 
 
 
 
thereof on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (i) or (ii) below.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.11 and Section 3.05 of the Base Indenture, Notes delivered under this Supplemental Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Notes shall carry the rights to semiannual interest accrued and unpaid to, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Notes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 3
 
GLOBAL SECURITIES
SECTION 3.01.      .  The Notes shall initially be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver such Global Security or Securities which (1) shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate Principal Amount of, the outstanding Notes to be represented by such Global Security or Securities, or such portion thereof as the Company shall specify in writing to the Trustee or Authenticating Agent, (2) shall be registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the ""), (3) shall be delivered by the Trustee or the Authentication Agent to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction and (4) shall bear a global securities legend substantially to the following effect:
Form
Depositary
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR THE INDIVIDUAL NOTES REPRESENTED HEREBY, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY
and shall bear a restricted securities legend (a "") substantially to the following effect:
Restricted Securities Legend
 
 
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) REPRESENTS THAT IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT); (2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT WITHIN TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUANCE OF THIS SECURITY AND THE LAST DAY ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR SECURITY) RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OR THE COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF SUCH SECURITY, EXCEPT (A) TO THE ISSUER OR A SUBSIDIARY THEREOF; (B) TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE); (C) PURSUANT TO THE EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE), OR (D) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES
 
 
 
 
 
ACT; AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL, PRIOR TO ANY TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY WITHIN TWO YEARS AFTER THE ORIGINAL ISSUANCE OF THIS SECURITY, FURNISH TO THE TRUSTEE AND THE ISSUER SUCH CERTIFICATIONS, LEGAL OPINIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE TO CONFIRM THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS BEING MADE PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. IN ANY CASE, THE HOLDER HEREOF WILL NOT, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ENGAGE IN ANY HEDGING TRANSACTION WITH REGARD TO THIS SECURITY OR ANY COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF SUCH SECURITY, EXCEPT AS PERMITTED BY THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
Interests in the Global Securities shall be issued only in denominations of $1,000 or integral multiples thereof.
SECTION 3.02.      .  Notwithstanding any other provisions herein but subject to the provisions of Section 3.03 below, unless the terms of a Global Security expressly permit such Global Security to be exchanged in whole or in part for individual Notes, a Global Security may be transferred, in whole but not in part and in the manner provided in Section 3.05 of the Base Indenture, only to a nominee of the Depositary for such Global Security, or to the Depositary, or a successor Depositary for such Global Security selected or approved by the Company, or to a nominee of such successor Depositary.
Transfer
SECTION 3.03.      .  Except in connection with a shelf registration statement ("") contemplated by and in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement by and between the Company and UBS Securities LLC, dated as of November 15, 2006 (the ""), if Notes are issued upon the registration of transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes bearing a Restricted Securities Legend, or if a request is made to remove such a Restrictive Securities Legend on Notes, the Notes so issued shall bear the Restricted Securities Legend, or a Restricted Securities Legend shall not be removed, as the case may be, unless there is delivered to the Company such reasonably satisfactory evidence, which, in the case of a transfer made pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, may include an opinion of counsel given in accordance with the laws in the State of New York, as may be reasonably required by the Company, that neither the legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the provisions of Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933 and that such Notes are not "restricted" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. Upon provision to the Company of such reasonably satisfactory evidence, the Trustee or Authenticating Agent, at the written direction of the Company, shall authenticate and deliver Notes that do not bear the legend.
Restricted Securities Legend
Shelf Registration Statement
Registration Rights Agreement
SECTION 3.04.      .  (1)  If at any time the Depositary for a Global Security notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or if at any time the Depositary for the Notes ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act or other applicable statute or regulation, the Company shall
Individual Notes
 
 
 
 
 
appoint a successor Depositary with respect to such Global Security. If a successor Depositary for such Global Security is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent, upon receipt of a written request by the Company for the authentication and delivery of individual Notes in exchange for such Global Security, shall authenticate and deliver, individual Notes in definitive form in an aggregate Principal Amount equal to the Principal Amount of the Global Security in exchange for such Global Security.
(2)   The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that the Notes or portions thereof issued or issuable in the form of one or more Global Securities shall no longer be represented by such Global Security or Securities. In such event, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent, upon receipt of a written request by the Company for the authentication and delivery of individual Notes in exchange in whole or in part for such Global Security, shall authenticate and deliver individual Notes in definitive form in an aggregate Principal Amount equal to the Principal Amount of such Global Security or Securities representing such series or portion thereof in exchange for such Global Security or Securities.
(3)   If specified by the Company with respect to Notes issued or issuable in the form of a Global Security, the Depositary for such Global Security may surrender such Global Security in exchange in whole or in part for individual Notes in definitive form on such terms as are acceptable to the Company and such Depositary. Thereupon the Company shall execute, and the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, without service-charge, (a) to each Person specified by such Depositary a new Note or Notes of any authorized denomination as requested by such Person in an aggregate Principal Amount equal to and in exchange for such Person's beneficial interest in the Global Security; and (b) to such Depositary a new Global Security in an authorized denomination equal to the difference, if any, between the Principal Amount of the surrendered Global Security and the aggregate Principal Amount of Notes delivered to the Holders thereof.
(4)   In any exchange provided for in any of the preceding three paragraphs, the Company shall execute and the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver individual Notes in definitive registered form in authorized denominations. Upon the exchange of the entire Principal Amount of a Global Security for individual Notes, such Global Security shall be canceled by the Trustee or the Security Registrar. Except as provided in the preceding paragraph, Notes issued in exchange for a Global Security pursuant to this Section shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary for such Global Security, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee or the Security Registrar. The Trustee or the Security Registrar shall deliver such Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered.
ARTICLE 4
 
REMEDIES
SECTION 4.01.      . Any Event of Default set forth in Section 5.01 of the Base Indenture, other than those contained in clauses (1)-(3) thereof, which shall not apply to the Notes, and any one of the following events shall constitute an " 
Additional Events of Default
Event of
 
 
 
 
 
Default
" hereunder and thereunder whenever used with respect to the Notes in this Indenture (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
(1)   a default by the Company in the payment of any Principal Amount or accrued and unpaid interest at maturity, Redemption Price, Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price with respect to any Notes when such amount becomes due and payable; or
(2)   failure by the Company to pay "Additional Amounts" (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) or a default by the Company in the payment of any interest, which failure or default, in either case, continues for 30 days.
The Indenture is hereby amended, with respect to the Notes only, by replacing the words, "other than the Securities of such series" with the words "other than the 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2023" in paragraph (5) of Section 5.01 and by inserting the phrase "or stayed" after the word "dismissed" in clause (ii) of paragraph (7) of Section 5.01.
SECTION 4.02.      . The portion of the Principal Amount of the Notes that shall become due and payable pursuant to any acceleration under Section 5.02 of the Base Indenture is the Principal Amount plus accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such acceleration. If an Event of Default specified in Section 5.01(6) or (7) of the Base Indenture occurs and is continuing, the Principal Amount of all of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the occurrence of the bankruptcy or insolvency, shall automatically become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holders.
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
ARTICLE 5
 
DISCHARGE OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
SECTION 5.01.      . When (1) the Company shall deliver to the Security Registrar for cancellation all Notes theretofore authenticated (other than any Notes which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and in lieu of or in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered) and not theretofore canceled, or (2) all the Notes not theretofore canceled or delivered to the Security Registrar for cancellation shall have (a) been deposited for conversion and the Company shall deliver to the Holders shares of Common Stock sufficient to pay all amounts owing in respect of all Notes (other than any Notes which shall have been mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen and in lieu of or in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered) not theretofore canceled or delivered to the Security Registrar for cancellation or (b) become due and payable on the Purchase Date, Fundamental Change Purchase Date, Final Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as applicable, and the Company shall deposit with the Trustee cash or shares of Common Stock, as applicable, sufficient to pay all amounts owing in respect of all Notes (other than any Notes which shall have been mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen and in lieu of or in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered) not theretofore canceled or delivered to the Security Registrar for cancellation, including the Principal Amount and interest
Discharge of Supplemental Indenture
 
 
 
 
 
accrued and unpaid to such Final Maturity Date, Purchase Date, Fundamental Change Purchase Date or Redemption Date, as the case may be, and if in either case (1) or (2) the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then the Indenture with respect to the Notes shall cease to be of further effect (except as to (i) remaining rights of registration of transfer, substitution and exchange and conversion of Notes; (ii) rights hereunder of Holders to receive payments of the amounts then due, including interest with respect to the Notes and the other rights, duties and obligations of Holders, as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the amounts, if any, so deposited with the Trustee; and (iii) the rights, obligations and immunities of the Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Security Registrar under the Indenture with respect to the Notes), and the Trustee, on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as required by Section 5.03 and at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging the Indenture with respect to the Notes; the Company, however, hereby agrees to reimburse the Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Security Registrar for any costs or expenses thereafter reasonably and properly incurred by the Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Security Registrar and to compensate the Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Security Registrar for any services thereafter reasonably and properly rendered by the Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Security Registrar in connection with the Indenture with respect to the Notes or the Notes. Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture is replaced in its entirety by this Section 5.01.
SECTION 5.02.      . If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 4.02 of the Base Indenture by reason of any order or judgment of any court of governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under the Indenture with respect to the Notes and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 5.01 until such time as the Trustee or the Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 4.02 of the Base Indenture; , , that if the Company makes any payment of Principal Amount or interest, if any, of any Notes following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Reinstatement
provided
however
SECTION 5.03.      . Upon any application or demand by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under Section 5.01, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in the Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
Officers' Certificate; Opinion of Counsel
Each certificate or Opinion of Counsel provided for in this Supplemental Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant pursuant to the previous paragraph shall include: (1) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statement or opinion contained in such certificate or opinion is based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed
 
 
 
 
 
opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
ARTICLE 6
 
WAIVER, MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS
SECTION 6.01.      . The Holders of a majority in Principal Amount of the outstanding Notes may waive any past default under the Indenture or the Notes, except (1) a default by the Company in the payment of any Principal Amount or accrued and unpaid interest at maturity, Redemption Price, Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price due with respect to any Notes when such amount becomes due and payable; (2) failure by the Company to pay "Additional Amounts" (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) or a default by the Company in the payment of any interest, which failure or default, in either case, continues for 30 days; (3) a Default with respect to any provision of the Indenture that cannot be amended without the consent of the Holder of each affected Note or (4) a Default which constitutes a failure to convert any Notes in accordance with their terms and the terms of this Indenture.
Waiver
SECTION 6.02.      . Supplemental indentures modifying the Indenture and the terms of the Notes may be entered into as set forth in Article 9 of the Base Indenture (except that the reference in Section 9.02 of the Base Indenture to Section 10.11 of the Base Indenture shall not apply to the Notes), that the Company and the Trustee may not, without the consent of each Holder of Notes affected thereby, modify or amend the Indenture or the Notes to:
Amendments
provided
(1)   Reduce the Principal Amount, or extend the Stated Maturity, of any Notes;
(2)   Reduce the Redemption Price, Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price of any Notes;
(3)   Make any change that adversely affects the right to convert any Notes;
(4)   Except as otherwise provided in this Indenture or in the offering memorandum relating to the Notes, alter the manner or rate of accrual of Interest on any Notes or extend the time for payment of interest on any Notes;
(5)   Reduce the amount of Principal payable upon acceleration of maturity;
(6)   Reduce the percentage in Principal Amount of affected Notes the consent of whose Holders is required for amendment of this Indenture or for waiver of compliance with some provisions of this Indenture or for waiver of some defaults under this Indenture;
(7)   Change the Company's obligation with respect to the redemption provisions of this Indenture (including Article 11 of the Base Indenture and Section 2.02 hereof) in a manner adverse to the Holders;
 
 
 
 
 
 
(8) Modify the provisions relating to waiver of defaults under this Indenture (including Section 5.13 of the Base Indenture and Section 6.01 hereof) or any of the provisions relating to amendment of this Indenture (including Article 9 of the Base Indenture and this Section) except to increase the percentage required for consent or to provide that some other provisions of this Indenture may not be modified or waived;
(9)    Change the place of payment where, or the currency in which, the Notes are payable; or
(10) Impair the Holder's right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment due under the Notes.
 
ARTICLE 7
 
RANKING
SECTION 7.01.      . The Notes shall be direct senior obligations of the Company and shall rank senior in right of payment to all existing and future indebtedness that is, by its terms, expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Notes and in right of payment with all other unsecured senior indebtedness of the Company.
Senior in Right of Payment
pari passu
ARTICLE 8
 
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 8.01.      . This Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
Integral Part
SECTION 8.02.      . The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Base Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided. The provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall, subject to the terms hereof, supersede the provisions of the Base Indenture to the extent the Base Indenture is inconsistent herewith.
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
SECTION 8.03.      . This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
SECTION 8.04.      . THE INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW RULES OF SAID STATE.
Governing Law
SECTION 8.05.      . If and to the extent that any provision of the Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with
Conflict of Any Provision of Indenture with Trust Indenture Act of 1939
 
 
 
 
 
a provision required under the terms of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, such Trust Indenture Act provision shall control.
SECTION 8.06.      . The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
SECTION 8.07.      . In case any provision in the Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby, to the extent permitted by applicable law.
Severability of Provisions
SECTION 8.08.      . All covenants and agreements in the Indenture by the parties hereto shall bind their respective successors and assigns and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns
SECTION 8.09.      . Nothing in the Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Security Registrar, any Conversion Agent, any Paying Agent, and their successors hereunder, and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under the Indenture.
Benefit of Indenture
SECTION 8.10.      . The Trustee accepts the amendments to the Base Indenture effected by this Supplemental Indenture and agrees to execute the trusts created by the Base Indenture as hereby amended, but only upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the recitals contained herein, which shall be taken as the statements of the Company and except as provided in the Indenture the Trustee shall not be responsible or accountable in any way whatsoever for or with respect to the validity or execution or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture and the Trustee makes no representation with respect thereto.
Acceptance by Trustee
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
[SEAL]
Attest:
/s/ Nicholas J. Camera       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
[FORM OF FACE OF GLOBAL SECURITY]
THE ISSUE DATE OF THIS SECURITY IS __________ __, _______.
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR THE INDIVIDUAL NOTES REPRESENTED HEREBY, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) REPRESENTS THAT IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT); (2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT WITHIN TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUANCE OF THIS SECURITY AND THE LAST DAY ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR SECURITY) RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OR THE COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF SUCH SECURITY, EXCEPT (A) TO THE ISSUER OR A SUBSIDIARY THEREOF; (B) TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE); (C) PURSUANT TO THE EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE), OR (D) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT; AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL, PRIOR TO ANY TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY WITHIN TWO YEARS AFTER THE ORIGINAL ISSUANCE OF THIS SECURITY, FURNISH TO THE TRUSTEE AND THE ISSUER SUCH CERTIFICATIONS, LEGAL OPINIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION AS MAY BE
 
 
 
 
 
REQUIRED PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE TO CONFIRM THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS BEING MADE PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. IN ANY CASE, THE HOLDER HEREOF WILL NOT, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ENGAGE IN ANY HEDGING TRANSACTION WITH REGARD TO THIS SECURITY OR ANY COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF SUCH SECURITY, EXCEPT AS PERMITTED BY THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
 
4.25% CONVERTIBLE SENIOR NOTES DUE 2023
 
The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), promises to pay to __________ or registered assigns, on March 15, 2023 the Principal Amount of __________ Dollars ($__________).
Company
This Note shall bear interest as specified on the other side of this Note. This Note is convertible as specified on the other side of this Note.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
Title:
 
Attest:
 
Title:
 
[SEAL] Dated:________ __, ______ 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF
 
This is one of the New Notes described in the within- mentioned Indenture and Supplemental Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Trustee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[FORM OF REVERSE SIDE OF GLOBAL SECURITY]
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
4.25% CONVERTIBLE SENIOR NOTES DUE 2023
This Note shall bear interest at a rate of 4.25% per year on the Principal hereof, from November 15, 2006 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date (as defined below) to which payment has been paid or duly provided for, payable semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning March 15, 2007 (each an "Interest Payment Date") to the persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on March 1 and September 1 (each a "Regular Record Date") (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date. Interest on the Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
Interest on Notes converted after the close of business on a Regular Record Date, but prior to the opening of business on the corresponding Interest Payment Date, will be paid to the Holder on the Regular Record Date but, upon conversion, the Holder must pay the Company the interest which has accrued and will be paid to the Holder on such Interest Payment Date. No such payment need be made with respect to Notes in respect of which a Redemption Date has been declared that falls within such period or on such Interest Payment Date.
If the Principal hereof or any portion of such Principal is not paid when due (whether upon acceleration, upon the date set for payment of the Redemption Price pursuant to paragraph 5 hereof, upon the date set for payment of a Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price pursuant to paragraph 7 hereof or upon the Final Maturity of this Note) or if interest due hereon or any portion of such interest is not paid when due in accordance with this paragraph or paragraph 10 hereof, then in each such case the overdue amount shall bear interest at the rate of 4.25% per annum, compounded semiannually (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable on demand.
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall make payments in respect of the Notes to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the Business Day preceding the Redemption Date or Final Maturity, as the case may be, or at the close of business on a Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as the case may be. Holders must surrender Notes to the Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Notes. The Company shall pay, at the office of the Paying Agent, cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such money mailed to the Holder's registered address or, with respect to Global Securities, by wire transfer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initially, The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation (the ""), shall act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Security Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Security Registrar or co-registrar or approve a change in the office through which any Paying Agent acts without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Security Registrar or co-registrar.
Trustee
The Company issued the Notes under a Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of November 15, 2006 (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of November 15, 2006 (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), between the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. Reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders and the terms upon which the Notes are to be authenticated and delivered. The terms, conditions and provisions of the Notes are those stated in the Indenture, those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and those set forth in the Notes.
Base Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company limited to $400,000,000 aggregate Principal Amount.
No sinking fund is provided for the Notes. The Notes are redeemable in whole, or in part, at any time at the option of the Company at a redemption price ("Redemption Price") equal to the Principal Amount of the Notes to be redeemed plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date, the Notes are not redeemable prior to March 15, 2012.
provided that
Notice of redemption at the option of the Company shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to the Trustee, the Paying Agent and each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Notes (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, on and after the Redemption Date interest, if any, shall cease to accrue on such Notes or portions thereof. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 Principal Amount may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000 Principal Amount.
7.                       PURCHASE BY THE COMPANY AT THE OPTION OF THE HOLDER; PURCHASE AT THE OPTION OF THE HOLDER UPON A FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, a Holder shall have the option to require the Company to purchase the Notes held by such Holder on March 15, 2012, March 15,
 
 
 
 
 
2015 and March 15, 2018 (each, a "") at a purchase price (the "") equal to the Principal Amount of the Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest to such Purchase Date, upon delivery of a Purchase Notice containing the information set forth in the Indenture, from the opening of business on the date that is 20 Business Days prior to such Purchase Date until the close of business on the fifth Business Day prior to such Purchase Date and upon delivery of the Notes to the Paying Agent by the Holder as set forth in the Indenture. The Company will pay the Purchase Price in cash for any Notes to be purchased as of the Purchase Date occurring on March 15, 2012. With respect to the March 15, 2015 and March 15, 2018 Purchase Dates, the Purchase Price may be paid by the Company, at its option, in cash or by the issuance and delivery of shares of Common Stock of the Company, or in any combination thereof as set forth in the Indenture, provided that the Company will pay accrued and unpaid interest in Cash.
Purchase Date
Purchase Price
Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 Principal Amount may be purchased in part, but only in integral multiples of $1,000 Principal Amount.
(b) If a Fundamental Change shall occur at any time prior to March 15, 2012, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, to require the Company to purchase any or all of such Holder's Notes or any portion of the Principal Amount thereof that is equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 on the day that is 35 Business Days after the date of the Company Notice of the occurrence of the Fundamental Change (subject to extension to comply with applicable law) for a Fundamental Change Purchase Price equal to the Principal Amount of Notes purchased plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, which Fundamental Change Purchase Price shall be paid by the Company, at its option, in cash, by the issuance and delivery of shares of Common Stock of the Company or a combination thereof, as set forth in the Indenture, provided that the Company will pay accrued and unpaid interest in Cash.
(c) Holders have the right to withdraw any Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, as the case may be, by delivery to the Paying Agent of a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
(d) If cash (and/or Common Stock if permitted under the Indenture) sufficient to pay a Fundamental Change Purchase Price or Purchase Price, as the case may be, of all Notes or portions thereof to be purchased as of the Purchase Date or the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as the case may be, is deposited with the Paying Agent on the Business Day following the Purchase Date or the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as the case may be, interest, if any, shall cease to accrue on such Notes (or portions thereof) on and after such Purchase Date or Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as the case may be, and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such (other than the right to receive the Purchase Price or Fundamental Change Purchase Price, as the case may be, upon surrender of such Note).
8.                          RANKING
The Notes shall be direct senior obligations of the Company and shall rank senior in right of payment to all existing and future indebtedness that is, by its terms, expressly subordinated in
 
 
 
 
right of payment to the Notes and in right of payment with all other unsecured senior indebtedness of the Company. The Notes are not guaranteed.
pari passu
9.                       CONVERSION
Subject to the procedures set forth in the Indenture, a Holder may convert Notes into Common Stock of the Company at any time on or before the close of business on March 15, 2023 if at least one of the following conditions is satisfied on the Conversion Date:
(a) the average of the Sale Prices for the Common Stock for the 20 Trading Days immediately prior to the Conversion Date equals or exceeds the amount equal to the Specified Percentage on such date multiplied by $1,000, divided by the Conversion Rate;
(b) the credit ratings assigned to the Notes by any two of Moody's Investors Service, Inc., Standard & Poor's Ratings Services or Fitch Ratings are lower than Ba2, BB and BB, respectively;
(c) the Notes no longer are assigned credit ratings by at least two of Moody's Investors Services, Inc., Standard & Poor's Ratings Services or Fitch Ratings;
(d) the Notes have been called for redemption by the Company, in which case a Holder may convert Notes into Common Stock at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Redemption Date;
(e) the Company becomes a party to a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange pursuant to which the Common Stock would be converted into cash or property (other than securities), in which case a Holder may surrender Notes for conversion at any time from and after the date which is 15 days prior to the anticipated effective date for the transaction until 15 days after the actual effective date of such transaction; or
(f) the Company elects to (i) distribute to all holders of Common Stock assets, debt securities or rights to purchase securities of the Company, which distribution has a per share value as determined by the Company's Board of Directors exceeding 15% of the Sale Price of the Common Stock on the day preceding the declaration date for such distribution or (ii) distribute to all holders of Common Stock rights entitling them to purchase, for a period expiring within 60 days after the date of such distribution, Common Stock at less than the Sale Price at the time of such distribution. In the case of the foregoing clauses (i) and (ii), the Company must notify the Holders at least 20 Business Days prior to the ex-dividend date for such distribution. Once the Company has given such notice, Holders may surrender their Notes for conversion at any time thereafter until the earlier of the close of business on the Business Day prior to the ex-dividend date or the Company's announcement that such distribution will not take place. The ex-dividend date is the first date upon which a sale of the Common Stock does not automatically transfer the right to receive the relevant dividend from the seller of the Common Stock to its buyer.
(g) at any time after February 15, 2023 and prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Stated Maturity.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes in respect of which a Holder has delivered a notice of exercise of the option to require the Company to purchase such Notes pursuant to Sections 2.03 or 2.04 may be converted only if the notice of exercise is withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
The initial Conversion Rate is 80.5153 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 Principal Amount, subject to adjustment in certain events described in the Indenture. The Company shall deliver cash or a check in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock.
Holders of Notes at the close of business on a Regular Record Date will receive payment of interest payable on the corresponding Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion of such Notes at any time after the close of business on such Regular Record Date. Notes surrendered for conversion during the period from the close of business on any Regular Record Date to the opening of business on the corresponding Interest Payment Date (except for Notes in respect of which a Redemption Date has been declared that falls within this period or on such Interest Payment Date) must be accompanied by payment of an amount equal to the interest that the Holder is to receive on the Notes. Except where Notes surrendered for conversion must be accompanied by payment as described above, no interest on converted Notes will be payable by the Company on any Interest Payment Date subsequent to the date of conversion.
To convert the Notes a Holder must (1) complete and manually sign the irrevocable conversion notice on the back of the Notes (or complete and manually sign a facsimile of such notice) and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent at the office maintained by the Conversion Agent for such purpose, (2) surrender the Notes to the Conversion Agent, (3) furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents if required by the Conversion Agent, the Company or the Trustee and (4) pay any transfer or similar tax, if required.
A Holder may convert a portion of the Notes only if the Principal Amount of such portion is $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000. No payment or adjustment shall be made for dividends on the Common Stock except as provided in the Indenture. On conversion of the Notes, that portion of accrued and unpaid interest attributable to the period from the Issue Date to the Conversion Date with respect to the converted portion of the Notes shall not be canceled, extinguished or forfeited, but rather shall be deemed to be paid in full to the Holder thereof through the delivery of the Common Stock (together with any cash payment in lieu of fractional shares) in exchange for the portion of the Notes being converted pursuant to the terms hereof; and the Fair Market Value of such shares of Common Stock (together with any such cash payment in lieu of fractional shares) shall be treated as issued, to the extent thereof, first in exchange for interest accrued and unpaid through the Conversion Date, and the balance, if any, of such Fair Market Value of such Common Stock (and any such cash payment) shall be treated as issued in exchange for the Principal Amount of the Notes being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof.
10.                     DEFAULTED INTEREST
Except as otherwise specified with respect to the Notes, any Defaulted Interest on any Note shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder thereof on the relevant Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, by virtue of having been such Holder, and such
 
 
 
 
 
Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company as provided for in Section 2.11(3)(b) of the Supplemental Indenture.
11.                     DENOMINATIONS; TRANSFER; EXCHANGE
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 Principal Amount and multiplies of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or convert Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Security Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Security Registrar need not register the transfer of or exchange any Notes selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Note to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Note not to be redeemed) or any Notes in respect of which a Purchase Notice or Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Note to be purchased in part, the portion of the Note not to be purchased) or any Notes for a period of 15 days before any selection of Notes to be redeemed.
12.                    PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS
The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes.
13.                    UNCLAIMED MONEY OR PROPERTY
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or property held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Notes that remains unclaimed for two years, , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such return, shall at the expense of the Company cause to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or mail to each such Holder notice that such money or property remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication or mailing, any unclaimed money or property then remaining shall be returned to the Company. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or property must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
provided, however
14.                    AMENDMENT; WAIVER
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Notes may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes at the time outstanding and (ii) certain defaults or noncompliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes at the time outstanding. The Indenture or the Notes may be amended without the consent of any Holders under circumstances set forth in Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
15.                    DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, may declare the Principal Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, of all the Notes to be due and payable immediately. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which shall result in the Notes being declared due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
Events of Default in respect of the Notes are set forth in Section 4.01 of the Supplemental Indenture and Section 5.01 of the Base Indenture. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it receives satisfactory indemnity or security. Subject to certain limitations, conditions and exceptions, Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power, including the annulment of a declaration of acceleration. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing default (except a default in payment on any Notes) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interests.
16.                    CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, AND SALE OF ASSETS
In the event of a consolidation, merger, or sale of assets to convey, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of Company's property or assets as described in Section 8.01 of the Base Indenture, the successor corporation to the Company shall succeed to and be substituted for the Company, and may exercise the Company's rights and powers under this Indenture, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the Company shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Notes.
17.                    
TRUSTEE AND AGENT DEALINGS WITH THE COMPANY
The Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Security Registrar under the Indenture, each in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Security Registrar.
18.                    
CALCULATIONS IN RESPECT OF THE NOTES
The Company will be responsible for making all calculations called for under the Notes. These calculations include, but are not limited to, determination of the market prices for the Common Stock, accrued interest payable on the Notes and Conversion Price of the Notes. The Company will make these calculations in good faith and, absent manifest error, these calculations will be final and binding on the Holders. The Company will provide to each of the Trustee and the Conversion Agent a schedule of its calculations and each of the Trustee and the Conversion Agent is entitled to rely upon the accuracy of such calculations without independent verification. The Trustee will forward the Company's calculations to any Holder upon the request of such Holder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
19.                    
NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS
A director, officer or employee, as such, of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or any stockholder as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
20.                    
AUTHENTICATION
This Note shall not be valid until an authorized officer of the Trustee or Authenticating Agent manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Note.
21.                    
ABBREVIATIONS
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TENANT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
22.                    
GOVERNING LAW
The Indenture and this Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to the conflicts of law rules of said state.
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORM OF
CONVERSION NOTICE
To: The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.
The undersigned registered holder of this Note hereby exercises the option to convert this Note, or portion hereof (which is $1,000 Principal Amount or an integral multiple thereof) designated below, for shares of Common Stock of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. in accordance with the terms of the Indenture referred to in this Note, and directs that the shares, if any, issuable and deliverable upon such conversion, together with any check for cash deliverable upon such conversion, and any Notes representing any unconverted principal amount hereof, be issued and delivered to the registered holder hereof unless a different name has been indicated below. If shares or any portion of this Note not converted are to be issued in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned shall pay all transfer taxes payable with respect thereto.
This notice shall be deemed to be an irrevocable exercise of the option to convert this Note.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORM OF FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE PURCHASE NOTICE
To: The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.
The undersigned registered holder of this Note hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (the "") as to the occurrence of a Fundamental Change with respect to the Company and requests and instructs the Company to repurchase this Note, or the portion hereof (which is $1,000 Principal Amount or a integral multiple thereof) designated below, in accordance with the terms of the Supplemental Indenture referred to in this Note and directs that the check or common stock of the Company, as applicable, in payment for this Note or the portion thereof and any Notes representing any unrepurchased principal amount hereof, be issued and delivered to the registered holder hereof unless a different name has been indicated below. If any portion of this Note not repurchased is to be issued in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned shall pay all transfer taxes payable with respect thereto.
Company
Fill in for registration of shares if to be delivered, and Notes if to be issued other than to and in the name of registered holder:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORM OF
PURCHASE NOTICE
To: The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.
The undersigned registered holder of this Note hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (the "") as to the holder's option to require the Company to repurchase this Note and requests and instructs the Company to repurchase this Note, or the portion hereof (which is $1,000 Principal Amount or a integral multiple thereof) designated below, in accordance with the terms of the Supplemental Indenture referred to in this Note and directs that the check or common stock of the Company, as applicable, in payment for this Note or the portion thereof and any Notes representing any unrepurchased principal amount hereof, be issued and delivered to the registered holder hereof unless a different name has been indicated below. If any portion of this Note not repurchased is to be issued in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned shall pay all transfer taxes payable with respect thereto.
Company
Fill in for registration of shares if to be delivered, and Notes if to be issued other than to and in the name of registered holder:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSIGNMENT FORM
For value received ____________ hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto __________ (Please insert social security or other Taxpayer Identification Number of assignee) the within Note, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints __________ attorney to transfer the said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
NOTICE: The above signatures of the holder(s) hereof must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the Note in every particular without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
FORM OF RESTRICTED COMMON STOCK LEGEND
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) REPRESENTS THAT IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT); (2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT WITHIN TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUANCE OF THIS SECURITY AND THE LAST DAY ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR SECURITY) RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY, EXCEPT (A) TO THE ISSUER OR A SUBSIDIARY THEREOF; (B) TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE); (C) PURSUANT TO THE EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE), OR (D) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT; AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL, PRIOR TO ANY TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY WITHIN TWO YEARS AFTER THE ORIGINAL ISSUANCE OF THIS SECURITY, FURNISH TO THE TRANSFER AGENT AND THE ISSUER SUCH CERTIFICATIONS, LEGAL OPINIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION AS MAY BE REQUIRED TO CONFIRM THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS BEING MADE PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. IN ANY CASE, THE HOLDER HEREOF WILL NOT, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ENGAGE IN ANY HEDGING TRANSACTION WITH REGARD TO THIS SECURITY EXCEPT AS PERMITTED BY THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C
FORM OF TRANSFER CERTIFICATE FOR TRANSFER
OF RESTRICTED COMMON STOCK
 
(Transfers pursuant to Section 2.08(11)(b) of the Supplemental Indenture)
 
 
[NAME AND ADDRESS OF COMMON STOCK TRANSFER AGENT]
 
Re: The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. 4.25%
Convertible Senior Notes Due 2023 (the "")
Notes
 
Reference is hereby made to the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of November 15, 2006, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of November 15, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee (collectively, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given them in the Indenture.
Indenture
 
 
This letter relates to _________ shares of Common Stock represented by the accompanying certificate(s) that were issued upon conversion of Notes and which are held in the name of [name of transferor] (the "") to effect the transfer of such Common Stock.
Transferor
 
 
In connection with the transfer of such shares of Common Stock, the undersigned confirms that such shares of Common Stock are being transferred:
 
 
CHECK ONE BOX BELOW
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless one of the boxes is checked, the transfer agent will refuse to register any of the Common Stock evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof; , , that if box (2) or (3) is checked, the transfer agent may require, prior to registering any such transfer of the Common Stock such certifications and other information, and if box (3) is checked such legal opinions, as the Company has reasonably requested in writing, by delivery to the transfer agent of a standing letter of instruction, to
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933.
 
 
 
 
Dated:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
4.25 % Convertible Senior Notes Due 2023
 
REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
THIS REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (this "
Agreement
") is made and entered into as of November 15, 2006 by and between The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "
Company
"), and UBS Securities LLC, as the dealer manager (the "
Dealer Manager
"), in connection with an offer by the Company of up to $400 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (the "
New Notes
") to certain holders of the Company's 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (the "
Existing Notes
") in exchange transactions exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, pursuant to the Dealer Manager Agreement, dated as of November 13, 2006, between the Company and the Dealer Manager (the "
Dealer Manager Agreement
"). The New Notes are issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of November 15, 2006, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "
Trustee
"), as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of November 15, 2006 (the "
Indenture
"). In order to induce the Dealer Manager to enter into the Dealer Manager Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Dealer Manager Agreement.
For purposes of this Registration Rights Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
(a)
          
"
Additional Amounts
" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(d).
(b)
          
"
Additional Amounts Payment Date
" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(d).
(c)
          
"
Affiliate
" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 405 under the Securities Act and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" shall have meanings correlative thereto.
(d)
          
"
Agreement
" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
(e)
          
"
Applicable Conversion Price
" means, as of any date of determination, $1,000 divided by the Conversion Rate in effect as of such date of determination.
(f)
           
"
Business Day
" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
 
 
 
 
(g)
          
"
Commission
" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any other federal agency at the time administering the Exchange Act or the Securities Act, whichever is the relevant statute for the particular purpose.
(h)
          
"
Company
"
has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
(i)
           
"
Conversion Rate
" shall have the meaning assigned such term in the Indenture.
(j)
           
"
Dealer Manager
" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
(k)
          
"
Dealer Manager Agreement
" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
(l)           "
Deferral Notice
" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 3(b).
(m)         "
Deferral Period
" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 3(b).
(n)         
"
Effective Period
" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(a).
(o)
          
"
Exchange Act
" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(p)
          
"
Exchange Date
"
means the date on which the New Notes are initially issued.
(q)
          
"Exempted Exchange Material"
has the meaning specified in the Dealer Manager Agreement.
(r)
           
"Exempted Exchanges"
has the meaning specified in the Dealer Manager Agreement.
(s)
          
"Existing Notes"
" has the meaning specified in the Dealer Manager Agreement.
(t)
           
"Filing Deadline"
has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(a).
(u)
           
"
Holder
" means each holder, from time to time, of Registrable Securities.
(v)
          
"
Indenture
" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
(w)
          
"
Losses
" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 6(d).
(x)
           
"
Material Event
" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 3(a)(iv).
 
 
 
 
 
(y)
          
"
Majority Holders
" shall mean, on any date, holders of the majority of the Shares constituting Registrable Securities; for the purposes of this definition, Holders of Notes constituting Registrable Securities shall be deemed to be the Holders of the number of Shares into which such Notes are or would be convertible as of such date.
(z)
          
"
NASD
" shall mean the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc
.
(aa)
        
"
NASD Rules
" shall mean the Conduct Rules and the By-Laws of the NASD.
(bb)
       
"
New Notes
" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
(cc)
        
"
Notice and Questionnaire
" means a written notice delivered to the Company containing substantially the information called for by the Form of Selling Securityholder Notice and Questionnaire attached as Annex A to the Offering Memorandum.
(dd)
       
"
Notice Holder
" means, on any date, any Holder that has delivered a Notice and Questionnaire to the Company on or prior to such date.
(ee)
        
"
Offering Memorandum
" means the Offering Memorandum dated November 13, 2006.
(ff)
         
"
Person
" means a corporation, association, partnership, organization, business, individual, government or political subdivision thereof or governmental agency.
(gg)
       
"
Prospectus
" means the prospectus included in any Shelf Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A or Rule 430B under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any amendment or prospectus supplement, including post-effective amendments, and all materials incorporated by reference or explicitly deemed to be incorporated by reference in such Prospectus.
(hh)
       
"
Registrable Securities
" means the Securities;
provided
,
however
,
that such Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (i) in the circumstances contemplated by Section 2(a), a registration statement registering such Securities under the Securities Act has been declared or becomes effective and such Securities have been sold or otherwise transferred by the Holder thereof pursuant to such effective registration statement; (ii) such Securities are sold pursuant to Rule 144 under circumstances in which any legend borne by such Securities relating to restrictions on transferability thereof, under the Securities Act or otherwise, is removed or such Securities are eligible to be sold pursuant to Rule 144(k) or any successor provision; or (iii) such Securities shall cease to be outstanding (including, in the case of the New Notes, upon conversion into Shares).
(ii) 
       
"
Registration Default
" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(d).
 
 
 
 
 
(jj) 
       
"
Registration Expenses
" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 5.
(kk)
       
"
Rule 144
,"
"
Rule 405
" and "
Rule 415
" means, in each case, such rule as promulgated under the Securities Act.
(ll)        
"
Securities
" means, collectively, the New Notes and the Shares.
(mm)
     
"
Securities Act
" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(nn)
       
"
Shares
" means the shares of common stock of the Company, par value $0.10 per share, into which the New Notes are convertible or that have been issued upon any conversion from New Notes into common stock of the Company.
(oo)
       
"
Shelf Registration Statement
" means the shelf registration statement referred to in Section 2(a), as amended or supplemented by any amendment or supplement, including post-effective amendments, and all materials incorporated by reference or explicitly deemed to be incorporated by reference in such Shelf Registration Statement.
(pp)
       
"
Trust Indenture Act
" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, or any successor thereto, and the rules, regulations and forms promulgated thereunder, all as the same shall be amended from time to time.
(qq)
       
"
Trustee
" shall have the meaning assigned such term in the Indenture.
Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference herein to a "Section" or "clause" refers to a Section or clause, as the case may be, of this Agreement, and the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Section or other subdivision. Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to a statute, rule or regulation refers to the same (including any successor statute, rule or regulation thereto) as it may be amended from time to time.
 
(a)
          
The Company agrees to file under the Securities Act as promptly as practicable but in any event within 210 days after the Exchange Date (the
"Filing Deadline"
) a shelf registration statement providing for the registration of, and the sale on a continuous or delayed basis by the Holders of, all of the Registrable Securities, pursuant to Rule 415 or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission. The Company agrees to use its reasonable efforts to cause the Shelf Registration Statement to become or be declared effective within 120 days after the Filing Deadline and to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the earlier of (i) the second anniversary of the filing of the Shelf Registration Statement or (ii) such time as there are no longer any Registrable Securities outstanding (the "
Effective Period
"). None of the Company's securityholders (other than Holders of Registrable Securities) shall have the right to include any of the Company's securities in the Shelf Registration Statement.
 
 
 
 
 
(b)
          
The Company further agrees that it shall cause the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, as of the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement or such amendment or supplement, (i) to comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act; and (ii) not to contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, and the Company agrees to furnish to the Holders of the Registrable Securities copies of any supplement or amendment prior to its being used or promptly following its filing with the Commission. If the Shelf Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented from time to time, ceases to be effective for any reason at any time during the Effective Period (other than because all Registrable Securities registered thereunder shall have been sold pursuant thereto or shall have otherwise ceased to be Registrable Securities), the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the prompt withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness thereof.
(c)
          
Each Holder of Registrable Securities agrees that if such Holder wishes to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus, it will do so only in accordance with this Section 2(c) and Section 3(b). Each Holder of Registrable Securities wishing to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus agrees to deliver a Notice and Questionnaire to the Company at least three (3) Business Days prior to any intended distribution of Registrable Securities under the Shelf Registration Statement. From and after the date the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective, the Company shall, as promptly as is practicable and commercially reasonable after the date a Notice and Questionnaire is delivered (i) if required by applicable law, file with the Commission a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or prepare and, if required by applicable law, file a supplement to the related Prospectus or a supplement or amendment to any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire is named as a selling security holder in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus in such a manner as to permit such Holder to deliver such Prospectus to purchasers of the Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law and, if the Company shall file a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its reasonable best efforts to cause such post-effective amendment to be declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as is practicable; (ii) provide such Holder copies of any documents filed pursuant to Section 2(c)(i); and (iii) notify such Holder as promptly as practicable after the effectiveness under the Securities Act of any post-effective amendment or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus, each filed pursuant to Section 2(c)(i);
provided
that if such Notice and Questionnaire is delivered during a Deferral Period, the Company shall so inform the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire and shall take the actions set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above upon expiration of the Deferral Period in accordance with Section 3(b). Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Company shall be under no obligation to name any Holder that is not a Notice Holder as a selling securityholder in any Shelf Registration Statement or related Prospectus;
provided
,
however
, that any Holder that becomes a Notice Holder pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(c) (whether or not
 
 
 
 
such Holder was a Notice Holder at the time the Shelf Registration Statement was declared effective) shall be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or related Prospectus in accordance with the requirements of this Section 2(c).
(d)
          
If any of the following events (any such event a "
Registration Default
") shall occur, then liquidated damages (the "
Additional Amounts
") shall become payable to Holders in respect of the Securities as follows:
(i)
           
if the Shelf Registration Statement is not filed with the Commission within 210 days following the Exchange Date, then commencing on the 211th day after the Exchange Date, Additional Amounts shall accrue on the principal amount of the outstanding New Notes that are Registrable Securities and on the Applicable Conversion Price of any outstanding Shares that are Registrable Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 30 days following such 211th day and at a rate of 0.50% per annum thereafter; or
(ii)
          
if the Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective by the Commission within 120 days following the Filing Deadline, then commencing on the 121st day after the Filing Deadline, Additional Amounts shall accrue on the principal amount of the outstanding New Notes that are Registrable Securities and on the Applicable Conversion Price of any outstanding Shares that are Registrable Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 30 days following such 121st day and at a rate of 0.50% per annum thereafter; or
(iii)
        
if the Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective but such Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective at any time during the Effective Period (other than pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof), then commencing on the day such Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective, Additional Amounts shall accrue on the principal amount of the outstanding New Notes that are Registrable Securities and on the Applicable Conversion Price of any outstanding Shares that are Registrable Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 30 days following such date on which the Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective and at a rate of 0.50% per annum thereafter; or
(iv)
         
if the aggregate duration of Deferral Periods in any period exceeds the number of days permitted in respect of such period pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof, then commencing on the day the aggregate duration of Deferral Periods in any period exceeds the number of days permitted in respect of such period (and again on the first day of any subsequent Deferral Period during such period), Additional Amounts shall accrue on the principal amount of the outstanding Notes that are Registrable Securities and on the Applicable Conversion Price of any outstanding Shares that are Registrable Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 30 days and at a rate of 0.50% per annum thereafter;
provided
,
however
, that the Additional Amounts rate on the Securities shall not exceed in the aggregate 0.50% per annum and shall not be payable under more than one clause above for any given period of time, except that if Additional Amounts would be payable
 
 
 
 
under more than one clause above, but at a rate of 0.25% per annum under one clause and at a rate of 0.50% per annum under the other, then the Additional Amounts rate shall be the higher rate of 0.50% per annum;
provided
further
,
however
,
that (1) upon the filing of the Shelf Registration Statement (in the case of clause (i) above), (2) upon the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement (in the case of clause (ii) above), (3) upon the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement which had ceased to remain effective (in the case of clause (iii) above), (4) upon the termination of the Deferral Period that caused the limit on the aggregate duration of Deferral Periods in a period set forth in Section 3(b) to be exceeded (in the case of clause (iv) above) or (5) upon the termination of certain transfer restrictions on the Securities as a result of the application of Rule 144(k) or any successor provision, Additional Amounts on the Securities as a result of such clause, as the case may be, shall cease to accrue.
 
Additional Amounts on the Securities, if any, will be payable in cash on March 15 and September 15 of each year (the "
Additional Amounts Payment Date
") to holders of record of outstanding Registrable Securities on each preceding March 1 and September 1. The date of determination of the Applicable Conversion Price of any outstanding Shares that are Registrable Securities shall be the Business Day immediately preceding the Additional Amounts Payment Date;
provided
that, any Additional Amounts accrued with respect to any New Notes or portion thereof called for redemption on a redemption date or converted into Shares on a conversion date prior to the Registration Default shall, in any such event, be paid instead to the Holder who submitted such New Notes or portion thereof for redemption or conversion on the applicable redemption date or conversion date, as the case may be, on such date (or promptly following the conversion date, in the case of conversion). Following the cure of all Registration Defaults requiring the payment of Additional Amounts by the Company to the Holders of Registrable Securities pursuant to this Section, the accrual of Additional Amounts will cease (without in any way limiting the effect of any subsequent Registration Default requiring the payment of Additional Amounts by the Company).
 
The Trustee shall be entitled, on behalf of Holders of Securities, to seek any available remedy for the enforcement of this Agreement, including for the payment of any Additional Amounts. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties agree that the sole monetary damages payable for a violation of the terms of this Agreement with respect to which liquidated damages are expressly provided shall be as set forth in this Section 2(d). Nothing shall preclude a Notice Holder or Holder of Registrable Securities from pursuing or obtaining specific performance or other equitable relief with respect to this Agreement.
 
The following provisions shall apply to the Shelf Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2:
 
(i)
           
prepare and file with the Commission a registration statement with respect to the shelf registration on any form which may be utilized by the
 
 
 
 
Company and which shall permit the disposition of the Registrable Securities in accordance with the intended method or methods thereof, as specified in writing by the Holders of the Registrable Securities, and use its reasonable efforts to cause such registration statement to become effective in accordance with Section 2(a) above;
(ii)
          
before filing any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto with the Commission, furnish to the Dealer Manager copies of all such documents proposed to be filed and use reasonable efforts to reflect in each such document when so filed with the Commission such comments as the Dealer Manager reasonably shall propose within three (3) Business Days of the delivery of such copies to the Dealer Manager;
(iii)
        
use its reasonable efforts to prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and post-effective amendments to the Shelf Registration Statement and file with the Commission any other required document as may be necessary to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the expiration of the Effective Period; cause the related Prospectus to be supplemented by any required Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provisions then in force) under the Securities Act; and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act applicable to it with respect to the disposition of all Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement during the Effective Period in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the sellers thereof set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement as so amended or such Prospectus as so supplemented;
(iv)
         
promptly notify the Notice Holders of Registrable Securities (A) when such Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus included therein or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or post-effective amendment has been filed with the Commission, and, with respect to such Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has become effective, (B) of any request, following the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, by the Commission or any other Federal or state governmental authority for amendments or supplements to the Shelf Registration Statement or related Prospectus or for additional information, (C) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of such Shelf Registration Statement or the initiation or written threat of any proceedings for that purpose, (D) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or written threat of any proceeding for such purpose, (E) of the occurrence of (but not the nature of or details concerning) any event or the existence of any fact (a "
Material Event
") as a result of which any Shelf Registration Statement shall contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or any Prospectus shall contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the
 
 
 
 
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (
provided
,
however
, that no notice by the Company shall be required pursuant to this clause (E) in the event that the Company either promptly files a Prospectus supplement to update the Prospectus or a Form 8-K or other appropriate Exchange Act report that is incorporated by reference into the Shelf Registration Statement, which, in either case, contains the requisite information with respect to such Material Event that results in such Shelf Registration Statement no longer containing any untrue statement of material fact or omitting to state a material fact necessary to make the statements contained therein not misleading), (F) of the determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement will be filed with the Commission, which notice may, at the discretion of the Company (or as required pursuant to Section 3(b)), state that it constitutes a Deferral Notice, in which event the provisions of Section 3(b) shall apply or (G) at any time when a Prospectus is required to be delivered under the Securities Act, that the Shelf Registration Statement, Prospectus, amendment or supplement or post-effective amendment does not conform in all material respects to the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder;
(v)
          
prior to any public offering of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, use reasonable efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the Notice Holders in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Registrable Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as any Notice Holder reasonably requests in writing (which request may be included in the Notice and Questionnaire); prior to any public offering of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its reasonable efforts to keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the Effective Period in connection with such Notice Holder's offer and sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) and do any and all other acts or things necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of such Registrable Securities in the manner set forth in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus;
provided
, that the Company will not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Agreement or (ii) take any action that would subject it to general service of process in suits or to taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
(vi)
         
use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of, and if issued, to obtain the withdrawal of, any order suspending the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, and to lift any suspension of the qualification of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction in which they have been qualified for sale, in each case at the earliest practicable date;
 
 
 
 
 
(vii)
       
upon reasonable notice, for a reasonable period prior to the filing of the Shelf Registration Statement, and throughout the Effective Period, make available at reasonable times at the Company's principal place of business or such other reasonable place for inspection by a representative appointed by the Notice Holders in connection with an underwritten offering (or any underwriter, placement agent or counsel acting on their behalf), who shall certify to the Company that they have a current intention to sell their Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, such financial and other information and books and records of the Company, and cause the officers, directors, employees and independent certified public accountants of the Company to respond to such inquiries, as shall be reasonably necessary, in the judgment of the counsel to such Notice Holders, to conduct a reasonable "due diligence" investigation;
provided
,
however
,
that each such representative appointed by the Notice Holders in connection with an underwritten offering shall be required to maintain in confidence and not to disclose to any other Person any information or records reasonably designated by the Company in writing as being confidential, until such time as (A) such information becomes a matter of public record (whether by virtue of its inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement or otherwise) or (B) such Person shall be required so to disclose such information pursuant to a subpoena or order of any court or other governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the matter (subject to the requirements of such order, and only after such Person shall have given the Company prompt prior written notice of such requirement and the opportunity to contest the same or seek an appropriate protective order);
(viii)
      
if reasonably requested by the Dealer Manager or any Notice Holder, promptly incorporate in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement such information as the Dealer Manager or such Notice Holder shall, on the basis of a written opinion of nationally-recognized counsel experienced in such matters, determine to be required to be included therein by applicable law and make any required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment;
provided
that the Company shall not be required to take any actions under this Section 3(a)(viii) that are not, in the reasonable opinion of counsel for the Company, in compliance with applicable law;
(ix)
         
promptly furnish to each Notice Holder and the Dealer Manager, upon their request and without charge, at least one (1) conformed copy of the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendments thereto, including financial statements but excluding schedules, all documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits (unless requested in writing to the Company by such Notice Holder or the Dealer Manager, as the case may be); and
(x)
          
during the Effective Period, deliver to each Notice Holder in connection with any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus relating
 
 
 
 
to such Registrable Securities (including each preliminary prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Notice Holder may reasonably request; and the Company hereby consents (except during such periods that a Deferral Notice is outstanding and has not been revoked) to the use of such Prospectus or each amendment or supplement thereto by each Notice Holder in connection with any offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by such Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in the manner set forth therein.
(b)
          
Upon (A) the issuance by the Commission of a stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement or the initiation of proceedings with respect to the Shelf Registration Statement under Section 8(d) or 8(e) of the Securities Act, (B) the occurrence of any event or the existence of any Material Event as a result of which the Shelf Registration Statement shall contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or any Prospectus shall contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (C) the occurrence or existence of any corporate development that, in the discretion of the Company, makes it appropriate to suspend the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus, the Company will (i) in the case of clause (B) above, subject to the third sentence of this provision, as promptly as practicable prepare and file a post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or a supplement to the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document that would be incorporated by reference into such Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus so that such Shelf Registration Statement does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and such Prospectus does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities being sold thereunder, and, in the case of a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement, subject to the third sentence of this provision, use reasonable efforts to cause it to be declared effective as promptly as is practicable, and (ii) give notice to the Notice Holders that the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement is suspended (a "
Deferral Notice
"). Upon receipt of any Deferral Notice, each Notice Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement until such Notice Holder's receipt of copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus provided for in clause (i) above, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that the Prospectus may be used, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference in such Prospectus. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to ensure that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed (x) in the case of clause (A) above, as promptly as practicable, (y) in the case of clause (B) above, as soon as, in the sole judgment of the Company, public disclosure of such Material Event would not be prejudicial to or contrary to the interests of the Company or, if necessary to avoid unreasonable burden or expense, as soon as practicable thereafter and (z) in the case of
 
 
 
 
clause (C) above, as soon as, in the discretion of the Company, such suspension is no longer appropriate;
provided
that the period during which the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement and any Prospectus is suspended (the "
Deferral Period
"), without the Company incurring any obligation to pay liquidated damages pursuant to Section 2(d), shall not exceed one hundred and twenty (120) days in the aggregate in any twelve (12) month period.
(c)
          
Each Holder of Registrable Securities agrees that upon receipt of any Deferral Notice from the Company, such Holder shall forthwith discontinue (and cause any placement or sales agent or underwriters acting on their behalf to discontinue) the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the registration statement applicable to such Registrable Securities until such Holder (i) shall have received copies of such amended or supplemented Prospectus and, if so directed by the Company, such Holder shall deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies, then in such Holder's possession of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities at the time of receipt of such notice or (ii) shall have received notice from the Company that the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement may continue.
(d)
          
The Company may require each Holder of Registrable Securities as to which any registration pursuant to Section 2(a) is being effected to furnish to the Company such information regarding such Holder and such Holder's intended method of distribution of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing, but only to the extent that such information is required in order to comply with the Securities Act. Each such Holder agrees to notify the Company as promptly as practicable of any inaccuracy or change in information previously furnished by such Holder to the Company or of the occurrence of any event in either case as a result of which any Prospectus relating to such registration contains or would contain an untrue statement of a material fact regarding such Holder or such Holder's intended method of disposition of such Registrable Securities or omits to state any material fact regarding such Holder or such Holder's intended method of disposition of such Registrable Securities required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and promptly to furnish to the Company any additional information required to correct and update any previously furnished information or required so that such Prospectus shall not contain, with respect to such Holder or the disposition of such Registrable Securities, an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
(e)
          
The Company shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and make generally available to its securityholders earning statements (which need not be audited) satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder (or any similar rule promulgated under the Securities Act) no later than 45 days after the end of any 12-month period (or 90 days after the end of any 12-month period if such period is a fiscal year) commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter of the Company commencing after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement, which statements shall cover said 12-month periods.
 
 
 
 
 
(f)
           
The Company shall provide a CUSIP number for all Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement not later than the effective date of such Shelf Registration Statement and provide the Trustee for the New Notes and the transfer agent for the Shares with printed certificates for the Registrable Securities that are in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company.
(g)
          
The Company shall use its reasonable efforts to provide such information as is required for any filings required to be made with the NASD.
(h)
          
Until the expiration of two years after the Exchange Date, the Company will not, and will not permit any of its "affiliates" (as defined in Rule 144) to, resell any of the Securities that have been reacquired by any of them except pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act.
(i)
           
The Company shall cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in a timely manner.
(j)
           
The Company shall enter into such customary agreements and take all such other necessary and lawful actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the Majority Holders of the Registrable Securities being sold) in order to expedite or facilitate disposition of such Registrable Securities.
Each Holder agrees, by acquisition of the Registrable Securities, that no Holder of Registrable Securities shall be entitled to sell any of such Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or to receive a Prospectus relating thereto, unless such Holder has furnished the Company with a Notice and Questionnaire as required pursuant to Section 2(c) hereof (including the information required to be included in such Notice and Questionnaire) and the information set forth in the next sentence. Each Notice Holder agrees promptly to furnish to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Notice Holder not misleading and any other information regarding such Notice Holder and the distribution of such Registrable Securities as may be required to be disclosed in the Shelf Registration Statement under applicable law or pursuant to Commission comments. Each Holder further agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement without delivering, or causing to be delivered, a Prospectus to the purchaser thereof as required under applicable law, and, following termination of the Effective Period, to notify the Company, within 10 business days of a request by the Company, of the amount of Registrable Securities sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement and, in the absence of a response, the Company may assume that all of the Holder's Registrable Securities were so sold.
 
The Company agrees to bear and to pay or cause to be paid promptly upon request being made therefor all expenses incident to the Company's performance of or compliance with this Agreement, including (a) all Commission and any NASD registration and filing fees and
 
 
 
expenses, (b) all fees and expenses in connection with the qualification of the Securities for offering and sale under the State securities and Blue Sky laws referred to in Section 3(a)(v) hereof, including reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel for the placement agent or underwriters, if any, in connection with such qualifications, (c) all expenses relating to the preparation, printing, distribution and reproduction of the Shelf Registration Statement, the related Prospectus, each amendment or supplement to each of the foregoing, the certificates representing the Securities and all other documents relating hereto, (d) fees and expenses of the Trustee under the Indenture, any escrow agent or custodian, and of the registrar and transfer agent for the Shares, (e) fees, disbursements and expenses of counsel and independent certified public accountants of the Company (including the expenses of any opinions or "comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance and compliance) and (f) reasonable fees, disbursements and expenses of one counsel for the Holders of Registrable Securities retained in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, as selected by the Company (unless reasonably objected to by the Majority Holders of the Registrable Securities being registered, in which case the Majority Holders shall select such counsel for the Holders), and fees, expenses and disbursements of any other Persons, including special experts, retained by the Company in connection with such registration (collectively, the "
Registration Expenses
"). To the extent that any Registration Expenses are incurred, assumed or paid by any Holder of Registrable Securities or any placement agent therefor or underwriter thereof, the Company shall reimburse such Person for the full amount of the Registration Expenses so incurred, assumed or paid promptly after receipt of a documented request therefor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Holders of the Registrable Securities being registered shall pay all placement agent fees and commissions and underwriting discounts and commissions attributable to the sale of such Registrable Securities and the fees and disbursements of any counsel or other advisors or experts retained by such Holders (severally or jointly), other than the counsel and experts specifically referred to above.
 
(a)
          
The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, the directors, officers, employees, Affiliates and agents of each such Holder and each Person who controls any such Holder within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Shelf Registration Statement as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (in the case of any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made), and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action;
provided
,
however
, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any
 
 
 
 
such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information relating to the party claiming indemnification furnished to the Company by or on behalf of the party claiming indemnification specifically for inclusion therein. This indemnity agreement shall be in addition to any liability that the Company may otherwise have.
The Company also agrees to indemnify as provided in this Section 6(a) or contribute as provided in Section 6(d) hereof to Losses of each underwriter, if any, of Securities registered under the Shelf Registration Statement, its directors, officers, employees, Affiliates or agents and each Person who controls such underwriter on substantially the same basis as that of the indemnification of the selling Holders provided in this paragraph (a) and shall, if requested by any Holder, enter into an underwriting agreement reflecting such agreement.
(b)
          
Each Holder of Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signs the Shelf Registration Statement and each Person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each such Holder, but only with reference to written information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which any such Holder may otherwise have.
(c)
          
Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 6 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 6, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses; and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel (including local counsel) of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel, other than local counsel if not appointed by the indemnifying party, retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below);
provided
,
however
, that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel (including local counsel) to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying
 
 
 
 
party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding.
(d)
          
In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 6 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, then each applicable indemnifying party shall have a joint and several obligation to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending such loss, claim, liability, damage or action) (collectively "
Losses
") to which such indemnified party may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, from the Exempted Exchanges and the Shelf Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses;
provided
,
however
, that in no case shall any subsequent Holder of any Securities be responsible, in the aggregate, for any amount in excess of the fees payable to the Dealer Manager applicable to such Security, as set forth in the Exempted Exchange Material, nor shall any underwriter be responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the securities purchased by such underwriter under the Shelf Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the sum of (x) the aggregate principal amount of the Existing Notes exchanged in the Exempted Exchanges (before deducting expenses) as set forth in the Exempted Exchange Material and (y) the total amount of Additional Amounts which the Company was not required to pay as a result of registering the Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. Benefits received by the Dealer Manager shall be deemed to be equal to the aggregate amount of fees paid by the Company in connection with the Exchange Offer under the Dealer Manager Agreement, and benefits received by any other Holders shall be deemed to be equal to the value of receiving the Securities registered under the Securities Act. Benefits received by any underwriter shall be deemed to be equal to the total underwriting discounts and commissions, as set forth on the cover page of the Prospectus forming a part of the Shelf
 
 
 
 
Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or any alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the indemnifying party, on the one hand, or by the indemnified party, on the other hand, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 6, each Person who controls a Holder within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act and each director, officer, employee and agent of such Holder shall have the same rights to contribution as such Holder, and each Person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Shelf Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
(e)
          
The provisions of this Section 6 shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or the Company or any of the indemnified Persons referred to in this Section 6, and shall survive the sale by a Holder of securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement.
The Company covenants to the Holders of Registrable Securities that the Company shall use its reasonable efforts to timely file the reports required to be filed by it under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act (including the reports under Section 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act referred to in subparagraph (c)(1) of Rule 144 adopted by the Commission under the Securities Act) and the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission thereunder, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitations of the exemption provided by Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar or successor rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission. Upon the request of any Holder of Registrable Securities in connection with that Holder's sale pursuant to Rule 144, the Company shall deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements.
 
The Company has not entered into, and agrees not to enter into, any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders herein or that otherwise conflict with the provisions hereof.
 
 
 
 
 
(a)
          
Entire Agreement; Amendments.
This Agreement and the other writings referred to herein (including the Indenture) or delivered pursuant hereto which form a part hereof contain the entire understanding of the parties and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to its subject matter. This Agreement may be amended and the observance of any term of this Agreement may be waived (either generally or in a particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively) only by a written instrument duly executed by the Company and the Majority Holders of the Registrable Securities at the time outstanding.
(b)
          
Notices.
All notices, requests, claims, demands, waivers and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by hand, if delivered personally or by courier, or three days after being deposited in the mail (registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested) as follows:
(i)
           
If to the Company, to it at 1114 Avenue of the Americas, 19th Floor, New York, New York 10036 Attention: General Counsel;
(ii)
          
If to the Dealer Manager, to the address set forth in the Dealer Manager Agreement; and
(iii)
        
If to a Holder, to the address of such Holder set forth in the security register, the Notice and Questionnaire or other records of the Company,
or to such other address as the Company, the Dealer Manager or any such Holder may have furnished to the other parties in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
(c)
          
Remedies
. Nothing shall preclude a Notice Holder or Holder of Registrable Securities from pursuing or obtaining specific performance or other equitable relief with respect to this Agreement.
(d)
          
Successors.
This Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the respective successors and assigns of the parties hereto. In the event that any transferee of any Holder of Registrable Securities shall acquire Registrable Securities, in any manner, whether by gift, bequest, purchase, operation of law or otherwise, such transferee shall, without any further writing or action of any kind, be deemed a party hereto for all purposes and such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such transferee shall be entitled to receive the benefits of, and be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform, all of the applicable terms and provisions of this Agreement.
(e)
          
Survival
. The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and each other provision set forth in this Agreement or made pursuant hereto shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation (or statement as to the
 
 
 
 
results thereof) made by or on behalf of any Holder of Registrable Securities, any director, officer or partner of such Holder, any agent or underwriter or any director, officer or partner thereof, or any controlling person of any of the foregoing, and shall survive delivery of and payment for the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exempted Exchange Material and the transfer and registration of Registrable Securities by such Holder.
(f)
           
Applicable Law.
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW RULES OF SAID STATE.
(g)
          
Headings.
The descriptive headings of the several Sections and paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only, do not constitute a part of this Agreement and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
(h)
          
Counterparts.
This Agreement may be executed by the parties in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such respective counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
(i)
           
Severability
. In the event that any one of more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstances, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way impaired or affected thereby, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(j)
           
Securities Held by the Company, etc
. Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Securities is required hereunder, Securities held by the Company or its Affiliates (other than subsequent Holders of Securities if such subsequent Holders are deemed to be Affiliates solely by reason of their holdings of such Securities) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
 
 
 
 
 
Agreed to and accepted as of the date referred to above.
 
Very truly yours,
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
 
By:
/s/ Nicholas J. Camera         
Name: Nicholas J. Camera
Title: Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UBS SECURITIES LLC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
INTERPUBLIC ANNOUNCES EXCHANGE OF
$400 MILLION OF CONVERTIBLE NOTES
Initial Put Date Extended from 2008 to 2012
 
New York, NY (November 14, 2006)  The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (NYSE: IPG) announced today that it has agreed to exchange $400 million aggregate principal amount of new 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 for the same principal amount of its old 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023. These exchanges are being conducted on a private basis in reliance on Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 with a small number of qualified institutional buyers that currently hold the old notes. The exchanging holders will also receive accrued but unpaid interest on their old notes. The exchanges are expected to close on November 15, 2006.
 
The main differences between the new notes and the old notes are as follows: (a) the interest rate will be lower (4.25% rather than 4.50%), (b) the first call will be later (March 15, 2012 rather than September 15, 2009), (c) the first two dates of repurchase at the option of the holders will be later (March 15, 2012 and March 15, 2015 rather than March 15, 2008 and March 15, 2013) and (d) payment of cash dividends on Interpublic's common stock will trigger an adjustment to the new notes' conversion rate, but will not trigger payment of contingent interest. Like the old notes, the new notes will pay interest semiannually and will mature on March 15, 2023. The conversion provisions of the new notes are substantially similar to the old notes. The new notes are subject to restrictions on transfer as a result of the private placement.
 
# # #
 
The new notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion of the new notes have not been and, at the time of the closing of the transaction, will not be registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws. They may not be offered or sold in the
 
 
 
United States absent registration under, or an applicable exemption from, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
 
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
 
# # #
 
About Interpublic
Interpublic is one of the world's leading organizations of advertising agencies and marketing services companies. Major global brands include DraftFCB Group, FutureBrand, GolinHarris International, Initiative, Jack Morton Worldwide, Lowe Worldwide, MAGNA Global, McCann Erickson, Momentum, MRM, Octagon, Universal McCann and Weber Shandwick. Leading domestic brands include Campbell-Ewald, Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch, Hill Holliday, Mullen and The Martin Agency.
 
# # #
 
Contact Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements. Statements in this release that are not historical facts, including statements about management's beliefs and expectations, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and are subject to change based on a number of factors, including those outlined in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1A, Risk Factors. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following:
Investors should carefully consider these factors and the additional risk factors outlined in more detail in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1A, Risk Factors.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
INTERPUBLIC COMPLETES EXCHANGE OF
$400 MILLION CONVERTIBLE NOTES
 
New York, NY (November 16, 2006)  The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (NYSE: IPG) announced today that it has completed the previously announced exchange of $400 million aggregate principal amount of new 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 for the same principal amount of its old 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023. The exchange was conducted on a private basis in reliance on Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 with a small number of qualified institutional buyers that held the old notes.
 
The main differences between the new notes and the old notes are as follows: (a) the interest rate is lower (4.25% rather than 4.50%), (b) the first call will be later (March 15, 2012 rather than September 15, 2009), (c) the first two dates of repurchase at the option of the holders will be later (March 15, 2012 and March 15, 2015 rather than March 15, 2008 and March 15, 2013) and (d) payment of cash dividends on Interpublic's common stock will trigger an adjustment to the new notes' conversion rate, but will not trigger payment of contingent interest. Like the old notes, the new notes pay interest semiannually and will mature on March 15, 2023. The conversion provisions of the new notes are substantially similar to the old notes. The new notes are subject to restrictions on transfer as a result of the private placement.
 
The exchange is being treated as an extinguishment of the old notes and an issuance of new debt for accounting purposes. The company expects that the new debt will be reflected on Interpublic's balance sheet at its fair value, or approximately $477 million. Interpublic expects to record a non-cash charge to earnings in the fourth quarter of 2006 for the difference between the fair value of the new debt and the carrying value of the old debt, or approximately $77 million. This difference will be amortized through the first put date in 2012, resulting in a reduction of reported interest expense in future periods.
 
 
 
Interpublic has agreed to file a shelf registration statement under the Securities Act for the resale of the new notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion of the new notes. In connection with the issuance of the new notes, Interpublic entered into a new indenture and supplemental indenture.
 
# # #
 
The new notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion of the new notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws. They may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration under, or an applicable exemption from, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
 
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
 
# # #
 
About Interpublic
Interpublic is one of the world's leading organizations of advertising agencies and marketing services companies. Major global brands include DraftFCB Group, FutureBrand, GolinHarris International, Initiative, Jack Morton Worldwide, Lowe Worldwide, MAGNA Global, McCann Erickson, Momentum, MRM, Octagon, Universal McCann and Weber Shandwick. Leading domestic brands include Campbell-Ewald, Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch, Hill Holliday, Mullen and The Martin Agency.
 
# # #
 
Contact Information
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements. Statements in this release that are not historical facts, including statements about management's beliefs and expectations, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and are subject to change based on a number of factors, including those outlined in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1A, Risk Factors. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following:
Investors should carefully consider these factors and the additional risk factors outlined in more detail in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1A, Risk Factors.
 
 
 
 


