FILE:IPG/IPG-8K-20060322164406.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
240.14d -2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e -4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
On March 16, 2006, the Interpublic Group of Companies Inc. ("Interpublic") entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto, to David A. Bell's existing employment agreement with Interpublic (the "Employment Agreement") (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Interpublic's Report on Form 8-K filed on January 21, 2005) in connection with Mr. Bell's retirement effective March 16, 2006 as co-Chairman of Interpublic. Following his retirement, Mr. Bell will serve as Chairman Emeritus of Interpublic. In addition, pursuant to Mr. Bell's existing Employment Agreement, which continues certain terms contained in Mr. Bell
's employment agreements with True North Communications Inc. ("True North"), that remained in place following the acquisition of True North by Interpublic, he will continue to provide consulting services to Interpublic, as discussed below.
The Amendment provides for Interpublic to pay Mr. Bell his base salary for twelve months following his retirement and to provide him with all employee benefits provided to him prior to his retirement (including suitable office space, the services of an assistant and a car and driver) and an amount equivalent to the matching contributions that Interpublic would have made to Mr. Bell under Interpublic's tax-qualified defined contribution plan until the earlier of the first anniversary of his retirement and the date he accepts employment with another employer. The Amendment also memorializes certain arrangements between IPG and Mr. Bell in respect of Interpublic's purchase of a $2,000,000 annuity on Mr. Bell's behalf that was contemplated by the Employment Agreement.
As set forth in Mr. Bell's existing Employment Agreement and consistent with his True North arrangements, Mr. Bell will continue to provide consulting services to Interpublic for five years following his retirement at an annual consulting fee of $750,000. The consulting payments will not commence until six months following Mr. Bell's retirement.
Item 9.01
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
Nicholas J. Camera
Senior Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
 
DEFERRED COMPENSATION AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, David A. Bell ("Executive") and The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ("Interpublic") entered into an employment agreement as of January 18, 2005 (the "Employment Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, Section 11.01 of the Employment Agreement provides that the Employment Agreement may be amended in writing; and
WHEREAS, the Employment Agreement provides for payments that are or might be treated as deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"); and
WHEREAS, Executive and Interpublic intend that no compensation under the Employment Agreement will be subject to adverse tax consequences under the Code.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises set forth herein, the parties agree as follows, effective as of January 18, 2005, except where this Agreement provides otherwise:
 
 
 
 
Interpublic has been at all times, and is as of the date of this Agreement, the sole applicant, owner, and beneficiary of each Annuity Contract; Executive has not had, does not have, and shall not have, any interest in any of the Annuity Contracts.
The amount of each periodic payment shall be calculated in accordance with the terms of the applicable Annuity Contract.
 
 
-2-
 
 
 
For example, if the scheduled Commencement Date is January 1, 2012, any election to defer the Commencement Date must be made before January 1, 2011, and the Commencement Date that Executive elects must occur on or after January 1, 2017 (unless, before that date, Executive dies or is determined to be disabled after having elected for payments to commence upon his death or upon his becoming disabled, as applicable).
 
-3-
 
 
 
 
-4-
 
 
earlier of (i) March 15, 2007, or (ii) the date Executive accepts employment with another company and as if Executive made no contributions to the 401(k) Plan thereafter.
 
-5-
 
 
 
This Agreement sets forth the entire understanding between Interpublic and Executive concerning his employment by Interpublic or any of its parents, affiliates, or subsidiaries (collectively "IPG") and supersedes any and all previous agreements between Executive and IPG concerning such employment and/or any compensation or bonuses. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms of the amendment to this Agreement, dated March 16, 2006, and the Employment Agreement that was in effect before such amendment was executed, the terms of such amendment shall prevail. Each party hereto shall pay its own costs and expenses (including legal fees) incurred in connection with the preparation, negotiation, and execution of this Agreement and such amendment. Any amendment or modification to this Agreement must be set forth in writing and signed by Executive and an authorized director or officer of Interpublic.
*
       
*    
*
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement.
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
 
Michael I. Roth
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
                   David A Bell.                
David A. Bell
 
 
 
 
-6-
 
 
 


