FILE:IPG/IPG-8K-20070914121432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Form 8-K
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
 
On June 29, 2007, The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (the "Company" or "IPG") completed the acquisition of the remaining capital stock of Lintas India Private Limited ("Lintas"). Prior to the acquisition the Company owned 49% of the capital stock, so Lintas is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The stock was acquired from Lintas employees' trusts and the cost of the acquisition, which was calculated based on current results and applicable market multiples, is approximately $50 million payable in cash.
 
The required audited consolidated financial statements of Lintas as of and for the year ended March 31, 2007 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference. These financial statements have been prepared in all material respects in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in India ("Indian GAAP").
 
(b) Pro forma financial information.
 
The required pro forma financial information for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
 
 
This current report on contains forward-looking statements. Statements in this report that are not historical facts, including statements about management's beliefs and expectations, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and are subject to change based on a number of factors, including those outlined in our 2006 Annual Report on under Item 1A, Risk Factors, and other SEC filings. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
Form 8-K
Form 10-K
 
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
Investors should carefully consider these factors and the additional risk factors outlined in more detail in our 2006 Annual Report on under Item 1A, Risk Factors, and other SEC filings.
Form 10-K
Table of Contents
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
 
Nicholas J. Camera
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 
Date: September 14, 2007

 
 
EXHIBIT 23.1
 
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements on and relating to the Management Incentive Compensation Plan of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (the "Company"); Registration Statements on and relating to the 1986 Stock Incentive Plan, the 1986 United Kingdom Stock Option Plan and the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan of the Company; Registration Statements on and relating to the Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company; Registration Statement on relating to The Interpublic Outside Directors' Stock Incentive Plan of the Company; Registration Statement on relating to the 1997 Performance Incentive Plan of the Company; Amendment No. 1 on to Registration Statement on relating to the True North Communications Inc. Stock Option Plan and the Bozell, Jacobs, Kenyon & Eckhardt, Inc. Stock Option Plan; Registration Statement on relating to the 2002 Performance Incentive Plan of the Company; Registration Statement on relating to the 2004 Performance Incentive Plan of the Company; Registration Statement on relating to the Non-Management Directors' Stock Incentive Plan of the Company; Registration Statement on relating to the 2006 Performance Incentive Plan of the Company; Registration Statement on relating to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of the Company (2006) of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.; Registration Statement on relating to the exchange of Floating Rate Notes due 2010 of the Company; Registration Statement on relating to the 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 of the Company; and Registration Statement on relating to the 5/% Series B Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of the Company of our report dated September 12, 2007 relating to the consolidated financial statements of Lintas India Private Limited, which appears in this
Form S-8
No. 33-20291
No. 33-2830
Form S-8
No. 33-5352,
No. 33-21605,
No. 333-4747,
No. 333-23603
Form S-8
No. 33-10087
No. 33-25555
Form S-8
No. 333-28029
Form S-8
No. 333-42675
Form S-8
Form S-4
No. 333-59254
Form S-8
No. 333-89896
Form S-8
No. 333-115923
Form S-8
No. 333-115924
Form S-8
No. 333-134498
Form S-8
No. 333-134497,
Form S-4
No. 333-142196
Form S-3
No. 333-142197
Form S-3
No. 333-142198
1
4
Form 8-K.
 
/s/ 
Price Waterhouse & Co.
Mumbai, India
September 12, 2007

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF LINTAS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED
 
We have audited the consolidated balance sheet of Lintas India Private Limited (the "Company") and its subsidiaries and joint ventures as of March 31, 2007 and the related consolidated profit and loss account and consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by Management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, based on our audit, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Lintas India Private Limited as of March 31, 2007, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in India.
 
/s/ 
Price Waterhouse & Co.
Mumbai, India
September 12, 2007
 
 
 
 
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
This is the Consolidated Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date.
 
 
 
 
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
 
This is the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account referred to in our report of even date.
 
 
 
 
 
The above Consolidated Cash flow statement has been prepared under the indirect method setout in issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Note:
AS-3
 
This is the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement referred to in our report of even date.
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
 
Notes:
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
FIXED ASSETS
[Schedule 16  Note 1 C (c)] (Rupees)
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
 
SCHEDULE 5
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 6
 
 
SCHEDULE 7
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 8
 
 
Note:
The balance in the account in excess of Rs.1,500,000 is converted by the bank into interest bearing short-term deposits.These deposits are broken and transferred by the bank to the current account, as required, to meet the shortfall.
 
SCHEDULE 9
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 10
 
 
SCHEDULE 11
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 12
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 13
 
 
SCHEDULE 14
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 15
 
 
 
 
 
1  Significant Accounting Policies
 
A  Basis of Accounting
 
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared under historical cost convention from the books of account maintained on accrual basis, except for interest on statutory refunds, which is accounted only if received before the date of approval of the Accounts, and comply with the Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and referred to in Section 211(3C) of the Companies Act,1956, of India.
 
B  Principles of Consolidation
 
(i) The consolidated financial statements relate to Lintas India Private Limited (the Company), its Subsidiary Companies and Joint Venture Companies. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the following basis:
 
(a) The financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiary Companies have been combined on a basis by adding together the book values of like items of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, after fully eliminating intra-group balances, intra-group transactions and resulting unrealised profits or losses on intra-group transactions.
line-by-line
 
(b) The difference between the cost of investment in the subsidiaries over the Company's portion of equity of the subsidiary is recognized in the financial statements as Goodwill or Capital Reserve.
 
 
 
(d) In the consolidated financial statements, the Company has reported its interest in the Joint Venture Companies, using proportionate consolidation method whereby the Company's share of each of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the jointly controlled entities is reported as separate line items, after eliminating proportionate unrealised profits or losses attributable to the interest of the Company.
 
(e) The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other events in similar circumstances and are prepared to the extent possible, in the same manner as the Company's separate financial statements.
 
(f) As this is the first year of reporting consolidated financial statements, figures for the previous year are not given.
 
 
 
(ii) The Subsidiary Companies and Joint Venture Companies considered in the consolidated financial statements are:
 
 
 
 
C  Other Significant Accounting Policies
 
(a) Commission and Service Fees
 
(i) Commission and service fees represent income from jobs completed on behalf of clients.
 
(ii) Commission in respect of advertisements, which requires performance of only creative work, is recognised in the period during which the advertisement is published or aired, based on the management's estimates and / or statements received from the client or the agency on record.
 
(iii) Retainer fees are accounted on an accrual basis over the period of contract.
 
(b) Employee Benefits
 
(i) The Company, its subsidiaries and jointly controlled entity makes regular contribution to approved provident, pension and superannuation funds. These contributions are charged to the Profit and Loss Account.
 
(ii) The liability for gratuity is determined on the basis of an actuarial valuation by an independent actuary at the year end.
 
(iii) In respect of the Company, its subsidiaries and jointly controlled entity, provision towards accrued leave is made based on the accrued leave balances, as per its policy, for each employee on its rolls as at the year end.
 
(c) Fixed Assets and Depreciation
 
(i) Fixed Assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
 
(ii) Depreciation on Fixed Assets is provided on the written down value method at the rates specified in Schedule XIV to the Companies Act, 1956, of India, except for computer software, which is amortised on the straight-line method over a period of three years. On additions, depreciation is provided for the full year irrespective of the dates of additions during the year. On assets sold, discarded,
 
 
 
demolished or destroyed during the year, no depreciation is provided during the year. All fixed assets individually costing Rs. 5,000 and less are depreciated fully in the year of acquisition.
 
 
 
 
(g) Foreign Exchange transactions
 
(i) Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rates prevailing on the date of such transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities as at the Balance Sheet date are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the date of the Balance Sheet. Gain and losses arising on account of differences in foreign exchange rates on settlement / translation of monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Non-monetary foreign currency items are carried at cost.
 
(ii) Gains and Losses on account of foreign exchange fluctuation in respect of liabilities in foreign currencies specific to acquisition of fixed assets are adjusted to the carrying cost of the respective fixed assets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
year-end and production jobs completed prior to the year-end, respectively, the debit notes for which are being raised subsequently.
 
3  Contingent liabilities
 
(i) Claims to the extent ascertainable, not acknowledged as debts Rs. 4,079,878.
 
(ii) Disputed income-tax matters aggregating Rs. 32,308,314, details of which are as under:
 
(a) In respect of Assessment Year Rs. 14,474,910 being penalty under Section 271(1)(c) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The matter was decided in the Company's favour at the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals). However, the income tax department has preferred an appeal to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal against the order of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals).
1994-95,
 
(b) In respect of Assessment Year Rs. 6,216,065 being the effect of certain disallowances by the Income Tax authorities. The matter was decided in the Company's favour at the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals). However, the income tax department has preferred an appeal to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal against the order of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals).
1997-98,
 
(c) In respect of Assessment Year Rs. 4,778,402 being the effect of certain disallowances by the Income Tax authorities. The matter was decided in the Company's favour at the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals). However, the income tax department has preferred an appeal to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal against the order of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals).
1998-99,
 
(d) In respect of Assessment Year Rs. 2,224,834 being the effect of certain disallowances by the Income Tax authorities. The matter was decided in the Company's favour at the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals). However, the income tax department has preferred an appeal to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal against the order of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals).
1999-00,
 
(e) In respect of a subsidiary of the Company, for Assessment Year Rs. 486,243 being penalty under Section 271(1)(c) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, against which an appeal has been preferred to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal.
2001-02,
 
(f) In respect of a subsidiary of the Company, for Assessment Year Rs. 3,907,769 being the effect of a disallowance by the Income Tax authorities. The matter was decided in the subsidiary's favour by the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals). However, the income tax department has preferred an appeal to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal against the order of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals).
2003-04,
 
(g) In respect of a subsidiary of the Company, for Assessment Year Rs. 220,091 being the effect of a disallowance by the Income Tax authorities against which the appeal has been preferred to the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals).
2004-05,
 
The timing and the amount of cash outflows, if any, that may arise from the above matters will be determined only on settlement of the cases.
 
4  Segmental Information
 
In accordance with the requirements of Accounting Standard 17 on Segment Reporting, the Companies forming part of consolidated financial statements are exclusively engaged in the business of "Advertising". Thus the segment revenue, segment results, total carrying amount of segment assets, total carrying amount of segment liabilities, total cost incurred to acquire segments assets, the total amount of charge for depreciation
 
 
 
during the year are all as reflected in the Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2007 and as on that date.
 
5  (i)  Related Party Disclosures
 
 
 
 
5  (ii)  The following transactions were carried out with related parties mentioned in (i) above.
 
 
 
Figures in brackets indicate income
 
5  (iii)  The following are balances of related parties mentioned in (i) above.
 
 
 
Figures in brackets indicate liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Group's interest in jointly controlled entities (incorporated Joint Ventures) are:
 
 
 
 
As lessee/licensee
 
(i) The Company, its subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities have taken various residential, office and godown premises under operating lease or leave and license agreements. These are not non-cancellable and
 
 
 
range between 11 months and 9 years 11 months and are renewable by mutual consent on mutually agreeable terms.
 
(ii) Lease payments are recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss Account under Rent' in Schedule 15.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The timing and the amount of cash outflows, if any, that may arise from the above matters will be determined only on settlement of the cases.
 
 
On 29th June 2007, the A' shareholders transferred 20,750 equity shares of Rs. 100 each to Interpublic Mauritius Limited (a subsidiary of Interpublic Group of Companies) as per Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) approval dated 31st May 2007. Subsequent to this transfer, the entire share capital of the Company is now held by two Overseas corporate bodies  Lowe & Partners Worldwide Inc. and Interpublic Mauritius Limited, both being subsidiaries of Interpublic Group of Companies.

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
Unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2007 is as follows:
 
($ in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
Unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 is as follows:
 
($ in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
Note 1: Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
 
On June 29, 2007, The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (the "Company" or "IPG") completed the acquisition of the remaining capital stock of Lintas India Private Limited ("Lintas"). Prior to the acquisition the Company owned 49% of the capital stock, so Lintas is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The stock was acquired from Lintas employees' trusts and the cost of the acquisition, which was calculated based on current results and applicable market multiples, is approximately $50 million payable in cash.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations give effect to the acquisition of Lintas using the purchase method of accounting under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP") for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and for the year ended December 31, 2006 as if the acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2006. The purchase price in excess of the estimated fair value of the tangible net assets acquired was allocated to goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Lintas does not have significant amounts of tangible assets, therefore a substantial portion of the total consideration has been allocated to goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. The Company is in the process of obtaining final third party valuations for the intangible assets and adjustments could be made to the preliminary values assigned to the assets and liabilities acquired that would primarily be offset by a change in goodwill. The final determination of the estimated fair value of the acquired net assets will be completed as soon as possible, but no later than one year from the June 29, 2007 acquisition date.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations are presented for illustrative purposes and are not indicative of the results of operations that would have been achieved if the acquisition had been completed earlier or of future operating results. The historical IPG condensed consolidated
 
statements of operations have been derived from and should be read in conjunction with the financial statements of IPG for the six months ended June 30, 2007 (unaudited) and for the year ended December 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The condensed consolidated statement of operations for Lintas for the six months ended June 30, 2007 has been derived from its unaudited consolidated financial statements from January 1 through June 30 of 2007. The condensed consolidated statement of operations for Lintas for the year ended December 31, 2006 has been derived from and should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements of Lintas for the year ended March 31, 2007 attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Note 2: Adjustments
 
Adjustments primarily were made to conform Lintas' consolidated financial statements which were prepared in accordance with Indian GAAP to U.S. GAAP. The Company prepared a reconciliation of net profit and shareholders' funds prepared in accordance with Indian GAAP to Lintas' comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The reconciling items were as follows:
 
 Lintas has lease payments related to various operating leases that have scheduled rent increases associated with them. Under U.S. GAAP, an adjustment was recorded so that the effects of those scheduled rent increases were recognized by the lessee on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease Amortization
 
 An adjustment was recorded to reclassify these costs as office & general expenses as they are classified after provision for current tax under Indian GAAP.
Fringe Tax Benefits
 
 An adjustment was recorded to adjust the current investments to fair value because under Indian GAAP current investments are stated at cost or fair value, whichever is lower and long-term investments are carried at cost.
Investments
 
 Lintas has joint ventures which are consolidated for Indian GAAP purposes. An adjustment was recorded to comply with equity method accounting under U.S. GAAP, which primarily affected revenue and operating expenses.
Equity Investments
 
 An adjustment was recorded in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 23, , to record deferred taxes on undistributed profits as the transfer of these earnings from Lintas's subsidiaries and joint ventures to the parent company in India is relatively certain.
Undistributed Profits
Accounting for Income Taxes  Special Areas
 
 An adjustment was recorded for minority interest related to the adjustment to undistributed profits related to investments in entities where Lintas is a minority owner.
Minority Interest
 
Adjustments were also made to conform Lintas' consolidated financial statements with the Company's policies related to depreciation of fixed assets and provision for doubtful accounts and for certain other pro forma adjustments related to equity in net income of Lintas and amortization of intangible assets.


