FILE:IPG/IPG-8K-20080430090838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
_______________________
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): April 30, 2008
 
The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
On April 30, 2008, The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (i) held a conference call to discuss its results for the first quarter of 2008, in which officers of the company delivered the prepared remarks attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein, and (ii) posted an investor presentation, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein, on its website in connection with the conference call.
 
 
Exhibit 99.1: Conference call prepared remarks dated April 30, 2008 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02)
 
Exhibit 99.2: Investor presentation dated April 30, 2008 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02)
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Michael
:
 
Thank you, Jerry and thank you all for joining us this morning as we review our first quarter results.
 
I'll begin by covering some of the highlights of our performance. Frank will then take us through the results in detail. After his remarks, I'll return with closing comments before we move on to the Q&A.
 
Our performance for the quarter was strong, fueled by continued progress in many areas of the business. Organic revenue growth of 5.1% is in line with the industry. And, we are beginning to see a broader cross-section of our companies contribute to our results on this key growth metric. Operating margin also improved significantly, which demonstrates that the tools and the people we have been putting in place across the organization are leading to more effective cost controls.
 
 
 
As a result of our continued improvement on both the top line and in our ability to drive profitability, we narrowed the seasonal first quarter operating loss from $124 million in 2007 to $58 million this year. The loss applicable to common shareholders declined by about half, from $0.29 per share in last year's Q1 to $0.15 this past quarter.
 
In terms of the organic growth result, there are a number of things that should be called out. Performance is improving across our portfolio and at our operations outside of the United States. The drivers of domestic organic revenue growth were McCann and the CMG companies, as well as our US independents. Our media agencies, Lowe and Draftfcb all contributed to improved performance in key regions such as Europe, Asia and Latin America.
 
On our year-end call back in February, we mentioned that the tone of the business was solid and that continues to be the case. On that call, we listed some
 
of the wins from the first half of the first quarter, such as Magnum Ice Cream and China Mobile at Lowe, as well as Hyundai/Kia and Cadbury-Schweppes at Initiative. We've seen a steady stream of additional activity since then, with McCann, MRM and Universal McCann jointly winning Cadillac and Dodge business in China, while Draftfcb picked up the Chevrolet business in the UK and a number of Kraft Foods assignments in international markets.
 
Deutsch won Dr. Pepper, which was a high-profile pitch, as was McCann's Staples win in the UK. More recently, we're seeing a significant expansion of our relationship with Nokia, which uses a full range of IPG agencies across the marketing disciplines. And the Knorr win last week adds an important global brand to Lowe's growing list of Unilever assignments.
 
Of course, it goes without saying that clients remain cautious due to the broader economic concerns. To date, we are not seeing signs of a pullback, but we
 
continue to monitor the situation closely  so as to be able to respond quickly should the need arise.
 
Our progress in terms of financial systems and talent has given us better visibility into the organization and gives us confidence that we have the right tools with which to manage the business. As we have built these tools and discipline, we have also seen a significant improvement in profitability, quarter to quarter, going back to early 2006.
 
As always, Frank will provide an in-depth review of our results. Before I hand it over to him, however, there is one item on which I'd like to comment. If you've taken a look at our press release this morning, you will see that we have recognized a provision of $12 million related to the SEC investigation of our past restatements. We now have enough of a basis to make this estimate of monetary liability in connection with this matter and we'd like to update you on the situation as it currently stands.
 
 
We are in advanced settlement discussions with the SEC staff, although we cannot at this time predict with certainty the outcome of these negotiations or detail the nature of the Commission's allegations. We believe they will concern issues from past periods that we have previously disclosed. As you know, we have devoted considerable resource to replacing staff in the relevant areas of our business  we do not expect that we will need to take further action as a result of the complaint. We also expect that the Commission will be in position to make an announcement shortly regarding the resolution of this serious matter. At that time, we'll have a more detailed public statement.
 
As you can appreciate, this puts us in a highly unusual and awkward position this morning, but there is no additional information that we can share with you at this time. I would add, however, that it will be significant for us to finally put this issue behind us so that we can continue to focus on growing our business.
 
 
 
At this point, I'd like to hand things over to Frank for the full details on our results...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Frank Mergenthaler
 
Overview  First Quarter 2008
 
Good morning. Let me remind everyone that the presentation slides which accompany our remarks are available on our website.
 
As Michael indicated in his comments, we are very pleased with first quarter results and believe they represent a strong start to the year.
 
Among highlights in the quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Michael mentioned the very positive result these factors had in cutting our first quarter operating loss by more than half. Our Q1 operating margin improved by over 500 basis points. You will recall that our full-year target for margin growth is in a range around 300 basis points. So the year is clearly off to a solid start.
 
Operating Performance  Q1-2008
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue  Q1 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue  Q1 2008 Geographic Region
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Organic Revenue Growth LTM
 
On slide 6, we present a longer view of organic revenue growth, presented on a trailing twelve month basis. This
 
chart effectively demonstrates the trajectory of the business and underscores what Michael mentioned about not focusing excessively on any individual quarter. As you can see, organic revenue growth is trending well. Over the last twelve months, this key measure of vitality was 4.6%.
 
Expenses  Salaries & Related and O&G  Q1 2008
 
On slide 7, we move on to a closer look at operating expenses.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjusted Operating Margin LTM
 
 
Cash Flow
 
 
 
07. This significant improvement was due to our decreased net loss and lower use of cash in working capital.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance Sheet  Current Portion
 
 
 
Debt Maturity Schedule
 
 
 
net debt declined $200 million as well from the seasonally-comparable level a year ago.
 
Summary
 
In summary, on slide 12, we turned in our best Q1 performance in many years. With that said, we remain cautiously optimistic about our business given macro economic pressures. As Michael indicated, the tone of our business has remained sound and actual client spending levels, broadly speaking, are in line with our expectations for this point in the year.
 
As important, we continue to leverage improved talent and tools for better financial visibility and control. As a result, our operations are increasingly disciplined and able to drive significant improvement, as evident in the results we are sharing with you today. Our Q1 tells us that the year and our turnaround are on track.
 
Now I'll to hand the call back to Michael.
 
 
Michael:
 
Thank you, Frank.
 
As you can see, our performance in the first quarter represents a good start to the year. Growth was balanced from existing and new clients, across the marketing disciplines. We continued to see demand for digital, marketing services, integrated solutions, and high value strategic thinking in advertising and media, as well as strong capabilities in the emerging economies.
 
While these are challenging times, the disruptive changes that are affecting media and marketing represent an opportunity for us to help clients as they look to engage with their customers in an increasingly complex consumer landscape. We have mentioned previously that every one of our agencies is adapting to this new reality. We are successfully integrating digital capabilities and know-how across the operating
 
units, so the growth in both the IAN and CMG segments reflects increased strength in emerging media. We will keep investing, primarily in talent and professional development, to capitalize on the digial marketing opportunity. And we believe that, as a result of this, our offerings are increasingly competitive, across the board.
 
On past calls, we've said that growth at McCann Worldgroup and CMG is due to the actions taken to strengthen talent and build new services at those units during 2005 and 2006. We have also discussed the strength of our integrated US independents and the modern agency model we introduced at Draftfcb, which posted solid first quarter performance.
 
This quarter, it is gratifying to tell you that Lowe's results contributed to our improved margins and to see the agency so active and successful on the new business front. It also bears mention that our media agencies, which saw a dramatic turnaround in 2007,
 
continued to show very good progress in the first quarter. The alignment strategy we introduced in late 2006 is paying dividends with clients, and the task force that we put in place late last year to drive synergies is further improving performance at all our media agencies.
 
To build on this momentum, we must stay focused on seeing to it that our units execute against their operating plans. We have to stay close to our clients and be responsive to their needs. We will also continue to be open to strategic opportunities that enhance our offerings, particularly in the digital arena or in high-growth markets. And, like every type of business at this juncture, we'll continue to monitor the broader economic situation closely.
 
We've consistently said that, as we move through the turnaround, our progress will not be linear. We continue to caution you against using a single quarter to extrapolate future performance. Nonetheless, we
 
are pleased with the results that we've shared with you today.
 
Continued progress in organic growth and in cost control is driving significant improvement in our margins. The quarter's performance is further evidence that we have IPG on the right track  and that we remain on track to deliver on our stated financial targets for 2008 and to achieve our ultimate goal of enhancing long-term shareholder value.
 
Thank you.
 
Now, let's open the floor up for questions...
 
 
Cautionary Statement
 
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements. Statements in these prepared remarks that are not historical facts, including statements about management's beliefs and expectations, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and are subject to change based on a number of factors, including those outlined in our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1A, Risk Factors. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following:
Investors should carefully consider these factors and the additional risk factors outlined in more detail in our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1A, Risk Factors.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2


