FILE:IPG/IPG-8K-20090615213116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (the "Company") entered into the following agreements:
 
 
The disclosure under Item 2.03 of this report with respect to the entry into the above agreements is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation.
On June 15, 2009, the Company issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of Notes in a private placement pursuant to the Senior Debt Indenture, as amended and supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture. The Notes will mature on July 15, 2017. The Notes will pay interest at a rate of 10.0% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears, commencing on January 15, 2010. Holders of the Notes will be entitled to the payment of additional interest under certain circumstances set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement as described below.
The Notes are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company and rank with all other unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company and effectively junior to all secured obligations of the Company to the extent of the secured creditors' security in the Company's assets. The Notes are not guaranteed and are not subject to any sinking fund. The Notes are structurally subordinated to the rights of creditors of the Company's subsidiaries.
pari passu
Prior to July 15, 2013, the Company may redeem the Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus a "make-whole" premium, together with accrued and unpaid interest. On or after July 15, 2013, the Company may redeem the Notes at the redemption prices set forth in the Seventh Supplemental Indenture. In addition, on or prior to July 15, 2009, the Company may redeem the Notes either in whole or, if in part, up to a maximum of $200 million in aggregate principal amount at their accreted value plus 1.0% of their principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if the terms, conduct or results of the Company's cash tender offers for certain of the Company's outstanding senior unsecured debt securities are not satisfactory to the Company in its sole judgment.
Upon the occurrence of a change of control, as defined in the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the holders of the Notes will have the right to require the Company to purchase their Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest. The Senior Debt Indenture and the Seventh Supplemental Indenture provide for customary events of default and further provide that either the trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the then-
 
outstanding Notes may declare the principal of and interest, including any additional interest, on all Notes to be due and payable, together with accrued interest upon the occurrence of certain events of default after expiration of any applicable grace period.
The Senior Debt Indenture and the Seventh Supplemental Indenture contain certain limitations on the ability of the Company and certain majority-owned subsidiaries to grant liens without equally and ratably securing the Notes or to enter into certain sale and lease-back transactions. These covenants are subject to a number of important exceptions and limitations, as further described in the Senior Debt Indenture and the Seventh Supplemental Indenture.
In connection with the issuance of the Notes, the Company also entered into the Registration Rights Agreement. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company agrees to file an exchange offer registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") no later than 180 days after the closing of the offering of the Notes to allow holders of the Notes to exchange their Notes for an equal principal amount of notes with substantially identical terms, except that the notes issued in the exchange will generally be freely transferable under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). In addition, the Company agrees, under various circumstances, to file a shelf registration statement with the SEC to cover resales of the Notes, as set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. If the Company fails to satisfy the foregoing obligations, it will be required to pay additional interest as liquidated damages to the holders of the Notes. In the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed to indemnify the holders of the Notes and the initial purchasers against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act, or contribute to payments that the holders of the Notes or the initial purchasers may be required to make in respect of those liabilities.
Until the Company registers the Notes under the Securities Act or exchanges the Notes for notes registered under the Securities Act, the Notes will be subject to restrictions on transferability and resale. The Company does not intend to apply for a listing of the Notes on any securities exchange or an automated dealer quotation system.
The description of the Notes, the Senior Debt Indenture and the Seventh Supplemental Indenture governing the Notes, and the Registration Rights Agreement set forth above does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of each of (i) the Senior Debt Indenture, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 15, 2004, (ii) the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto and (iii) the Registration Rights Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
On June 15, 2009, the Company issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein, announcing issue of the Notes.
 
Exhibit 4.1: Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 15, 2009, to the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of November 12, 2004, creating a series of securities designated 10.0% Senior Notes Due 2017 (filed pursuant to Items 1.01 and 2.03).
 
Exhibit 10.1: Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of June 15, 2009, between the Company and Morgan Stanley and Co. Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC, as representatives of the several initial purchasers (filed pursuant to Items 1.01 and 2.03).
Exhibit 99.1: Press Release, dated June 15, 2009 (filed pursuant to Item 8.01).
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
Execution Copy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEVENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of June 15, 2009 between THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "") and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association under the laws of the United States of America and having a corporate trust office in Atlanta, Georgia, as trustee (the "").
Company
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank (to the interests of which as indenture trustee the Trustee has succeeded) a Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of November 12, 2004 (the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of its senior unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (the ""), to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Base Indenture;
Base Indenture
Securities
WHEREAS, Section 9.01(7) of the Base Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee may from time to time enter into one or more indentures supplemental thereto to establish the form or terms of Securities of a new series;
WHEREAS, Section 3.01 of the Base Indenture provides that the Company may enter into supplemental indentures to establish the terms and provisions of a series of Securities issued pursuant to the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Company, pursuant to the foregoing authority, proposes in and by this Seventh Supplemental Indenture (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "") to supplement the Base Indenture in so far as it will apply only to a series of Securities to be known as the Company's "10.0% Senior Notes due 2017" (the "") issued hereunder (and not to any other series);
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Notes
WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture to establish the Notes as a series of Securities under the Base Indenture and to provide for, among other things, the issuance of and the form and terms of the Notes for purposes of the Notes and the Holders thereof; and
WHEREAS, all things necessary have been done to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered hereunder and duly issued by the Company, the valid obligations of the Company, and to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with their and its terms.
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and the purchase and acceptance of the Notes by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes, as follows:
SECTION 1.01 .
Provisions of the Base Indenture
Except insofar as herein otherwise expressly provided, all the definitions, provisions, terms and conditions of the Base Indenture shall remain in full force and effect. The Base Indenture, as amended and supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and considered as one and the same instrument for all purposes and every Holder of Notes authenticated and delivered under the Base Indenture shall be bound hereby.
SECTION 1.02 For all purposes of the Indenture relating to the series of Securities (consisting of the Notes) created hereby, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the subject matter or context otherwise requires:
Definitions
.
(a) unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article" or a "Section" refers to an Article or Section, as the case may be, of this Supplemental Indenture;
(b) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(c) each capitalized term that is used in this Supplemental Indenture but not defined herein shall have the meaning specified in the Base Indenture;
(d) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, or defined by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and not otherwise defined herein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(e) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP;
(f) the word "including" (and with correlative meaning "include") means including, without limiting the generality of, any description preceding such term;
(g) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to the Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; and
(h) references to payments on the Notes shall include Additional Interest payable under the Registration Rights Agreement, if any.
"" means a Global Security in the form of hereto bearing the Global Security Legend and the Restricted Securities Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee that shall be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount at maturity of the Securities sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Security
Exhibit A
 
"" means all additional interest owing on the Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
"" means, with respect to any Note on any redemption date, the greater of:
Applicable Premium
(1) 1.0% of the principal amount of the Note; and
(2) the excess of:
(a) the present value at such redemption date of (i) the redemption price of the Note at July 15, 2013 (such redemption price being set forth in the table appearing in Section 2.03(f)(ii)), plus (ii) all required interest payments due on the Note through July 15, 2013, computed using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate as of such redemption date plus 50 basis points; over
(b) the principal amount of the Note.
"" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Security, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange.
Applicable Procedures
"" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Base Indenture
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that in calculating the beneficial ownership of any particular "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), such "person" shall be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such "person" has the right to acquire by conversion or exercise of other securities, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition. The terms "" and "" shall have corresponding meanings.
Beneficial Owner
Beneficially Owns
Beneficially Owned
"" means:
Board of Directors
(1) with respect to a corporation, the board of directors of the corporation or, except in the context of the definitions of "Change of Control" and "Continuing Directors," a duly authorized committee thereof;
(2) with respect to a partnership, the Board of Directors of the general partner of the partnership or, if the partnership has more than one general partner, the managing general partner of the partnership; and
(3) with respect to any other Person, the board or committee of such Person serving a similar function.
 
"" means any broker-dealer that receives Exchange Notes for its own account in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Notes that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities.
Broker-Dealer
"" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, which is not a day on which banking institutions in New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Business Day
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act);
(2) the adoption by the Company's shareholders of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution;
(3) the Company (by way of a report or any other filing pursuant to Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, proxy, vote, written notice or otherwise) becomes aware of the acquisition by any "person" or "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or Section 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act, or any successor provision), including any group acting for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of securities (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) under the Exchange Act, or any successor provision), in a single transaction or in a series of related transactions, by way of merger, consolidation or other business combination or purchase of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, or any successor provision) of more than 50% of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company;
(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company are not Continuing Directors; or
(5) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where immediately after such transaction, no "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of more than 50% of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the surviving or transferee Person.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.04(a).
Change of Control Offer
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.04(a).
Change of Control Payment
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.04(a).
Change of Control Payment Date
 
"" means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, Luxembourg (formerly Cedel Bank, socit anonyme), and any successor thereto.
Clearstream
"" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Company
"" means, as of any date of determination, those members of the Board of Directors of the Company, each of whom (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the Issue Date; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(c)(ii).
Defaulted Interest
"" means a certificated Security registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, substantially in the form of hereto, and such Security shall not bear the Global Security Legend.
Definitive Security
Exhibit A
"" shall mean the Depository Trust Company or any successor thereto.
Depositary
"" means any Capital Stock that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible, or for which it is exchangeable, in each case at the option of the holder thereof), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder thereof, in whole or in part, on or prior to the date that is 91 days after the date on which the Notes mature. The term "Disqualified Stock" shall also include any options, warrants or other rights that are convertible into Disqualified Stock or that are redeemable at the option of the holder, or required to be redeemed, prior to the date that is 91 days after the date on which the Notes mature.
Disqualified Stock
"" means Euroclear Bank, S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear system, or its successor.
Euroclear
"" means the Securities issued in the Exchange Offer in accordance with Section 3.03(f) hereof.
Exchange Notes
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
"" means with respect to the Notes issued hereunder, one or more global notes which are executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and which shall bear the Global Security Legend.
Global Securities
 
"" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06 of the Base Indenture.
Global Security Legend
"" means a Person in whose name a Note is registered in the Security Register.
Holder
"" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Indenture
"" means an entity that, with respect to The Depository Trust Company, clears through or maintains a direct or indirect, custodial relationship with a Participant.
Indirect Participant
"" means Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., UBS Securities LLC, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., ING Financial Markets LLC and Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
Initial Purchasers
"" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, who is not also a QIB.
Institutional Accredited Investor
"" means January 15 and July 15 of each year.
Interest Payment Date
"" means the period commencing on, and including, an Interest Payment Date for the Notes and ending on, and including, the day before the next succeeding Interest Payment Date for the Notes. The initial Interest Period shall commence on the Issue Date and end on January 14, 2010.
Interest Period
"" means the date of this Supplemental Indenture.
Issue Date
"" means a Global Security in the form of hereto bearing the Global Security Legend, the Regulation S Temporary Global Note Legend and the Restricted Securities Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount at maturity of the Securities initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Legended Regulation S Global Security
Exhibit A
"" means the letter of transmittal to be prepared by the Company and sent to all Holders of the Securities for use by such Holders in connection with the Exchange Offer.
Letter of Transmittal
"" means the date on which the principal of the Notes becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by call for redemption or otherwise.
Maturity
"" means a Person who is not a U.S. Person.
Non-U.S. Person
"" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Notes
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, any Assistant Controller, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of such Person.
Officer
"" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to The Depository Trust Company, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
"" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Notes on behalf of the Company. The Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of the Company may act as Paying Agent with respect to any Notes issued hereunder.
Paying Agent
"," "" or "" of a Note means the principal of the Note.
Principal
Principal Amount
principal
"" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
"" when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture.
Redemption Date
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated the Issue Date, between the Company and the Initial Purchasers.
Registration Rights Agreement
"" means January 1 and July 1 (whether or not a Business Day).
Regular Record Date
"" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
"" means a Legended Regulation S Global Security or an Unlegended Regulation S Global Security, as appropriate.
Regulation S Global Security
"" means the legend set forth in Section 3.03(h) hereof, which is required to be placed on all Legended Regulation S Global Securities issued under the Indenture.
Regulation S Temporary Global Note Legend
"" means, for any Restricted Security (or beneficial interest therein) the date on which the Company instructs the Trustee in writing to remove the Restricted Securities Legend from the Restricted Security in accordance with the procedures described in this Supplemental Indenture (which instruction is expected to be given on or about the one-year anniversary of the issuance of such Restricted Security).
Resale Restriction Termination Date
" means a Definitive Security bearing the Restricted Securities Legend.
"Restricted Definitive Security
"" means a Global Security bearing the Restricted Securities Legend.
Restricted Global Security
 
"" means the 40-day distribution compliance period as defined in Regulation S.
Restricted Period
"" means the legend containing the transfer restrictions set forth in Section 3.03(g)(i) hereof.
Restricted Securities Legend
"" means a Restricted Definitive Security or a Restricted Global Security.
Restricted Security
"" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
"" has the meaning specified in the recitals.
Securities
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" means the register, in such office as the Company shall keep at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or in any office or agency to be maintained by the Company in accordance with Section 3.05 of the Base Indenture, in which the Company shall, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, provide for the registration of Securities and of registration of transfers of Securities.
Security Register
"" means such Person appointed for the purpose of registering Securities and transfer of Securities in accordance with Section 3.05 of the Base Indenture. The Trustee is hereby appointed Security Registrar.
Security Registrar
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement relating to registering the Notes under the Securities Act.
Shelf Registration Statement
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(f)(iii).
Special Redemption Period
"" means July 15, 2017.
Stated Maturity
"" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Supplemental Indenture
"" means the Company's offers, commencing June 8, 2009, to purchase for cash (i) any and all of the Company's 5.40% Notes due 2009 and (ii) up to $500,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.25% Notes due 2011 and the Company's Floating Rate Notes due 2010.
Tender Offers
"" means, as of any Redemption Date, the yield to maturity as of such Redemption Date of United States Treasury securities with a constant maturity (as compiled and published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (519) that has become publicly available at least two Business Days prior to the Redemption Date (or, if such Statistical Release is no longer published, any publicly available source of similar market data)) most nearly equal to the period from the Redemption Date to July 15, 2013; , , that if the period from the Redemption Date to July 15, 2013 is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year will be used.
Treasury Rate
provided
however
 
"" has the meaning provided in the recitals and, subject to the provisions of Article 6 of the Base Indenture, any successor to that person.
Trustee
"" means a permanent Global Security in the form of hereto bearing the Global Security Legend and the Restricted Securities Legend, deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee and issued in an aggregate amount of denominations equal in total to the outstanding Principal Amount of the Legended Regulation S Global Security upon expiration of the Restricted Period.
Unlegended Regulation S Global Security
Exhibit A
"" means a Definitive Security that does not bear and is not required to bear the Restricted Securities Legend.
Unrestricted Definitive Security
"" means a Global Security not bearing the Restricted Securities Legend.
Unrestricted Global Security
"" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(k) under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
"" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the Capital Stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the Board of Directors of such person.
Voting Stock
SECTION 2.01 In accordance with Section 3.01 of the Base Indenture, there is hereby created a series of Securities under the Indenture entitled "10.0% Senior Notes due 2017".
Creation of Series; Establishment of Form
.
(a) The form of the Notes, including the form of the certificate of authentication, is attached hereto as .
Exhibit A
(b) The Trustee shall authenticate or deliver the Notes for original issue in an initial aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000 upon a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of the Notes. The Company may from time to time issue additional Notes in accordance with Section 3.01 of the Base Indenture. The Notes issued originally hereunder, together with any additional Notes subsequently issued, shall be treated as a single class for purposes of the Indenture.
(c) The aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes shall be due and payable at the Stated Maturity unless earlier repaid in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture.
(d) The outstanding Principal Amount of the Notes shall bear interest at a rate of 10.0% per annum, from June 15, 2009 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, as the case may be, payable semiannually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing on January 15, 2010, and at Maturity, to the Person
 
in whose name the Notes are registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date, until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment. Interest on the Notes will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
(e) If any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Change of Control Payment Date or Maturity date is not a Business Day, the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest (including any Additional Interest), as applicable, will be made on the next succeeding Business Day, except that if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date will be the immediately preceding Business Day. No interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Change of Control Payment Date or the Maturity date, as the case may be, to the date payment is made.
(f) All amounts payable in connection with the Notes shall be denominated and payable in the lawful currency of the United States.
(g) The Notes shall be payable and may be presented for registration of transfer and exchange, without service charge, at the office of the Company maintained for such purpose in the State of New York, City of New York, Borough of Manhattan, which shall initially be the office or agency of the Trustee.
(h) The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Security Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee, except that the Company will maintain at least one Paying Agent in the State of New York, City of New York, Borough of Manhattan. The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any agent not a party to the Indenture. The agreement shall implement the provisions of the Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent and any change in the address of such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Paying Agent, Security Registrar and/or agent for service of notices and demands, the Trustee shall act as such Paying Agent, Security Registrar or agent for service of notices and demands. The Company may remove any Paying Agent or Security Registrar upon written notice to such Paying Agent or Security Registrar and the Trustee; that no such removal shall become effective until (i) the acceptance of an appointment by a successor Paying Agent or Security Registrar as evidenced by an appropriate agency agreement entered into by the Company and such successor and delivered to the Trustee or (ii) notification to the Trustee that the Trustee shall serve as such Paying Agent or Security Registrar until the appointment of a successor agent in accordance with clause (i) of this proviso. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Security Registrar or co-registrar.
provided
(i) Article 12 of the Base Indenture shall have no force or effect in respect of, or application to, the Notes.
(j) The Base Indenture is hereby amended, with respect to the Notes only, by replacing the words, "other than the Securities of such series" with the words "other than the 10.0% Senior Notes due 2017" in paragraph (5) of Section 5.01.
 
SECTION 2.02 .
Payment of Principal or Interest
(a) . Payments of principal and interest on the Notes shall be made in the manner provided for in the Notes.
Payments
(b) . The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders. If the Trustee is not the Security Registrar, the Company shall furnish, or cause the Security Registrar to furnish, to the Trustee, in writing at least five Business Days before each Interest Payment Date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Holders.
Holder Lists
(c) .
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved
(i) Semiannual interest on any Notes that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Notes are registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose. Each installment of interest on any Notes shall be paid in same-day funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located inside the United States. In the case of a Global Security, semiannual interest payable on any applicable Interest Payment Date will be paid to the Depositary, with respect to that portion of such Global Security held for its account by Cede & Co., for the purpose of permitting such party to credit the interest received by it in respect of such Global Security to the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof.
(ii) Except as otherwise specified with respect to the Notes, any semiannual interest on any Notes that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any applicable payment date (herein called "" which term shall include any accrued and unpaid interest that has accrued on such defaulted amount in accordance with paragraph 1 of the Notes), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder thereof on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest shall be paid by the Company as provided for in Section 3.07 of the Base Indenture.
Defaulted Interest,
(iii) Subject to the foregoing provisions of Section 2.02 of this Supplemental Indenture and Section 3.05 of the Base Indenture, Notes delivered under this Supplemental Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Notes shall carry the rights to semiannual interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue interest, which were carried by such other Notes.
(d) . Under certain circumstances, the Company may be obligated to pay Additional Interest to Holders, all as and to the extent set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. The terms thereof are incorporated by reference herein and such Additional Interest is deemed to be interest for purposes of this Indenture.
Additional Interest under the Registration Rights Agreement
(e) . There shall be no sinking fund provided for the Notes.
Sinking Fund
 
SECTION 2.03 .
Optional Redemption by the Company
(a) . The Company, at its option, may redeem the Notes pursuant to the redemption provisions of Section 2.03(f) hereof. If the Company elects to redeem Notes pursuant to Section 2.03(f) hereof, it shall notify in writing the Trustee, Paying Agent and each Holder of Notes to be redeemed as provided in Section 2.03(c).
Right to Redeem; Notice to Trustee, Paying Agent and Holders
(b) . If fewer than all of the outstanding Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select the Notes to be redeemed in Principal Amounts of $2,000 or integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. In the case that the Trustee shall select the Notes to be redeemed, the Trustee may effectuate such selection by lot, pro rata, or by any other method that the Trustee considers fair and appropriate. The Trustee will make such selection promptly following receipt of the notice of redemption from the Company provided pursuant to Section 2.03(c).
Fewer Than All Outstanding Notes to Be Redeemed
(c) . Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03(f), at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a Redemption Date, the Company shall mail or cause to be mailed a notice of redemption by first-class mail to the Trustee, the Paying Agent and each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at such Holder's address as it appears on the Security Register or otherwise in accordance with the procedures of the Depositary, except that redemption notices may be delivered more than 60 days prior to a Redemption Date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Notes or a satisfaction and discharge in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. Notices of redemption may not be conditional.
Notice of Redemption
The notice shall identify the Notes to be redeemed and shall state:
(i) the Redemption Date;
(ii) the redemption price;
(iii) the name and address of the Paying Agent;
(iv) that Notes called for redemption must be presented and surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
(v) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such redemption price, interest, if any, on the Notes called for redemption will cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date, and the only remaining right of the Holder will be to receive payment of the redemption price upon presentation and surrender to the Paying Agent of the Notes;
(vi) if any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the certificate number and portion of the Principal Amount of such Note that is to be redeemed and that, after the Redemption Date upon surrender of such Note, a new Note or Notes in Principal Amount equal to the unredeemed portion shall be issued in the name of the Holder upon cancellation of the original Note;
 
(vii) the paragraph of the Notes and/or Section of this Supplemental Indenture pursuant to which the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption are being redeemed; and
(viii) the CUSIP and ISIN number or numbers for the Notes called for redemption and that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of any such CUSIP or ISIN number that is listed in such notice or printed on the Notes.
At the Company's request, made at least five Business Days prior to the date upon which such notice is to be mailed, the Paying Agent shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's expense.
(d) . Once notice of redemption is mailed in accordance with Section 2.03(c) hereof, Notes called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the redemption price. Upon presentation and surrender to the Paying Agent, Notes called for redemption shall be paid at the redemption price as set forth in Section 2.03(f) hereof and in the Notes.
Effect of Notice of Redemption
(e) . On or before 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or the Paying Agent (or if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust) an amount of money sufficient to pay the aggregate redemption price of, and any accrued and unpaid interest (including any Additional Interest) with respect to, all the Notes to be redeemed on that date other than the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption which on or prior thereto have been delivered by the Company to the Security Registrar for cancellation. The Trustee or the Paying Agent shall, as promptly as practicable, return to the Company any money deposited with the Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Company in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the redemption price of, and any accrued and unpaid interest (including any Additional Interest) with respect to, the Notes to be redeemed.
Deposit of Redemption Price
The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of the redemption price and any accrued and unpaid interest (including any Additional Interest) and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. If the Company or an Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by the Paying Agent. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money delivered to the Trustee.
(f) . Except as set forth below in this Section 2.03(f), the Notes shall not be redeemable by the Company.
Optional Redemption
(i) At any time prior to July 15, 2013, the Company may at its option redeem all or a part of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the Principal Amount of the Notes to be redeemed plus the Applicable Premium as of, and accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to the Redemption Date.
 
(ii) On or after July 15, 2013, the Company may at its option redeem all or a part of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices (expressed as percentages of Principal Amount) set forth below plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, thereon to the applicable Redemption Date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on July 15 of the years indicated below:
 
(iii) If the terms, conduct or results of any of the Company's Tender Offers are not satisfactory to the Company in its sole judgment, then the Company may at its option, at any time during the 30-day period commencing on the Issue Date (the ""), redeem (A) all or (B) a part of the Notes ( that, if less than all of the Notes are being redeemed, the Company may only redeem up to $200,000,000 in aggregate Principal Amount), upon not less than three Business Days' notice, at a redemption price equal to the accreted value of the Notes to be redeemed as of the Redemption Date plus 1.0% of the Principal Amount of the Notes to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date. If, prior to the expiration of the Special Redemption Period, the Company determines in its sole judgment that the terms, conduct and results of such Tender Offers are satisfactory to the Company, then the Company shall make a public announcement to such effect and thereby waive its rights under this Section 2.03(f)(iii).
Special Redemption Period
provided
(g) With respect to the Notes only, Sections 11.02 through 11.06 of the Base Indenture shall not be applicable.
SECTION 2.04 . (a) If a Change of Control occurs, each Holder shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Notes pursuant to an offer (a "") on the terms set forth herein. In the Change of Control Offer, the Company will offer payment (a "") in cash equal to not less than 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, thereon, to the date of repurchase (the ""), which date will be no earlier than the date of the occurrence of such Change of Control.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
(b) No later than 30 days following any occurrence of a Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to the Trustee and each Holder or otherwise in accordance with the procedures of the Depositary describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the
 
Change of Control and offering to repurchase the Notes on the Change of Control Payment Date specified in such notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. Such notice shall also state:
(i) that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 2.04 and that all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn shall be accepted for payment;
(ii) the purchase price and the Change of Control Payment Date;
(iii) that any Note not properly tendered shall remain outstanding and continue to accrue interest;
(iv) that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, all Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer shall cease to accrue interest on and after the Change of Control Payment Date;
(v) that Holders electing to have any Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer shall be required to surrender the Notes, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Notes completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Paying Agent specified in the notice at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date;
(vi) that Holders shall be entitled to withdraw their tendered Notes and their election to require the Company to purchase such Notes, that the Paying Agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the Principal Amount of Notes tendered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing its tendered Notes and its election to have such Notes purchased; and
provided
(vii) that Holders whose Notes are being purchased only in part shall be issued new Notes equal in Principal Amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion must be equal to $2,000 in Principal Amount or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
(c) The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the Change of Control Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 2.04, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws or regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 2.04 by virtue of such compliance.
(d) On or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
(i) accept for payment all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
(ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered; and
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company.
(e) The Paying Agent shall promptly mail or wire transfer to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in Principal Amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; that each such new Note shall be in a Principal Amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
provided
(f) The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
(g) The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 2.04 applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
(h) If the Change of Control Payment Date is on or after a Regular Record Date and on or before the related Interest Payment Date, any accrued and unpaid interest (including any Additional Interest) shall be paid to the Person in whose name a Note is registered at the close of business on such Regular Record Date, and no additional interest shall be payable to Holders who tender Notes pursuant to the Change of Control Offer.
(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Supplemental Indenture, a Change of Control Offer may be made in advance of a Change of Control, conditional upon such Change of Control, if a definitive agreement has been executed by the time of making the Change of Control Offer.
(j) This Section 2.04 shall be applicable notwithstanding the applicability of any other provisions of the Indenture.
SECTION 3.01 The Notes shall initially be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities. The Company shall execute and the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver such Global Security or Securities in the manner provided for in Article 2 of the Base Indenture.
Form
.
 
SECTION 3.02 .
Regulation S Global Securities
(a) . Notes offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued initially in the form of the Legended Regulation S Global Security, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Notes represented thereby with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, and registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary for the accounts of designated agents holding on behalf of Euroclear or Clearstream, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. Following the termination of the Restricted Period, beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Security shall automatically be exchanged for beneficial interests in Unlegended Regulation S Global Security pursuant to the Applicable Procedures. The aggregate Principal Amount of the Regulation S Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, in connection with transfers of interest as hereinafter provided.
Regulation S Global Securities
(b) . The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" and the "General Terms and Conditions of Clearstream Banking" and "Customer Handbook" of Clearstream shall be applicable to transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Securities that are held by Participants through Euroclear or Clearstream and this Indenture shall not govern such transfers.
Euroclear and Clearstream Procedures Applicable
SECTION 3.03 .
Transfer and Exchange
(a) . Except as otherwise set forth in this Section 3.03, a Global Security may be transferred, in whole but not in part, only by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Securities shall be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Securities if (i) the Depositary notifies the Company (A) that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Global Securities and the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after receiving such notice or (B) that it has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after becoming aware of such condition; (ii) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of Definitive Securities; that in no event shall the Legended Regulation S Global Securities be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Securities prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period; or (iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes. Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (i), (ii) or (iii) above, Definitive Securities shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Securities also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 3.04 and 3.06 of the Base Indenture. Every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Security or any portion thereof, pursuant to the Indenture, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security. A Global Security may not be exchanged for another Security other than as provided in this Section 3.03(a); , , that beneficial interests in a Global Security may be transferred and exchanged for beneficial interests in a Global Security as provided in Section 3.03(b), (c) or (f) hereof.
Transfer and Exchange of Global Securities
provided
provided
however
 
(b) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Securities shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Securities also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Securities
(i) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Security may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Security in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Restricted Securities Legend; provided, however, that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Security may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than the Initial Purchasers). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Security may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Security Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 3.03(b)(i).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Security
(ii) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 3.03(b)(i) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Security Registrar either (A) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Security in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or (B) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Security in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Security Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Security shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (B)(1) above; provided that in no event shall Definitive Securities be issued upon the transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in the Legended Regulation S Global Security prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period. Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 3.03(f) hereof, the requirements of this Section 3.03(b)(ii) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Security Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Securities
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Securities
 
contained in the Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the Principal Amount at maturity of the relevant Global Securities pursuant to Section 3.03(i) hereof.
(iii) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Security if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 3.03(b)(ii) above and the Security Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Security
(A) if the transferee shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
Exhibit B
(B) if the transferee shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in a Legended Regulation S Global Security, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
Exhibit B
(iv) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security may be exchanged by any Holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 3.03(b)(ii) above and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Beneficial Interests in the Unrestricted Global Security
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (2) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(C) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(D) the Security Registrar receives the following:
(1) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or
Exhibit C
 
(2) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Security Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Restricted Securities Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate Principal Amount equal to the aggregate Principal Amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above.
Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Security cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security.
(c) .
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Securities
(i) . If any Holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Security or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security, then, upon receipt by the Security Registrar of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
(A) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
Exhibit C
(B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
(C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate substantially in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; or
Exhibit B
 
(D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof,
Exhibit B
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate Principal Amount of the applicable Global Security to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 3.03(i) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Restricted Definitive Security in the appropriate Principal Amount. Any Restricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security pursuant to this Section 3.03(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the Holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Restricted Definitive Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. Any Restricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(i) shall bear the Restricted Securities Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
(ii) . A beneficial interest in the Legended Regulation S Global Security may not be exchanged for a Definitive Security or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Security prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, except in the case of a transfer pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 903 or Rule 904.
Beneficial Interests in Legended Regulation S Global Security to Definitive Securities
(iii) . A Holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Security or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security only if:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (2) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(C) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(D) the Security Registrar receives the following:
(1) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for an
 
Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(2) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Security Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Restricted Securities Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(iv) . If any Holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Security or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.03(b)(ii) hereof, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate Principal Amount of the applicable Unrestricted Global Security to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 3.03(i) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions an Unrestricted Definitive Security in the appropriate Principal Amount. Any Unrestricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(iv) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the Holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Unrestricted Definitive Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. Any Unrestricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 3.03(c)(iv) shall not bear the Restricted Securities Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
(d) .
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Beneficial Interests
(i) . If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Security proposes to exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Security to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security, then, upon receipt by the Security Registrar of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Security proposes to exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
Exhibit C
 
(B) if such Restricted Definitive Security is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
(C) if such Restricted Definitive Security is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate substantially in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; or
Exhibit B
(D) if such Restricted Definitive Security is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof,
Exhibit B
the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Security, and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate Principal Amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Security, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Security, and in the case of clause (C) above, the Regulation S Global Security.
(ii) . A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Security may exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transfer such Restricted Definitive Security to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security only if:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (2) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(C) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(D) the Security Registrar receives the following:
(1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Security proposes to exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or
Exhibit C
 
(2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Security proposes to transfer such Security to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Security Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Restricted Securities Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 3.03(d)(ii), the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Security and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate Principal Amount of the Unrestricted Global Security.
(iii) . A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Security may exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transfer such Definitive Security to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Security and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate Principal Amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Securities.
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Security to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraph (ii)(B), (ii)(D) or (iii) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate Principal Amount equal to the Principal Amount of Definitive Securities so transferred.
(e) . Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Securities and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 3.03(e), the Security Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Securities. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Security Registrar the Definitive Securities duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Security Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 3.03(e).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Definitive Securities
(i) . Any Restricted Definitive Security may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security if the Security Registrar receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
(A) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
 
(B) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
Exhibit B
(C) if the transfer shall be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
Exhibit B
(ii) . Any Restricted Definitive Security may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Security or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security if:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (2) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
(B) any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(C) any such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(D) the Security Registrar receives the following:
(1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Security proposes to exchange such Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or
Exhibit C
(2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Security proposes to transfer such Security to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Security Registrar so requests, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Restricted Securities Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(iii) . A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Securities may transfer such Securities to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Security Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Securities pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
(f) . Upon the occurrence of an Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate (i) one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate Principal Amount equal to the Principal Amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (x) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Notes and (y) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, and accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer and (ii) Definitive Securities in an aggregate Principal Amount equal to the Principal Amount of the Restricted Definitive Securities accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer. Concurrently with the issuance of such Securities, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate Principal Amount of the applicable Restricted Global Securities to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Restricted Global Securities so accepted Unrestricted Global Securities in the appropriate Principal Amount.
Exchange Offer
(g) . The following legends shall appear on the face of all Global Securities and Definitive Securities issued under the Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of the Indenture.
Legends
(i) . Except as permitted below, each Global Security and each Definitive Security (and all Securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
Restricted Securities Legend
THIS NOTE (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS, EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE NEXT SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE HOLDER:
(1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) (A "QIB"), OR (B) IT HAS ACQUIRED THIS NOTE IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT;
 
(2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS NOTE OR ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN EXCEPT (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES, (B) TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QIB PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QIB IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (C) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 903 OR 904 OF REGULATION S OF THE SECURITIES ACT, (D) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL ACCEPTABLE TO THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE) OR (F) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION; AND
(3) AGREES THAT IT WILL DELIVER TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS NOTE OR AN INTEREST HEREIN IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND.
AS USED HEREIN, THE TERMS "OFFSHORE TRANSACTION" AND "UNITED STATES" HAVE THE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM BY RULE 902 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT. THE INDENTURE CONTAINS A PROVISION REQUIRING THE TRUSTEE TO REFUSE TO REGISTER ANY TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE IN VIOLATION OF THE FOREGOING.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Security or Definitive Security issued pursuant to subparagraph (b)(iv), (c)(iii), (c)(iv), (d)(ii), (d)(iii), (e)(ii), (e)(iii) or (f) to this Section 3.03 (and all Securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Restricted Securities Legend.
(ii) . Each Global Security and each Definitive Security (and all Securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) that have more than a de minimus amount of original issue discount for U.S. federal income tax purposes shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
OID Legend
THIS NOTE WAS ISSUED WITH "ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT" FOR PURPOSES OF SECTION 1271 ET SEQ. OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED. A HOLDER MAY OBTAIN THE ISSUE PRICE, AMOUNT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT, ISSUE DATE AND YIELD TO MATURITY FOR SUCH NOTES BY SUBMITTING A WRITTEN REQUEST FOR SUCH INFORMATION TO THE COMPANY AT THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS: THE
 
INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC., 1114 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10036, ATTENTION: INVESTOR RELATIONS.
(h) . To the extent required by the Depositary, the Legended Regulation S Global Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Regulation S Temporary Global Security Legend
THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS GLOBAL SECURITY, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR DEFINITIVE SECURITIES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN).
(i) . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Security have been exchanged for Definitive Securities or a particular Global Security has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Security shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Security is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security or for Definitive Securities, the Principal Amount of Notes represented by such Global Security shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security, such other Global Security shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Securities
(j) .
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
(i) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Global Securities and Definitive Securities upon the Company Order or at the Security Registrar's request.
(ii) No service charge shall be made to a Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Security or to a Holder of a Definitive Security for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than exchanges pursuant to Section 3.04, 9.06 or 11.07 of the Base Indenture or Section 2.04 of this Supplemental Indenture, in each case not involving any transfer).
(iii) The Security Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
(iv) All Global Securities and Definitive Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Securities or Definitive Securities shall be the valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under the Indenture, as the Global Securities or Definitive Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
(v) The Company shall not be required (A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of any selection of Notes for redemption under the Indenture and ending at the close of business on the day of selection, (B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part, (C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Note between a Regular Record Date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date or (D) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Note tendered and not withdrawn in connection with a Change of Control Offer.
(vi) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, Security Registrar, Paying Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest (including any Additional Interest) on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, Security Registrar, Paying Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
(vii) The Trustee shall authenticate Global Securities and Definitive Securities in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
(viii) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Security Registrar pursuant to this Section 3.03 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile or electronic transmission with the original to follow by first class mail.
(k) .
Applicable Procedures for Delegending
(i) After one year has elapsed following (A) the Issue Date or (B) if the Company has issued any additional Notes with the same terms and the same CUSIP number as the Notes pursuant to the Indenture within one year following the date of original issuance of the Notes, the date of original issuance of such additional Notes, if the Notes are freely tradeable pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act by Holders who are not Affiliates of the Company where no conditions of Rule 144 are then applicable (other than the holding period requirement in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of Rule 144 so long as such holding period requirement is satisfied), the Company may:
(1) instruct the Trustee in writing to remove the Restricted Securities Legend from the Notes by delivering to the Trustee a certificate in the form of hereto, and upon such instruction the Restricted Securities Legend shall be deemed removed from any Global Securities representing such Notes without further action on the part of Holders;
Exhibit E
(2) notify the Holders that the Restricted Securities Legend has been removed or deemed removed; and
 
(3) instruct the Depositary to change the CUSIP number for the Notes to the unrestricted CUSIP number for the Notes.
In no event will the failure of the Company to provide any notice set forth in this paragraph or of the Trustee to remove the Restricted Securities Legend constitute a failure by the Company to comply with any of its covenants or agreements set forth in this Indenture. Any Restricted Security (or security issued in exchange or substitution therefor) as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms may, upon surrender of such Restricted Security for exchange to the Security Registrar in accordance with the provisions of Article Three of this Supplemental Indenture, be exchanged for a new Security or Securities, of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, which shall not bear the Restricted Securities Legend. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing upon the occurrence of the Resale Restriction Termination Date and promptly after a registration statement with respect to the Notes, if any, has been declared effective under the Securities Act.
(ii) Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 3.03(k) to the contrary, in the event that Rule 144 as promulgated under the Securities Act (or any successor rule) is amended to change the one-year holding period thereunder (or the corresponding period under any successor rule), (i) each reference in this Section 3.03(k) to "one year" shall be deemed for all purposes hereof to be references to such changed period, and (ii) all corresponding references in the Notes (including the definition of Resale Restriction Termination Date) shall be deemed for all purposes hereof to be references to such changed period, that such changes shall not become effective if they are otherwise prohibited by, or would otherwise cause a violation of, the then-applicable federal securities laws. This Section 3.03(k)(ii) shall apply to successive amendments to Rule 144 (or any successor rule) changing the holding period thereunder.
provided
SECTION 4.01 . The following events shall each constitute an additional "Event of Default" under the Base Indenture whenever used with respect to the Notes (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
Additional Events of Default
(i) failure by the Company to repurchase Notes or make a Change of Control Offer in a timely manner in accordance with Section 2.04 hereof.
SECTION 4.02 . The Base Indenture is hereby amended, with respect to the Notes only, by replacing the reference to "$20,000,000" with "$50,000,000" in paragraph (5) of Section 5.01 of the Base Indenture.
Amendment to Cross-Acceleration Provision
 
SECTION 5.01 . (a) Sections 7.04(1) and (2) of the Base Indenture shall, with respect to the Notes only, be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Reports by the Company
"(1) For so long as any of the Notes are outstanding:
(a) file with the Trustee, within 45 days after the Company is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the annual and quarterly reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) that the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of said Sections, then it shall file with the Trustee and the Commission (unless the Commission will not accept such a filing), in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations;
(b) not take any action for the purpose of causing the Commission not to accept any such filings described in clause (a) above; that if, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Commission will not accept the Company's filings for any reason, the Company shall post the information, documents and reports described in clause (a) above on its website within the time periods that would apply if the Company were required to file such information, documents and reports with the Commission pursuant to clause (a) above; and
provided
(c) furnish, upon the request of a Holder and a prospective purchaser designated by such Holder, the information required to be delivered under Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act, if at the time of such request the Company is neither a reporting company under Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, nor exempt from reporting pursuant to Rule 12g3-2 thereunder,
that, notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to prepare or file any financial statements or other information or disclosure required pursuant to Rule 3-10 or 3-16 of Regulation S-X (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act."
provided
(b) With respect to the Notes only, Section 7.04(3) of the Base Indenture shall not be applicable.
 
SECTION 6.01 . The definition of "Permitted Liens" in the Base Indenture shall, with respect to the Notes only, be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Limitations on Liens
""" means (a) liens (including liens arising from sale and lease-back transactions) on property or assets acquired or held by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary incurred to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price thereof or to secure any Indebtedness incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 180 days after the acquisition for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof, or liens (including liens arising from sale and lease-back transactions) on property or assets existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, other than liens created in contemplation of such acquisition that were not incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof, , , that the lien does not extend to or cover any property or assets of any character other than the property or assets being acquired; (b) liens on property or assets of a Person, other than the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, existing at the time of acquisition of such property and assets by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, , that the liens were not created in contemplation of such acquisition and do not extend to any property or assets of any character other than the property or assets being acquired; (c) liens affecting property or assets of a Person, other than the Company or any Restricted Subsidiaries, existing at the time the Person merges into or consolidates with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or becomes a Restricted Subsidiary or at the time of sale, lease or other disposition of the property or assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, , , that the liens were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any property or assets other than those of the Person so merged into or consolidated with, or acquired by, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary; (d) liens securing Indebtedness owing by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the Company or to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; (e) liens existing on the Issue Date; (f) liens in favor of the United States of America or any State, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any State, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments; (g) liens on any property to secure all or part of the cost of alteration, repair or improvement thereon or Indebtedness incurred to provide funds for such purpose in a principal amount not exceeding the cost of such improvements or construction; (h) purchase money liens on personal property; (i) liens created in connection with capitalized lease obligations, but only to the extent that such liens encumber property financed by such capital lease obligation and the principal component of such capitalized lease obligation is not increased; (j) liens on property arising in connection with a securities repurchase transaction; (k) liens (including judgment liens) arising in connection with legal proceedings, taxes, fees, assessments or other governmental charges, so long as such proceedings, taxes, fees, assessments or other
Permitted Liens
provided
however
provided
provided
however
 
governmental charges are being contested in good faith and, in the case of judgment liens, execution thereon is stayed and for which any reserves required in accordance with GAAP have been established; (l) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', landlords', materialmen's, repairmen's or other similar liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 90 days or are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued, , , that (i) any proceedings commenced for the enforcement of such liens shall have been stayed or suspended within 30 days of the commencement thereof and (ii) provision for the payment of such liens has been made on the books of the Company to the extent required by GAAP; (m) easements, rights-of-way, zoning restrictions and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; (n) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers' compensation laws or other similar legislation (other than in respect of employee benefit plans subject to the Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974, as amended) or to secure public or statutory obligations; (o) liens securing the performance of, or payment in respect of, bids, tenders, government contracts (other than for the repayment of borrowed money), surety and appeal bonds and other obligations of a similar nature incurred in the ordinary course of business; (p) any interest or title of a lessor or sublessor and any restriction or encumbrance to which the interest or title of such lessor or sublessor may be subject that is incurred in the ordinary course of business; (q) any contractual right of set-off or any contractual right to charge or contractual security interest in or lien on the accounts of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary to effect the payment of amounts to a depositary institution whether or not due and payable in respect of any Indebtedness or financing arrangement and any other lien arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights; (r) liens arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing Indebtedness in an aggregate amount of not more than $15,000,000 that matures not more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred; (s) any liens on the assets of any Subsidiaries of the Company organized outside of the United States in favor of lenders or an affiliated guarantor under or in connection with short-term working capital lines of credit or overdraft facilities, in each case entered into in the ordinary course of business; (t) any liens on any asset of any Person organized outside of the United States arising at any time pursuant to an arrangement (factoring or otherwise) secured by accounts receivable that is existing at the time such Person becomes or became a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company or is merged into or consolidated with the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, that such lien or arrangement was not created in contemplation of such event, and only to the extent, in the case of any such arrangement, that such arrangement does not provide for liens which, together with all other liens permitted under this clause (t), would encumber assets representing more than 5.0% of the consolidated accounts receivable of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as reflected in the consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the Company's fiscal quarter most recently ended prior to such event; (u) any lien arising out of an interest bearing cash deposit account to be established and maintained by the lender or lenders (or their agent) under any credit
provided
however
provided
 
facility with a bank or a syndicate of banks; and (v) any extension, renewal, refinancing or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (a) to (u), inclusive, , , that any lien permitted by any of the foregoing clauses (a) through (u) shall not extend to or cover any property of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, other than the property specified in such clauses and improvements thereto."
provided
however
SECTION 7.01 . (a) Supplemental indentures modifying the Indenture and the terms of the Notes may be entered into as set forth in Article 9 of the Base Indenture; that, in addition to the provisions of Section 9.02 of the Base Indenture, the Company and the Trustee also may not, without the consent of each Holder of Notes affected thereby, enter into a supplemental indenture modifying or amending the Indenture or the Notes to:
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders
provided
(i) alter the provisions, waive any payment, or otherwise change the Company's obligation in a manner adverse to the Holder with respect to the redemption of the Notes other than provisions relating to the covenant described in Section 2.04 of this Supplemental Indenture (except to the extent provided in clause (ii) below); or
(ii) amend, change or modify the Company's obligation to make and consummate a Change of Control Offer in the event of a Change of Control in accordance with Section 2.04 of this Supplemental Indenture after such Change of Control has occurred, including amending, changing or modifying any definition relating thereto after the Change of Control has occurred.
(b) With respect to the Notes only, Section 9.02(3) of the Base Indenture shall not be applicable.
SECTION 8.01 The Notes shall be direct senior obligations of the Company and shall rank (a) senior in right of payment to all existing and future Indebtedness that is, by its terms, expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Notes and (b) in right of payment with all other unsecured senior Indebtedness of the Company. The Notes are not guaranteed.
Senior in Right of Payment
.
pari passu
SECTION 9.01 . This Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
Integral Part
 
SECTION 9.02 . The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Base Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided. The provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall, subject to the terms hereof, supersede the provisions of the Base Indenture to the extent the Base Indenture is inconsistent herewith.
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
SECTION 9.03 . This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
SECTION 9.04 THE INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW RULES OF SAID STATE.
GOVERNING LAW
.
SECTION 9.05 . If and to the extent that any provision of the Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision required under the terms of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trust Indenture Act provision shall control.
Conflict of Any Provision of Indenture with Trust Indenture Act
SECTION 9.06 The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
.
SECTION 9.07 . In case any provision in the Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability of Provisions
SECTION 9.08 . All covenants and agreements in the Indenture by the parties hereto shall bind their respective successors and assigns and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns
SECTION 9.09 . Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Security Registrar, any Paying Agent, and their successors hereunder, and the Holders of the Notes, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim hereunder or under the Indenture.
Benefit of Indenture
SECTION 9.10 . The Trustee accepts the amendments to the Base Indenture effected by this Supplemental Indenture and agrees to execute the trusts created by the Base Indenture as hereby amended, but only upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the recitals contained herein, which shall be taken as the statements of the Company and except as provided in the Indenture the Trustee shall not be responsible or accountable in any way whatsoever for or with respect to the validity or execution or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture and the Trustee makes no representation with respect thereto. All rights, protections, privileges, indemnities and benefits granted or afforded to the Trustee under the Indenture shall be deemed incorporated herein by this reference and shall be deemed applicable to all actions taken, suffered or omitted by the Trustee under this Supplemental Indenture.
Acceptance by Trustee
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, and the Company's corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
EXHIBIT A
[FOR GLOBAL SECURITY] [THIS SECURITY IS IN GLOBAL FORM WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN CERTIFICATED FORM IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IN EXCHANGE FOR THIS SECURITY OR ANY PORTION HEREOF IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
[FOR RESTRICTED SECURITY] [THIS NOTE (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS, EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE NEXT SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE HOLDER:
(1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) (A "QIB"), OR (B) IT HAS ACQUIRED THIS NOTE IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT;
(2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS NOTE OR ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN EXCEPT (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES, (B) TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QIB PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN
 
ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QIB IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (C) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 903 OR 904 OF REGULATION S OF THE SECURITIES ACT, (D) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL ACCEPTABLE TO THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE) OR (F) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION; AND
(3) AGREES THAT IT WILL DELIVER TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS NOTE OR AN INTEREST HEREIN IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND.
AS USED HEREIN, THE TERMS "OFFSHORE TRANSACTION" AND "UNITED STATES" HAVE THE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM BY RULE 902 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT. THE INDENTURE CONTAINS A PROVISION REQUIRING THE TRUSTEE TO REFUSE TO REGISTER ANY TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE IN VIOLATION OF THE FOREGOING.]
THIS NOTE WAS ISSUED WITH "ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT" FOR PURPOSES OF SECTION 1271 ET SEQ. OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED. A HOLDER MAY OBTAIN THE ISSUE PRICE, AMOUNT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT, ISSUE DATE AND YIELD TO MATURITY FOR SUCH NOTES BY SUBMITTING A WRITTEN REQUEST FOR SUCH INFORMATION TO THE COMPANY AT THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS: THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC., 1114 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10036, ATTENTION: INVESTOR RELATIONS.
[FOR LEGENDED REGULATION S GLOBAL SECURITY] [THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS GLOBAL SECURITY, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR DEFINITIVE SECURITIES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN).]
 
No. A-1
 
The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, on July 15, 2017 the principal sum of             Dollars ($             ) and to pay interest thereon from June 15, 2009 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on January 15, 2010, at the rate of 10.0% per annum until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest next preceding such Interest Payment Date.
Company
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest (including any Additional Interest) on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the State of New York, City of New York, Borough of Manhattan; that at the option of the Company, payment of interest (including any Additional Interest) may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided, however,
So long as all of the Notes of this series are represented by Notes in global form, the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest (including any Additional Interest) on this global Note shall be paid in same day funds to the Depositary, or to such name or entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depositary. If at any time the Notes of this series are no longer represented by global Notes and are issued in definitive certificated form, then the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest (including any Additional Interest) on each certificated Note at Maturity shall be paid in same day funds to the Holder upon surrender of such certificated Note at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or at such other place or places as may be designated in or pursuant to the Indenture; that such certificated Note is surrendered to the Trustee, or at such other place or places as may be designated in or pursuant to the Indenture, in time for the Paying Agent to make such payments in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Payments of interest (including any Additional Interest) with respect to such certificated Notes other than at Maturity may, at the option of the Company, be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as it appears on the Security Register on the relevant Regular or Special Record Date or by wire transfer in same day funds to such account as may have been appropriately designated to the Paying Agent by such Person in writing not later than such relevant Regular or Special Record Date.
provided
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
 
 
THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), promises to pay interest on the outstanding Principal Amount of this Note at the rate of 10.0% per annum from June 15, 2009 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, as the case may be, until Maturity. The Company shall pay interest semiannually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing January 15, 2010, and at Maturity to the Person in whose name the Notes are registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date of January 1 and July 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment. Interest on the Notes will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
Company
If any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Change of Control Payment Date or Maturity date is not a Business Day, the payment of principal and interest (including any Additional Interest), as applicable, will be made on the next succeeding Business Day, except that if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date will be the immediately preceding Business Day. No interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Change of Control Payment Date or the Maturity date, as the case may be, to the date payment is made.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall make payments in respect of the Notes to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes as of the close of business on the Business Day preceding the Redemption Date or Maturity date, as the case may be, or at the close of business on a Change of Control Payment Date. Holders must surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Notes. The Company shall pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such money.
 
Initially, U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association under the laws of the United States of America and having a corporate trust office in Atlanta, Georgia (the ""), shall act as Paying Agent and Security Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent and Security Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee except that the Company will maintain at least one Paying Agent in the State of New York, City of New York, Borough of Manhattan. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Security Registrar or co-registrar.
Trustee
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under a Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of November 12, 2004 (the ""), as supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of June 15, 2009 (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), between the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. Reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and the terms upon which the Notes are to be authenticated and delivered. The terms, conditions and provisions of the Notes are those stated in the Indenture, those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and those set forth in the Notes.
Securities
Base Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company initially issued in an aggregate Principal Amount of $600,000,000.
 
No sinking fund is provided for the Notes. Except as set forth below, the Notes shall not be redeemable by the Company.
(a) At any time prior to July 15, 2013, the Company may at its option redeem all or a part of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the Principal Amount of the Notes to be redeemed plus the Applicable Premium as of, and accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to the Redemption Date, subject to the rights of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date.
(b) On or after July 15, 2013, the Company may at its option redeem all or a part of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices (expressed as percentages of Principal Amount) set forth below plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, thereon to the applicable Redemption Date, subject to the rights of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on July 15 of the years indicated below:
 
(c) If the terms, conduct or results of any of the Company's Tender Offers are not satisfactory to the Company in its sole judgment, then the Company may at its option, at any time during the Special Redemption Period, redeem (A) all or (B) a part of the Notes ( that, if less than all of the Notes are being redeemed, the Company may
provided
 
only redeem up to $200,000,000 in aggregate Principal Amount), upon not less than three Business Days' notice, at a redemption price equal to the accreted value of the Notes to be redeemed as of the Redemption Date plus 1.0% of the Principal Amount of the Notes to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date. If, prior to the expiration of the Special Redemption Period, the Company determines in its sole judgment that the terms, conduct and results of such Tender Offers are satisfactory to the Company, then the Company shall make a public announcement to such effect and thereby waive its rights under this paragraph 5(c).
 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 5 of this Note, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a Redemption Date, the Company shall mail or cause to be mailed a notice of redemption by first-class mail to the Trustee, the Paying Agent and each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at such Holder's address as it appears on the Note register or otherwise in accordance with the procedures of the Depositary, except that redemption notices may be delivered more than 60 days prior to a Redemption Date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Notes or a satisfaction and discharge in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. If money sufficient to pay the redemption price of all Notes (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, on and after the Redemption Date, interest (including any Additional Interest), if any, shall cease to accrue on such Notes or portions thereof. Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 Principal Amount may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000 Principal Amount in excess thereof.
 
If a Change of Control occurs, each Holder shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes pursuant to a Change of Control Offer on the terms set forth in the Indenture. In the Change of Control Offer, the Company will offer payment in cash equal to not less than 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, thereon, to the date of repurchase, which date will be no earlier than the date of such Change of Control. The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in Section 2.04 of the Supplemental Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
 
The Notes shall be direct senior obligations of the Company and shall rank senior in right of payment to all existing and future Indebtedness that is, by its terms, expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Notes and in right of payment with all other unsecured senior Indebtedness of the Company. The Notes are not guaranteed.
pari passu
 
Except as otherwise specified with respect to the Notes, any Defaulted Interest on any Note shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder thereof on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company as provided for in Section 3.07 of the Base Indenture and Section 2.02 of the Supplemental Indenture.
 
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $2,000 or integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. A Holder may transfer Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Security Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Security Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Notes selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Note to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Note not to be redeemed) or any Notes in respect of which a Change of Control Offer has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Note to be purchased in part, the portion of the Note not to be purchased) for a period of 15 days before any selection of Notes to be redeemed. The Notes are subject to certain transfer restrictions set forth in Article 3 of the Supplemental Indenture.
 
The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes.
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or property held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Notes that remains unclaimed for one year; that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such return, shall at the expense of the Company cause to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or mail to each such Holder notice that such money or property remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication or mailing, any unclaimed money or property then remaining shall be returned to the Company. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or property must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
provided, however,
 
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Notes may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes at the time outstanding and (ii) certain Defaults or noncompliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes at the time outstanding. The Indenture or the Notes may be amended without the consent of any Holders under circumstances set forth in Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture.
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, may declare the outstanding Principal Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, of all the Notes to be due and payable immediately. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which shall result in the Notes being declared due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
Events of Default in respect of the Notes are set forth in Section 5.01 of the Base Indenture, as amended and supplemented by Article 4 of the Supplemental Indenture. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it receives reasonable indemnity or security. Subject to certain limitations, conditions and exceptions, Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power, including the annulment of a declaration of acceleration. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing Default (except a Default in payment of amounts specified in clauses (1) and (2) of Section 5.01 of the Base Indenture) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interests.
 
In the event of a consolidation, merger, or sale of assets to convey, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the Company's property or assets as described in Section 8.01 of the Base Indenture, the successor corporation to the Company shall succeed to and be substituted for the Company, and may exercise the Company's rights and powers under this Indenture, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the Company shall be relieved of all obligations and convents under the Indenture and the Notes with respect to its obligations under this Indenture.
 
The Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar under the Indenture, each in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent or Security Registrar.
 
A director, officer or employee, as such, of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or any stockholder as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
 
This Note shall not be valid until an authorized officer of the Trustee or Authenticating Agent manually signs the Trustee's certificate of authentication on the other side of this Note.
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TENANT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
The Indenture and this Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to the conflicts of law rules of said state.
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Security to:
 
and irrevocably appoint                                          as agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
 
 
The undersigned registered Holder of this Note hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (the "") as to the occurrence of a Change of Control with respect to the Company and requests and instructs the Company to repurchase this Note, or the portion hereof (which is $2,000 Principal Amount or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) designated below, in accordance with paragraph 7 of this Note and the terms of the Supplemental Indenture referred to in this Note and directs that the check in payment for this Note or the portion thereof and any Notes representing any unrepurchased principal amount hereof, be issued and delivered to the registered Holder hereof.
Company
 
 
 
Principal Amount to be purchased (if
less than all):$                    ,000.
 
EXHIBIT B
The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.
1114 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York 10036
Attention: Investor Relations
U.S. Bank National Association
1349 W. Peachtree Street, Suite 1050
Atlanta, Georgia 30309
Attention: Corporate Trust Division
Re: 10.0% Senior Notes due 2017
Reference is hereby made to the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of November 12, 2004 (the ""), between The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and U.S. Bank National Association (as a successor to Suntrust Bank), as trustee (the ""), as amended and supplemented by the seventh supplemental indenture dated as of June 15, 2009 (the "", and together with the Base Indenture, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
            (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount at maturity of $            in such Note[s] or interests (the ""), to             (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
Transferor
Transfer
Transferee
    1. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Security is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Security for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Restricted Securities Legend printed on the 144A Global Security and/or the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security or a Definitive Security Pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
 
    2. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Restricted Securities Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Security and/or the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Regulation S Global Security or a Definitive Security pursuant to Regulation S
    3. . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Securities and Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a Restricted Definitive Security pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S
    (a) such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or
    (b) such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Security or Restricted Definitive Securities and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of Exhibit D to the Indenture and (2) if such transfer is in respect of an aggregate principal amount of Notes less than $100,000, an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Restricted Securities Legend printed on the Definitive Securities and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
4. .
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or of an Unrestricted Definitive Security
 
    (a) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Rule 144. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Restricted Securities Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Restricted Securities Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
    (b) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and, in the case of a transfer from a Restricted Global Security or a Restricted Definitive Security, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (a) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (b) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (c) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (d) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person, and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Restricted Securities Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Restricted Securities Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
    (c) Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Restricted Securities Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Restricted Securities Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities or Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
EXHIBIT C
The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.
1114 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York 10036
Attention: Investor Relations
U.S. Bank National Association
1349 W. Peachtree Street, Suite 1050
Atlanta, Georgia 30309
Attention: Corporate Trust Division
Re: 10.0% Senior Notes due 2017
Reference is hereby made to the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of November 12, 2004 (the ""), between The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and U.S. Bank National Association (as a successor to Suntrust Bank), as trustee (the ""), as amended and supplemented by the seventh supplemental indenture dated as of June 15, 2009 (the "", and together with the Base Indenture, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
                     (the "") owns and proposes to exchange the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount at maturity of $             in such Note[s] or interests (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
Owner
Exchange
1. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Unrestricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Security.
    a) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security in an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Restricted Securities Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security
Securities Act
 
    (b) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Restricted Securities Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Unrestricted Definitive Security
    (c) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Restricted Securities Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security
    (d) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Restricted Securities Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to Unrestricted Definitive Security
2. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities for Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities.
    (a) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a Restricted Definitive Security with an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Security issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Restricted Securities Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Restricted Definitive Security
 
    (b) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] :
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security
144A Global Security or
Regulation S Global Security,
with an equal principal amount at maturity, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Restricted Securities Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
EXHIBIT D
The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.
1114 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York 10036
Attention: Investor Relations
U.S. Bank National Association
1349 W. Peachtree Street, Suite 1050
Atlanta, Georgia 30309
Attention: Corporate Trust Division
Re: 10.0% Senior Notes due 2017
Reference is hereby made to the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of November 12, 2004 (the ""), between The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and U.S. Bank National Association (as a successor to Suntrust Bank), as trustee (the ""), as amended and supplemented by the seventh supplemental indenture dated as of June 15, 2009 (the "", and together with the Base Indenture, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
In connection with our proposed purchase of $             aggregate principal amount at maturity of:
(a)        beneficial interest in a Global Security, or
(b)        a Definitive Security,
we confirm that:
1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
 
2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we will do so only:
(i)(a) to a person whom we reasonably believe is a qualified institutional buyer (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, (b) in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, (c) outside the United States to a non-U.S. person in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 903 or 904 under the Securities Act, (d) to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of the Securities Act) (an "Institutional Accredited Investor") that, prior to such transfer, furnishes the trustee a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and, if such transfer is in respect of an aggregate principal amount of Notes less than $100,000, an Opinion of Counsel acceptable to the issuer that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, or (e) in accordance with another exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act (and based upon an Opinion of Counsel if the Company so requests),
(ii) to the Company, or
(iii) pursuant to an effective registration statement and, in each case, in accordance with any applicable securities laws of any state of the United States or any other applicable jurisdiction;
and we further agree to provide to any person purchasing the Definitive Security or beneficial interest in a Global Security from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein.
3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect.
4. We are an Institutional Accredited Investor and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
5. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an Institutional Accredited Investor) as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT E
U.S. Bank National Association
1349 W. Peachtree Street, Suite 1050
Atlanta, Georgia 30309
Attention: Corporate Trust Division
Re: 10.0% Senior Notes due 2017
Reference is hereby made to the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of November 12, 2004 (the ""), between The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and U.S. Bank National Association (as a successor to Suntrust Bank), as trustee (the ""), as amended and supplemented by the seventh supplemental indenture dated as of June 15, 2009 (the "", and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Whereas the 10.0% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "") have become freely tradable without restrictions by non-affiliates of the Company pursuant to Rule 144(b)(1) under the Securities Act, in accordance with Section 3.03(k) of the Supplemental Indenture, pursuant to which the Notes were issued, the Company hereby instructs you that:
Notes
(i) the Restricted Securities Legend described in Section 3.03(g)(i) of the Supplemental Indenture and set forth on the Securities shall be deemed removed from the Securities, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Notes and as provided in the Indenture, without further action on the part of Holders; and
(ii) the restricted CUSIP number and restricted ISIN number for the Notes shall be deemed removed from the Notes and replaced with the unrestricted CUSIP number ([]) and unrestricted ISIN number ([]), respectively, set forth therein, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Notes and as provided in the Indenture, without further action on the part of Holders.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
THIS REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (this "") is made and entered into as of June 15, 2009, among THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED, CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC., J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. and UBS SECURITIES LLC, as representatives (the ""), of the several initial purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement (as defined below) (together with the Representatives, the "").
Agreement
Company
Representatives
Initial Purchasers
This Agreement is made pursuant to the purchase agreement dated June 10, 2009 (the ""), among the Company and the Initial Purchasers, pursuant to which the Company proposes to issue and sell to the Initial Purchasers $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 10.0% Senior Notes due 2017 (the ""). In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
Securities
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. .
Definitions
As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
1933 Act
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
1934 Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(d).
Additional Interest
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Company's successors.
Company
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(ii).
Exchange Dates
"" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company of Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b).
Exchange Offer Consummation Deadline
"" shall mean a registration under the 1933 Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration
"" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form) and all
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
 
amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
"" shall mean securities issued by the Company under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Securities (except that the Exchange Securities will not contain restrictions on transfer) and to be offered to Holders of Securities in exchange for Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Exchange Securities
"" means with respect to the Shelf Registration Statement required to be filed pursuant to Section 2(b)(i), (iii) or (iv), the later of (x) the Filing Deadline or (y) the 45th day after such determination, date or notice of an opinion of counsel, as applicable.
Filing Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a).
Filing Deadline
"" means each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act) prepared by or on behalf of the Company or used or referred to by the Company in connection with the sale of the Securities or the Exchange Securities.
Free Writing Prospectus
"" shall mean the registered holder of Registrable Securities, and each of its successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become registered owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture; that for purposes of Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement, the term "Holder" shall include Participating Broker-Dealers (as defined in Section 4(a)).
Holder
provided
"" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities dated as of November 12, 2004 between the Company and the Trustee, as supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 15, 2009 between the Company and the Trustee, and as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial Purchasers
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).
Issuer Information
"" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Registrable Securities; that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Securities held by the Company or any of its affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act) (other than the Holders of Registrable Securities if such Holders are deemed to be such affiliates solely by reason of their holding of such Registrable Securities) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount.
Majority Holders
provided
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Participating Broker-Dealer
 
"" shall mean an individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" shall mean the prospectus included in a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, and in each case including all material incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Purchase Agreement
"" shall mean the Securities; , , that the Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities (i) when an Exchange Offer Registration Statement with respect to validly tendered Securities shall have been declared effective under the 1933 Act and such Securities shall have been exchanged pursuant to the Exchange Offer for Exchange Securities, (ii) when a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to such Securities shall have been declared effective under the 1933 Act and such Securities shall have been disposed of pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, (iii) when such Securities have become freely transferable by Persons other than "affiliates" (as defined in Rule 144 under the 1933 Act) of the Company pursuant to Rule 144 of the 1933 Act under circumstances in which any legend borne by the Securities relating to restrictions on transferability thereof is removed, the Securities do not bear a restricted CUSIP number and such Securities are eligible to be sold pursuant to Rule 144, or any successor provision, of the 1933 Act, or (iv) when such Securities shall have ceased to be outstanding.
Registrable Securities
provided
however
"" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any Underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements and other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws, (vi) the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel, (vii) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Holders (which counsel shall be selected by the Majority Holders and which counsel may also be counsel for the Initial Purchasers) and (viii) the fees and disbursements of the independent public accountants of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or "comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance and compliance,
Registration Expenses
 
but excluding fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters (other than fees and expenses set forth in clause (ii) above) or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
"" shall mean any registration statement of the Company that covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and all amendments and supplements to any such Registration Statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Representatives
"" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Securities
"" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration Effectiveness Period
"" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2(b) of this Agreement which covers all of the Registrable Securities (but no other securities unless approved by the Holders whose Registrable Securities are covered by such Shelf Registration Statement) on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3 hereof.
Suspension Period
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(l) hereof.
TIA
"" shall mean U.S. Bank National Association, as successor in interest to SunTrust Bank, as trustee, with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
Trustee
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3 hereof.
Underwriter
"" shall mean a registration in which Registrable Securities are sold to an Underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten Offering
 
2. .
Registration Under the 1933 Act
(a) To the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC, the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be filed an Exchange Offer Registration Statement covering the offer by the Company to the Holders to exchange all of the Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities not later than December 12, 2009 (the ""), to cause such Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective not later than 120 days after the Filing Deadline and to have such Exchange Offer Registration Statement remain effective until the closing of the Exchange Offer. The Company shall commence the Exchange Offer as soon as reasonably practicable after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has been declared effective by the SEC and use commercially reasonable efforts to have the Exchange Offer consummated within 150 days after the Filing Deadline.
Filing Deadline
The Company shall commence the Exchange Offer by mailing the related Prospectus and accompanying documents to each Holder stating, in addition to such other disclosures as are required by applicable law:
(i) that the Exchange Offer is being made pursuant to this Registration Rights Agreement and that all Registrable Securities validly tendered will be accepted for exchange;
(ii) the dates of acceptance for exchange (which shall be a period of at least 20 business days and not more than 40 business days, or longer if required by applicable law, from the date such notice is mailed) (the "");
Exchange Dates
(iii) that any Registrable Security not tendered will remain outstanding and continue to accrue interest, but will not retain any rights under this Registration Rights Agreement;
(iv) that Holders electing to have a Registrable Security exchanged pursuant to the Exchange Offer will be required to surrender such Registrable Security, together with the enclosed letters of transmittal, to the institution and at the address (located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York) specified in the notice, or effect such exchange otherwise in compliance with the applicable procedures of the depositary for such Registrable Security, in each case prior to the close of business on the last Exchange Date; and
(v) that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election, not later than the close of business, New York City time, on the last Exchange Date, by sending to the institution and at the address (located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York) specified in the notice a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Registrable Securities delivered for exchange and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have such Securities exchanged or effecting such withdrawal in compliance with the applicable procedures of the depositary for the Registrable Securities.
As soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date, the Company shall:
(i) accept for exchange Registrable Securities or portions thereof tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer; and
 
(ii) deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Securities or portions thereof so accepted for exchange by the Company and issue, and cause the Trustee to promptly authenticate and deliver to each Holder, an Exchange Security equal in principal amount to the principal amount of the Registrable Securities surrendered by such Holder.
Interest on each Exchange Security will accrue from the last interest payment date on which interest was paid on the Securities surrendered in exchange therefor or, if no interest has been paid on the Securities, from the date of original issuance of the Securities on the date hereof.
The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to complete the Exchange Offer as provided above and shall comply with the applicable requirements of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and other applicable laws and regulations in connection with the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than that the Exchange Offer does not violate applicable law or any applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC. The Company shall inform the Initial Purchasers of the names and addresses of the Holders to whom the Exchange Offer is made, and the Initial Purchasers shall have the right, subject to applicable law, to contact such Holders and otherwise facilitate the tender of Registrable Securities in the Exchange Offer.
(b) In the event that (i) the Company determines upon the advice of the Company's outside counsel that the Exchange Offer Registration provided for in Section 2(a) above is not available or may not be consummated as soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date because it would violate applicable law or the applicable interpretations of the staff of the SEC, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not for any other reason consummated within 150 days after the Filing Deadline (the "") or (iii) any Holder notifies the Company that it is not eligible to participate in the Exchange Offer (other than by virtue of being an "affiliate" of the Company (as defined in Rule 144 under the 1933 Act)), the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be filed as promptly as practicable after such determination, date or notice of such opinion of counsel is given to the Company (but no later than the Filing Date), as the case may be, a Shelf Registration Statement providing for the sale by the Holders of all of the Registrable Securities and to use commercially reasonable efforts to have such Shelf Registration Statement declared effective by the SEC within 120 days after the Filing Date. In the event the Company is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement solely as a result of the matters referred to in clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to file and have declared effective by the SEC both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) with respect to all Registrable Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Registrable Securities held by the Holders after completion of the Exchange Offer. Subject to the Company's right to suspend the use of the Shelf Registration Statement during the Suspension Period (as defined in Section 3), the Company agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the earlier of (i) the first anniversary date of
Exchange Offer Consummation Deadline
 
the Shelf Registration Statement and (ii) such time as all of the Securities cease to be outstanding or have either been (A) sold or otherwise transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement or (B) sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1933 Act or have become freely transferable by Persons other than "affiliates" (as defined in Rule 144 under the 1933 Act) of the Company pursuant to Rule 144 of the 1933 Act, in each case, under circumstances in which any legend borne by the Securities relating to restrictions on transferability thereof is removed, the Securities do not bear a restricted CUSIP number and such Securities are eligible to be sold pursuant to Rule 144, or any successor provision, of the 1933 Act (the "). The Company further agrees to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the 1933 Act or by any other rules and regulations thereunder for shelf registration or if reasonably requested by a Holder with respect to information relating to such Holder, and to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective and such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus to become usable as soon as thereafter practicable. The Company agrees to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC.
Shelf Registration Effectiveness Period
(c) The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Section 2(a) or Section 2(b). Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
(d) An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof or a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC or is automatically effective upon filing with the SEC as provided by Rule 462 under the 1933 Act; , , that, if, after it has been declared effective or becomes automatically effective, the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, such Registration Statement will be deemed not to have become effective during the period of such interference until the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement may legally resume. As provided for in the Indenture, in the event the Exchange Offer is not consummated and the Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective as set forth below, then the interest rate on the Securities will be increased (the "") as follows:
provided
however
Additional Interest
(i) if (A) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has not been filed with the SEC on or prior to the Filing Deadline or (B) the Company is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement and such Shelf Registration Statement is not filed on or prior to the Filing Date applicable thereto then, commencing on the day after the Filing Deadline in the case of clause (A) or the Filing Date in the case of clause (B), Additional Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the Registrable Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days immediately following thereafter, and such Additional Interest rate shall increase by an additional 0.25% per annum after the first 90 days; or
 
(ii) if (A) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective by the SEC within 120 days after the Filing Deadline or (B) the Company is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement and such Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective by the SEC within 120 days following the Filing Date applicable thereto then, commencing on the 121st day in the case of clause (A) or such 121st day following the Filing Date in the case of clause (B), Additional Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the Registrable Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days immediately following thereafter, and such Additional Interest rate shall increase by an additional 0.25% per annum after the first 90 days; or
(iii) if (A) the Company has not exchanged Exchange Securities for all Securities validly tendered in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer on or prior to the Exchange Offer Consummation Deadline, (B) if applicable, the Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective and such Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective or usable during the Shelf Registration Effectiveness Period that exceeds the Suspension Period (as defined in Section 3) or (C) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has been declared effective but ceases to be effective or usable prior to the consummation of the Exchange Offer, then Additional Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the Registrable Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days commencing on the day after the Exchange Offer Consummation Deadline in the case of clause (A) or the day such Shelf Registration Statement or the Exchange Offer Registration Statement ceases to be effective in the case of clauses (B) and (C), as applicable, and such Additional Interest rate shall increase by an additional 0.25% per annum after the first 90 days (it being understood and agreed that, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, so long as any Securities not registered under an Exchange Offer Registration Statement are then covered by an effective Shelf Registration, no Additional Interest shall accrue on such Securities);
, , that the Additional Interest rate on the Securities may not exceed in the aggregate 0.50% per annum; , , that in no event shall the Company be obligated to pay Additional Interest under more than one of the clauses in this Section 2(d) at any one time; , , that (1) upon the filing of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (in the case of clause (i)(A) above) or a Shelf Registration Statement (in the case of clause (i)(B) above), (2) upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration (in the case of clause (ii)(A) above) or a Shelf Registration Statement (in the case of clause (ii)(B) above), (3) upon the exchange of Exchange Securities for all Securities tendered or the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement (in the case of clause (iii)(A) above), or upon the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement or the Exchange Offer Registration Statement which had ceased to remain effective (in the case of clause (iii)(B) above or clause (iii)(C) above), or (4) upon the Securities being sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1933 Act or having become freely transferable by Persons other than "affiliates" (as defined in Rule 144 under the 1933 Act) of the Company pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, in each case, under circumstances in which any restrictive legend borne by the Securities is removed, the Securities do not bear a restricted CUSIP number and such Securities are eligible to be sold pursuant to Rule 144 or any successor provisions, as the case may be, (in the case of either clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above), Additional Interest on the Securities as a result of such clause (or the relevant subclause thereof), as the case may be, shall cease to accrue.
provided
however
provided further
however
provided
further
however
 
(e) The Initial Purchasers and the Trustee shall be entitled, on behalf of the Holders, to seek any available remedy for the enforcement of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties agree that the exclusive remedy, monetary or otherwise, available to any Holder with respect to the registration defaults set forth in Sections 2(d)(i), (ii) and (iii) shall be Additional Interest.
(f) The Company represents, warrants and covenants that it (including its agents and representatives) will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any Free Writing Prospectus that may correct a material misstatement or omission contained in the Registration Statement.
3. .
Registration Procedures
In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to the Registration Statements pursuant to Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof, the Company shall expeditiously:
(a) Use commercially reasonable efforts to prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the 1933 Act, which form (x) shall be selected by the Company and (y) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the selling Holders thereof and (z) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith, and use commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
(b) Use commercially reasonable efforts to prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement and, as so supplemented, to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the 1933 Act; to keep each Prospectus current during the period described under Section 4(3) and Rule 174 under the 1933 Act that is applicable to transactions by brokers or dealers with respect to the Registrable Securities or Exchange Securities;
(c) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for the Holders and to each Underwriter of an Underwritten Offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto and such other documents as such Holder or Underwriter may reasonably request, in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities; and the Company consents to the use of such Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Securities and any such Underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by and in the manner described in such Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law;
 
(d) use commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement shall reasonably request in writing by the time the applicable Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC, to cooperate with such Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable such Holder to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; , , that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(d), (ii) file any general consent to service of process or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not so subject;
provided
however
(e) in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Holder of Registrable Securities, counsel for the Holders and counsel for the Initial Purchasers promptly and, if requested by any such Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing (i) when a Registration Statement has become effective and when any post-effective amendment thereto has been filed and becomes effective and when any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus has been filed, (ii) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, including the receipt by the Company of any notice of objection of the SEC to the use of a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, (iv) if, between the effective date of a Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of the Company contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to the offering cease to be true and correct in all material respects or if the Company receives any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose, (v) of the happening of any event during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective which makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (vi) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus would be appropriate;
(f) make every reasonable effort to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or, in the case of a Shelf Registration, the resolution of any objection of the SEC pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, including by filing an amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement on the proper form, at the earliest possible moment and provide immediate notice to each Holder of the withdrawal of any such order;
 
(g) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested);
(h) in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends and enable such Registrable Securities to be in such denominations (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) and registered in such names as the selling Holders may reasonably request at least one business day prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities;
(i) in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 3(e)(v) hereof, use its commercially reasonable efforts to prepare and file with the SEC a supplement or post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available) to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, subject to the Company's right to suspend the use of the Shelf Registration Statement during the Suspension Period, the Company agrees to notify the Holders to suspend use of the Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and the Holders hereby agree to suspend use of the Prospectus until the Company has amended or supplemented the Prospectus to correct such misstatement or omission;
(j) a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or any document which is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus after initial filing of a Registration Statement, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders and their counsel) and make such of the representatives of the Company as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders or their counsel) available for discussion of such document, and shall not at any time file or make any amendment to the Registration Statement, any Prospectus or any amendment of or supplement to a Registration Statement or a Prospectus or any document which is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, of which the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders and their counsel) shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders or their counsel) shall have not been provided reasonable opportunity to comment;
 
(k) obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement;
(l) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the ""), in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA and execute, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
TIA
(m) in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by a representative of the Holders of the Registrable Securities, any Underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, and attorneys and accountants designated by the Holders, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, all financial and other records, pertinent documents and properties of the Company, and cause the respective officers, directors and employees of the Company to supply all information reasonably requested by any such representative, Underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement; , , that the foregoing inspection and information gathering shall be coordinated on behalf of the Initial Purchasers by the Representatives and on behalf of the other parties, by one counsel designated by and on behalf of such Holders by the Majority Holders;
provided
however
(n) in the case of a Shelf Registration, use commercially reasonable efforts to cause all Registrable Securities to be listed on any securities exchange or any automated quotation system on which similar securities issued by the Company are then listed if requested by the Majority Holders, to the extent such Registrable Securities satisfy applicable listing requirements;
(o) use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Securities to continue to be rated by two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (as such term is defined in Rule 436(g)(2) under the 1933 Act), if the Registrable Securities have been rated;
(p) if reasonably requested by any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement, (i) promptly incorporate in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information with respect to such Holder as such Holder reasonably requests to be included therein and (ii) make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as the Company has received notification of the matters to be incorporated in such filing; and
(q) comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and in the case of a Shelf Registration, make generally available to its securityholders earning statements (which need not be audited) satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder (or any similar rule promulgated under the 1933 Act)
 
no later than 45 days after the end of any 12-month period (or 90 days after the end of any 12-month period if such period is a fiscal year) commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter of the Company commencing after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement, which statements shall cover said 12-month periods.
(r) in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into such customary agreements and take all such other actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities including, but not limited to, an Underwritten Offering and in such connection, (i) to the extent possible, make such representations and warranties to the Holders and any Underwriters of such Registrable Securities with respect to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries, the Registration Statement, Prospectus and documents incorporated by reference or deemed incorporated by reference, if any, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings and confirm the same in writing if and when requested, (ii) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company (which counsel and opinions, in form, scope and substance, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Holders and such Underwriters and their respective counsel) addressed to each selling Holder and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in Underwritten Offerings, (iii) obtain "comfort" letters from the independent certified public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other certified public accountant of any subsidiary of the Company, or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are or are required to be included in the Registration Statement) addressed to each selling Holder and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with Underwritten Offerings and (iv) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Majority Holders of the Registrable Securities being sold or the Underwriters, and which are customarily delivered in Underwritten Offerings, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties of the Company made pursuant to clause (i) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in an underwriting agreement.
In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 3(e)(v) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(i) hereof, and, if so directed by the Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company (at its expense) all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice. If the Company shall give any such notice to suspend the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant
 
to a Registration Statement, the Company shall extend the period during which the Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions. The Company may give any such notice of suspension that may not exceed 120 days in the aggregate during any 12-month period (the "").
Suspension Period
The Holders of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Registrable Securities in an Underwritten Offering. In any such Underwritten Offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers (the "") that will administer the offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of the Registrable Securities included in such offering.
Underwriters
4. .
Participation of Broker-Dealers in Exchange Offer
(a) The staff of the SEC has taken the position that any broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a ""), may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the 1933 Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
Participating Broker-Dealer
The Company understands that it is the staff of the SEC's position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Securities, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Securities owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligation under the 1933 Act in connection with resales of Exchange Securities for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the 1933 Act.
(b) In light of the above, notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, the Company agrees that the provisions of this Agreement as they relate to a Shelf Registration shall also apply to an Exchange Offer Registration to the extent, and with such reasonable modifications thereto as may be, reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers, in each case as provided in clause (ii) below, in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of any Exchange Securities by Participating Broker-Dealers consistent with the positions of the staff of the SEC recited in Section 4(a) above; that:
provided
(i) the Company shall not be required to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as would otherwise be contemplated by Section 3(i), for a period exceeding 90 days after the last Exchange Date (as such period may be extended pursuant to the penultimate paragraph of Section 3 of this Agreement) and Participating Broker-Dealers shall not be authorized by the Company to deliver and shall not deliver such Prospectus after such period in connection with the resales contemplated by this Section 4; and
 
(ii) the application of the Shelf Registration procedures set forth in Section 3 of this Agreement to an Exchange Offer Registration, to the extent not required by the positions of the staff of the SEC or the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, will be in conformity with the reasonable request to the Company by the Initial Purchasers or with the reasonable request in writing to the Company by one or more broker-dealers who certify to the Initial Purchasers and the Company in writing that they anticipate that they will be Participating Broker-Dealers; and that, in connection with such application of the Shelf Registration procedures set forth in Section 3 to an Exchange Offer Registration, the Company shall be obligated (x) to deal only with one entity representing the Participating Broker-Dealers, which shall be Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated unless it elects not to act as such representative, (y) to pay the reasonable fees and expenses of only one counsel representing the Participating Broker-Dealers, which shall be counsel to the Initial Purchasers unless such counsel elects not to so act and (z) to cause to be delivered only one, if any, "comfort" letter with respect to the Prospectus in the form existing on the last Exchange Date and with respect to each subsequent amendment or supplement, if any, effected during the period specified in clause (i) above.
provided
further
(c) The Initial Purchasers shall have no liability to the Company or any Holder with respect to any request that it may make pursuant to Section 4(b) above.
5. .
Indemnification and Contribution
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Initial Purchasers, each Holder and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, or is under common control with, or is controlled by, any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, from and against all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Initial Purchasers, any Holder or any such controlling or affiliated Person in connection with defending or investigating any such action or claim) caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) pursuant to which Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities were registered under the 1933 Act, including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), any Free Writing Prospectus used in violation of this Agreement or any "issuer information" ("") filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary to make the statements therein in light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities are caused by any such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission based upon information relating to the Initial Purchasers or any Holder furnished to the Company in writing
Issuer Information
 
by the Initial Purchasers or any selling Holder expressly for use therein; , , that with respect to any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in any Prospectus relating to a Registration Statement, the indemnity agreement contained in this subsection (a) shall not inure to the benefit of any Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer from whom the person asserting any such losses, claims, damages or liabilities purchased the Securities concerned, to the extent that a Prospectus relating to such Securities was required to be delivered by such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer under the 1933 Act in accordance with applicable law in connection with such purchase and any such losses, claims, damages or liabilities of such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer result from the fact that there was not sent or given to such person if required by law, at or prior to the written confirmation of the sale of such Securities to such person, a copy of the Prospectus if the Company had previously furnished copies thereof to such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer. In connection with any Underwritten Offering permitted by Section 3, the Company will also indemnify the Underwriters, if any, selling brokers, dealers and similar securities industry professionals participating in the distribution, their officers and directors and each Person who controls such Persons (within the meaning of the 1933 Act and the 1934 Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the Holders, if requested in connection with any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus or any Issuer Information.
provided
however
(b) Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Initial Purchasers and the other selling Holders, and each of their respective directors, officers who sign the Registration Statement and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, any Initial Purchaser and any other selling Holder within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, but only with reference to information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), any Free Writing Prospectus or any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
(c) In case any proceeding (including any governmental investigation) shall be instituted involving any Person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) above, such Person (the "") shall promptly notify the Person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "") in writing and the indemnifying party, upon request of the indemnified party, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party and any others the indemnifying party may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the reasonable fees and disbursements of such counsel related to such proceeding. In any such proceeding, any indemnified party shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party unless (i) the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (ii) the named parties to any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the indemnifying party and the indemnified party and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for (a) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for the Company, its directors, its officers who sign the Registration Statement and each Person, if any, who controls the Company within the
indemnified party
indemnifying party
 
meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, (b) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for the Initial Purchasers and all Persons, if any, who control the Initial Purchasers within the meaning of either such Section and (c) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Holders and all Persons, if any, who control any Holders within the meaning of either such Section, and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. In such case involving the Holders and such Persons who control Holders, such firm shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders. In such case involving the Company and such Persons who control the Company, such firm shall be designated by the Company, and in such case involving the Initial Purchasers and such Persons who control the Initial Purchasers, such firm shall be designated by the Initial Purchasers. The indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent but, if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for reasonable fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by the second and third sentences of this paragraph, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party for such fees and expenses of counsel in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which such indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding.
(d) If the indemnification provided for in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this Section 5 is unavailable to an indemnified party or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, then each indemnifying party under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and of the indemnified party or parties on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company and the Holders shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Holders and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Holders' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 5(d) are several in proportion to the respective principal amount of Registrable Securities of such Holder that were registered pursuant to a Registration Statement.
(e) The Company and each Holder agree that it would not be just or equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by allocation or by any other
pro
rata
 
method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, no Holder shall be required to indemnify or contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which Registrable Securities were sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any indemnified party at law or in equity.
The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers, any Holder or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of the Company, its officers or directors or any Person controlling the Company, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
6. .
Miscellaneous
(a) . The Company has not entered into, and on or after the date of this Agreement will not enter into, any agreement which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
No Inconsistent Agreements
(b) . The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Majority Holders affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent; , , that no amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent to any departure from the provisions of Section 5 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder.
Amendments and Waivers
provided
however
(c) . All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telex, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c), which addresses initially are, with respect to the Initial Purchasers, the addresses set forth in the Purchase Agreement; and (ii) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c).
Notices
 
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next business day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture.
(d) . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof. The Initial Purchasers (in their capacity as Initial Purchasers) shall have no liability or obligation to the Company with respect to any failure by a Holder to comply with, or any breach by any Holder of, any of the obligations of such Holder under this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns
provided
(e) . The Company shall not, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its affiliates (as defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act) not to, purchase and then resell or otherwise transfer any Securities.
Purchases and Sales of Securities
(f) . The Holders shall be third party beneficiaries to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiary
(g) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
(h) . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
(i) . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York without regard to the conflict of law rules of said State.
Governing Law
 
(j) . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed
and accepted as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
For themselves as Representatives
and on behalf of the other several Initial Purchasers
(as defined in the Purchase Agreement)

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
New York, NY  June 15, 2009 The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (NYSE: IPG) announced today the closing of its private placement of $600 million in aggregate principal amount of its 10.0% Senior Notes due 2017. The net proceeds were approximately $572 million after deducting discounts, commissions and estimated offering expenses.
Interpublic intends to use proceeds from the offering to fund its ongoing tender offer to purchase outstanding 7.25% Notes due 2011 and Floating Rate Notes due 2010. Any funds raised in the offering but not used in the tender offer will be used for the repayment, repurchase or redemption of other indebtedness, general corporate purposes and working capital.
The notes have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration under the Act or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Act and any applicable state securities laws. This press release is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities.
About Interpublic
Interpublic is one of the world's leading organizations of advertising agencies and marketing services companies. Major global brands include Draftfcb, FutureBrand, GolinHarris International, Initiative, Jack Morton Worldwide, Lowe Worldwide, Magna, McCann Erickson, Momentum, MRM Worldwide, Octagon, Universal McCann and Weber Shandwick. Leading domestic brands include Campbell-Ewald, Campbell Mithun, Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch, Hill Holliday, Mullen, The Martin Agency and R/GA. For more information, please visit .
www.interpublic.com
Contact Information
 
 


