FILE:IPG/IPG-8K-20100122172624.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
(b)  On January 21, 2010, the Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. issued a press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, announcing that Nick Brien has been designated to succeed John Dooner as Chief Executive Officer of McCann Worldgroup.  The move will become effective April 1, 2010.  Mr. Dooner will stay on as Chairman of McCann Worldgroup through 2010.
  
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This report contains forward-looking statements.  Statements in this report that are not historical facts, including statements about managements beliefs and expectations, constitute forward-looking statements.  These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and are subject to change based on a number of factors, including those outlined under Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
 
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.  A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investors should carefully consider these factors and the additional risk factors outlined in more detail in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1A, Risk Factors.
 
 
 

 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
New York, NY  January 21, 2010  The Interpublic Group (NYSE: IPG) announced today that Nick Brien has been designated to succeed John Dooner as CEO of McCann Worldgroup.  The move, which will become effective April 1, is the culmination of a multi-year plan led by IPGs Chairman and CEO Michael Roth and its Board of Directors to ensure a seamless management transition at the holding companys largest operating unit.  Mr. Dooner, who also played an active role in the process, will stay on as Chairman of McCann Worldgroup through 2010 to ensure a seamless transition.
McCann Worldgroup is a global integrated marketing powerhouse and we wanted to be sure that the selection of new leadership was implemented as thoughtfully and thoroughly as possible, said Mr. Roth.  This will ensure that the agencys future lives up to its storied place in the history of our industry.  With the guidance of the board and Johns active participation, I am confident that we have considered the most comprehensive slate of candidates.  Nick has experience at senior levels in agencies across the full range of marketing services and hes accomplished great things since joining us to lead UM a few years back  we are all in agreement that he is a terrific choice to lead McCann at this vital time of change and opportunity in media and marketing.  John built the Worldgroup and has in recent years helped revitalize its offerings across multiple marketing disciplines.  I know he is totally focused on helping Nick to achieve a smooth transition through the balance of this year.  Beyond 2010, we will look for opportunities to continue tapping into Johns unique range of experience as an advisor on global advertising matters.
Mr. Dooner added that Nick has a vision of where our industry is going and how to position agencies to be ahead of these changes.  He has the passion and drive that are required to lead a complex, global company.  I am enormously proud of McCann Worldgroups record of success and innovation and all of my colleagues who have helped set the standard for our industry and Im confident Nick will do an extraordinary job to raise the bar even higher.
Our industry is undergoing radical transformation.  To keep pace with the changes being driven by emerging technology, it is vital to focus on collaboration, creativity and organizational flexibility, said Mr. Brien.  The turnaround at Mediabrands is a testament to these qualities, as well as to our partnership with the senior team at IPG.  I look forward to working with McCann management, notably COO Eric Keshin and members of the Worldgroup board, to invigorate and accelerate the companys progress along a similar path to future success.  And I am honored to be presented the opportunity to lead one of our industrys great brands.
Mr. Roth added that, in the wake of Mr. Briens move to McCann Worldgroup, Mediabrands will be led by an Office of the Chairman, reporting directly to him.  The Office of the Chairman will be comprised of Richard Beaven, CEO of Initiative, Tara Comonte, Mediabrands COO and CFO, Matt Freeman, the recently-named CEO of Mediabrands Ventures and Matt Seiler, CEO of UM.  A decision concerning a new CEO for Mediabrands is not contemplated until 2011.
About Interpublic
Interpublic is one of the world's leading organizations of advertising agencies and marketing services companies.  Major global brands include Draftfcb, FutureBrand, GolinHarris International, Initiative, Jack Morton Worldwide, Lowe Worldwide, Magna, McCann Erickson, Momentum, MRM Worldwide, Octagon, Universal McCann and Weber Shandwick.  Leading domestic brands include Campbell-Ewald; Campbell Mithun; Carmichael Lynch; Deutsch, a Lowe & Partners Company; Hill Holliday; Mullen; The Martin Agency and R/GA.  For more information, please visit .
www.interpublic.com
Contact Information
 
 
 


