FILE:IPG/IPG-8K-20110301150107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01.          Other Events
 
On February 25, 2011, the Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.(IPG) issued a press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein, announcing that the IPG Board of Directors had (i) initiated a quarterly dividend on IPG common stock and declared a common stock cash dividend of $0.06 per share, payable on March 25, 2011 to holders of record at the close of business on March 11, 2011, and (ii) authorized a program to repurchase from time to time up to $300 million of IPG common stock.
 
Item 9.01            Financial Statements and Exhibitis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
that on February 24, 2011, the companys Board of Directors initiated a quarterly dividend on IPG common stock and declared a common stock cash dividend of $0.06 per share, payable on March 25, 2011 to holders of record at the close of business on March 11, 2011.
NEW YORK(BUSINESS WIRE)Interpublic (NYSE: IPG)
today announced
The company also announced on February 24, 2011 the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase from time to time up to $300 million of IPG common stock.  Repurchases under the program may be effected through open market purchases, trading plans established in accordance with SEC rules, derivative transactions or other means.  The timing and amount of repurchases under the authorization will depend on market conditions and the companys other funding requirements.  The share repurchase program has no expiration date.  Interpublic expects to begin purchases under the program in the first quarter of 2011.
that
Interpublic
The dividend and share repurchase programs are important milestones for us, which signal confidence in the sustainability of our strong competitive performance, said Michael I. Roth, Interpublics Chairman and CEO.  They also underscore that we are in position to deliver on our commitment to returning capital to our shareholders, while continuing to invest in the long-term growth needs of the business.
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Interpublic
Interpublic is one of the world's leading organizations of advertising agencies and marketing services companies.  Major global brands include Draftfcb, FutureBrand, GolinHarris International, Initiative, Jack Morton Worldwide, Lowe Worldwide, Magna, McCann Erickson, Momentum, MRM Worldwide, Octagon, R/GA, UM and Weber Shandwick.  Leading domestic brands include Campbell-Ewald; Campbell Mithun; Carmichael Lynch; Deutsch, a Lowe & Partners Company; Hill Holliday; ID Media; Mullen and The Martin Agency.  For more information, please visit .
www.interpublic.com
Contact Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement
 
This release contains forward-looking statements.  Statements in this release that are not historical facts, including statements about managements beliefs and expectations, constitute forward-looking statements.  These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and are subject to change based on a number of factors, including those outlined under Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
 
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.  A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investors should carefully consider these factors and the additional risk factors outlined in more detail under Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


