FILE:IPG/IPG-8K-20110331165544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events.
 
On March 29, 2011, The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (Interpublic) hosted an Investor Day, at which corporate and agency management presented a comprehensive overview of strategy, operations and finance at the holding company and its major global operating units.  As part of the Investor Day, Michael Roth, Chairman and CEO of Interpublic, presented a strategic overview of the industry and the company, and Chief Financial Officer Frank Mergenthaler provided a detailed financial perspective and outlook for Interpublic and announced that the company is targeting 2014 to reach its operating margin objective of 13%.  Copies of Mr. Roths and Mr. Mergenthalers presentations are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3.
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This current report contains forward-looking statements.  Statements in this report that are not historical facts, including statements about managements beliefs and expectations, constitute forward-looking statements.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, words such as may, will, expect, believe, anticipate, intend, could, would, estimate, continue or comparable terminology are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and are subject to change based on a number of factors, including those outlined in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1A, Risk Factors.   Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
 
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.  A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investors should carefully consider these factors and the additional risk factors outlined in more detail in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1A, Risk Factors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 





