FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20021002161349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.  REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On October 2, 2002, Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release with respect to sales and earnings for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended August 31, 2002, and announcing plans of the Founder and Chairman of the Board, Leon Levine, to retire.  The Company is filing this Form 8-K pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation FD.  A copy of the news release is attached hereto and is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.1.  A copy of the Retirement Agreement dated September 30, 2002, between the Company and Leon Levine is attached hereto and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 

Exhibit 10
This Retirement Agreement (the "Agreement"), is made and entered into by and between Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Delaware Corporation, and all subsidiaries and affiliated entities (the "Company"), and Leon Levine ("Levine");
WHEREAS
,Levine is the Chairman of the Board and is involved in the management of the Company;
WHEREAS
,Levine has been considering the possibility of retirement from the Company;
WHEREAS
, in contemplation of Levine's possible retirement, Levine and the Company negotiated mutually beneficial terms relating to his retirement, and now desire to enter into the terms negotiated, as set forth in this Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE,
 the parties, intending legally to be bound, hereby agree to the mutual terms and conditions set forth below:
1.     .  Levine shall retire from the Company, effective January 16, 2003.  In connection with his retirement, Levine shall resign his position as Director and Chairman of the Board and relinquish all positions and responsibilities with or to the Company, except as specifically set forth in this Agreement.  In addition, all compensation and benefits currently received by or available to Levine shall terminate upon his retirement, and Levine shall only be entitled to the compensation and benefits specifically set forth in this Agreement.
Retirement
2.     .  In exchange for the benefits payable to Levine in paragraph 3 of this Agreement, Levine shall comply with the following obligations to the Company:
Obligations of Levine
        A.  .
Confidentiality of Company Information
        The parties acknowledge and agree that Levine has knowledge of confidential information of the Company, and that there are no written or oral agreements between Levine and the Company preventing Levine from using or disclosing such information after his retirement.
                        By entering into this Agreement, the parties expressly acknowledge and agree that there is significant value to the Company in its competitive market if Levine agrees to preserve and not disclose to others any confidential information of the Company.
                        For purposes of this Agreement, "Confidential Information" of the Company shall include (1) vendor information, including but not limited to, names of vendors, vendor transaction information, or billing, purchasing or credit history information about vendors; (2) financial information, including but not limited to, financial statements, balance sheets, profit and loss statements, earnings, commissions, benefits and salaries paid to employees, sales data and projections, sales and income forecasts, cost analyses, pricing information, business goals and projections, equipment and inventory data, profit margins, and similar information; (3) all sources and methods of supply, including but not limited to supplier lists, business arrangements, buying and inventory techniques, supply terms, supply and manufacturing contracts, purchasing discounts, distribution agreements, and similar information; (4) all plans and projections for business opportunities for new or developing business, including but not limited to, marketing concepts, business plans, merchandising and marketing techniques, store leases, store site selection and location plans, real estate activities, real estate/expansion information, advertising strategies, product lines, store development, and sales plans; (5) all information relating to costs, research and development activities, service performance, quality control measures or strategies, loss prevention measures, operating results, pricing strategies, employee lists and  personnel, and other confidential or proprietary information, software, designs, patents, ideas, machinery, plans, know-how and trade secrets; (6) any of the information described in subsections (1) - (5) of this provision obtained from another party or entity that the Company treats or designates as confidential or proprietary information, whether or not such information is owned or was developed by the Company; and (7) all other confidential or trade secret information that became known to Levine in the course of his employment with the Company. "Confidential Information" shall not include information that is generally known or available to the public or the industry as a whole.
        Levine hereby acknowledges and agrees that for the period of time through January 15, 2005, and unless expressly authorized in advance in writing by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, or as ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction, or as otherwise required by law, he will not:
 
(1)   Misappropriate; use for the purpose of competing with the Company, either directly or indirectly; disclose to any third party, not affiliated with the Company, either directly or indirectly; or aid anyone else in disclosing to any third party, not affiliated with the Company, either directly or indirectly; all or any part of any Confidential Information of the Company; or
 
(2)   Use, disclose, divulge or communicate directly or indirectly to any third party non-public details of any contracts, business transactions or negotiations to which the Company has been or is a party or of any tenders, offers or proposals submitted or to be submitted by the Company in connection with its business.
 
Levine also acknowledges and agrees that: (1) all sales files, vendor records, vendor lists, real estate prospect information, research and development data, manuals, letters, contracts, agreements, proposals, notes, notebooks, records, reports, memoranda
and all other Company materials, documents and data used, prepared or collected by him as part of his employment with the Company, in whatever form, and (2) all Confidential Information (as defined above) and records containing any Confidential Information that came into his possession while an employee of the Company, whether prepared by him or others, are and will remain the property of the Company; provided, however, that Levine will identify any non-confidential Company documents in his office or adjacent thereto that he would like to keep and the Company shall allow him to keep such documents on the condition that Levine shall not disclose those documents to any competitors of the Company and not use those documents in any form of competition with the Company.
 
B.  .
Non-Solicitation and Non-Referral of Employees
The parties acknowledge and agree that there are no written or oral agreements between Levine and the Company prohibiting Levine from soliciting employees to terminate their employment with the Company, nor are there any agreements prohibiting Levine from referring employees of the Company for possible employment to others.
By entering into this Agreement, the parties expressly acknowledge and agree that there is significant value to the Company in its competitive market in maintaining the employees of the Company and in avoiding the loss of those employees through solicitation or referrals by Levine.
Levine hereby acknowledges and agrees that for the period of time through January 15, 2005, he will not directly or indirectly: (1) approach, solicit, offer employment to or in any manner induce or seek to induce any employee of the Company in the position at that time of Regional Vice President or Divisional Vice President or in any higher Officer position, including Vice President, Senior Vice President, Executive Vice President, Vice Chairman, President and Chairman of the Board (the "Designated Employees") to become employed by someone other than the Company; (2) approach, solicit or encourage any Designated Employee of the Company to terminate his or her employment with the Company; (3) refer any Designated Employee of the Company for employment with someone other than the Company; or (4) otherwise interfere with any Designated Employee's relationship with the Company.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Janice B. Burris, the Company's Assistant Secretary and Levine's Administrative Assistant, and Cindy Woller, Levine's Staff Accountant, shall not be considered Designated Employees.
 
C.  .
Non-Interference With Suppliers and Vendors
The parties acknowledge and agree that there are no written or oral agreements between Levine and the Company prohibiting Levine from soliciting suppliers or vendors to terminate their relationship with the Company, nor are there any
agreements prohibiting Levine from referring suppliers and vendors to competitors of the Company.
By entering into this Agreement, the parties expressly acknowledge and agree that there is significant value to the Company in its competitive market in maintaining relationships with suppliers and vendors of the Company, and in avoiding the loss of such suppliers or vendors through solicitations or referrals by Levine.
Levine hereby acknowledges and agrees that for the period through January 15, 2005, he will not directly or indirectly: (1) approach, solicit, or in any manner induce or seek to induce any supplier or vendor of the Company to move their business to someone other than the Company;  (2) approach, solicit or encourage any supplier or vendor of the Company to terminate their relationship with the Company; (3) refer any supplier or vendor of the Company for relationships with someone other than the Company; or (4) otherwise interfere with any relationship between the Company and any of its suppliers or vendors; provided that the foregoing will not prohibit Levine from offering or assisting anyone in offering property for sale to the Company.
D.  .
Non-Competition
The parties acknowledge and agree that competition by Levine within 2 years after his retirement would be detrimental to the Company, and that there are no written or oral agreements preventing Levine from competing with the Company following his retirement.
For purpose of this Agreement, "Present Territory" means all counties, towns and cities in the following areas where the Company does business:  North Carolina, Virginia, Georgia, South Carolina, West Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Tennessee, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Arkansas, Ohio, Texas, Delaware, Indiana, New Jersey, Missouri, Oklahoma, Illinois, Michigan, Kansas, Iowa, New York, Wisconsin, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Vermont, New Hampshire, Minnesota, Nebraska, South Dakota, Colorado, New Mexico, Maine, Arizona, Utah, Nevada and the District of Columbia.
For purposes of this Agreement, "Future Territory" means all counties, towns and cities in States or countries other than those listed in the definition of Present Territory in which the Company does business through January 15, 2005.
For purposes of this Agreement, "Competitive Company" means a corporation, partnership, proprietorship or any other legal entity operating discount retail stores in the Present Territory or the Future Territory, the majority of which stores each have 50,000 square feet or less of total space, including non-selling areas, and that sell or offer for sale merchandise similar or identical to the merchandise sold by the Company.
Levine agrees that for the period of time through January 15, 2005, he will not, directly or indirectly: (1) engage in any competition with the Company, or its successors or assigns, for or on behalf of any Competitive Company, or (2) provide information to, or travel, canvass, advertise, solicit or sell for, or acquire an interest in,
become employed by, act as agent for, or in any manner assist, any Competitive Company.  The foregoing provisions, however, shall not prohibit Levine from making investments in any securities listed on the New York or American Stock Exchanges or actively traded in the over-the-counter market, nor prohibit Levine from making investments of any nature in any securities of the Company.
The foregoing provisions also shall not prohibit Levine during the period of time through January 15, 2005, from owning or operating or assisting others in owning and operating up to ten retail stores, other than "dollar stores" or stores that will be in competition with the Company, none of which may be located within one mile of a Family Dollar store.
3.     .  In exchange for the obligations of Levine to the Company in paragraph 2 of this Agreement, the Company shall comply with the following obligations to Levine:
Obligations of the Company
                      A. Beginning on the January 16, 2003 date of Levine's retirement, the Company will provide the following benefits; however, for purposes only of the benefits set forth in subparagraphs 4 and 5 below, the January 15, 2005 dates in paragraphs 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D of this Agreement shall be extended for the period of time that the benefits are available after January 15, 2005, and if Levine then chooses after January 15, 2005 not to comply with the restrictions in paragraphs 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D, as extended, the benefits in subparagraphs 4 and 5 below shall be modified as set forth in those subparagraphsand provided further that if Levine and his wife, Sandra Levine, both die before the Company has discharged all of its obligations under subparagraphs 4 and 5 below, the Company shall pay to Levine's designated beneficiary, or if none, to The Leon Levine Foundation Donor Advised Fund of the Foundation of the Carolinas, (a) with respect to subparagraph 4, a cash lump sum equal to $ 49 per day (if Levine is the last to die) or $ 37 per day (if Sandra Levine is the last to die), from the date of death of the last to die until what would have been the 80 birthday of the last to die, and (b) quarterly payments of cash in the amount determined as provided in subparagraph 5 from the date of death of the last to die through what would have been the 80 birthday of the last to die:
;
th
th
 
                                   
                    1.     Continuation for Levine's life of the same or comparable medical insurance Levine is currently provided by the Company, including coverage for his wife, Sandra Levine, and his daughter, Amy Levine, until, with regard to Amy Levine, such time as she is no longer eligible for coverage under the terms of the current medical insurance plan.  If Levine predeceases Sandra Levine before she reaches age 65, coverage for Sandra Levine will continue until the date she reaches age 65.
                                   
                    2.     Continuation for a period of ten years of the same or comparable personal liability umbrella insurance Levine is currently provided by the Company.
                                   
                    3.     Continuation for Levine's life of coverage under the Company's Directors  and Officers liability insurance for all periods when Levine was an Officer and Director of the Company.
                                   
                    4.     Continuation until Levine reaches age 80 of the use of Levine's current Company office and the use of the Company office (or equivalent space) currently occupied by Levine's financial advisor, including for any personal use he may desire that is not contrary to any of his obligations under this Agreement; provided, however, if Levine states his desire to vacate such office spaces in order to relocate to other offices prior to the time Levine reaches age 80, or if Levine on or after January 15, 2005 does not continue to comply with the restrictions in paragraphs 2A, 2B, 2C or 2D, as  extended for purposes of this subparagraph as set forth above, then Levine will vacate the offices and Levine will receive at that time in full discharge of all the Company's obligations under this subparagraph 4, a lump sum payment equal to $250,000 reduced by the amount of $ 49 per diem for the period from June 30, 2003 to the date Levine vacates the offices. If prior to vacating the offices, Levine predeceases Sandra Levine before she reaches age 80, Sandra Levine may use appropriate Company office  space in close proximity to the office space of Levine's financial advisor from the date of Levine's death until the date she reaches age 80. Levine (or Sandra Levine upon Levine's death or incapacity) may remove from his office any personal property belonging to him, including without limitation his Rosewood desk, matching Rosewood credenza, cocktail table and end table, Oriental 6-panel silkscreen artwork, framed pictures of the Carolina Panthers Stadium and the Levine Science Research Center at Duke, and other personal memorabilia.
                                   
                    5.     Use of Company aircraft for personal use upon reasonable notice for up to 30 hours per year for Levine's life, and if Levine predeceases Sandra Levine before she reaches age 80, Sandra Levine may use the Company aircraft upon reasonable notice for up to 30 hours per year from the date of Levine's death until the date she reaches age 80; provided, however, if during Levine's lifetime on or after January 15, 2005, Levine does not continue to comply with the restrictions in paragraphs 2A, 2B, 2C or 2D, as  extended for purposes of this subparagraph as set forth above, use of the Company aircraft shall end and Levine shall be paid quarterly payments of cash (payable to Sandra Levine after Levine's death until the earlier of her death or her reaching age 80) in an amount mutually agreed by the Company and Levine (or determined by a qualified independent appraiser if such parties cannot agree) to be equal to the then current value of such benefit based on the assumption that the available hours of use of the aircraft would be divided into four equal segments each year.
Levine acknowledges that income may be imputed to him in connection with the receipt of the aforesaid benefits and that Levine will be responsible for the payment of all federal or state tax liabilities, penalties, interest, tax payments or tax judgments that could arise as a result of these benefits.
4.     .
Company's Remedy If Levine Breaches This Agreement
                        A.  .
Reasonableness of Levine's Obligations to the Company
                        Levine acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions imposed upon him by this Agreement, as well as the other obligations imposed upon him by this Agreement, are reasonable restrictions and obligations given the benefits he will receive under this Agreement.  In particular, he understands that given his long standing association with the Company, he has significant knowledge regarding the operations of the Company, and any violation by him of the confidentiality, non-solicitation or non-competition restrictions in this Agreement will be detrimental and harmful to the ongoing operations of the Company.  Therefore, even though the restrictions cover numerous states and restrict Levine's access to compete with the Company within those numerous states, Levine acknowledges and agrees that those restrictions, as well as his other obligations under this Agreement, are patently reasonable, and will not ever be violated by or challenged by him.  Accordingly, Levine agrees that because the restrictions on him and his obligations under this Agreement are reasonable, he will not contest the validity or enforceability of any of his obligations under this Agreement and he will do everything within his power to ensure that he does not violate the restrictions and obligations of this Agreement, either directly or indirectly.
                        B.  .
Fairness of Consideration
                        The parties agree that the consideration to the parties is fair and reasonable under all of the circumstances.
                        C.  .
Forfeiture of Compensation and Benefits Upon Breach
                Levine acknowledges and agrees that because of the importance of his restrictions and obligations to the Company set forth in this Agreement, any violation of those restrictions and obligations will cause substantial harm to the Company, and therefore, Levine expressly acknowledges and agrees that if he violates or breaches any of the restrictions or obligations in this Agreement, all remaining benefits under paragraph 3 of this Agreement shall be forfeited.  The Company agrees to give Levine written notice in the manner set forth in paragraph 7 of any such violation or breach and a period of ten days from the date the notice is sent to cure the violation or breach.  Levine agrees to give the Company written notice in the manner set forth in paragraph 7 of any breach by the Company of its obligations and a period of ten days from the date the notice is sent to cure the breach. If the action constituting the breach or violation was taken in the good faith absence of awareness that it was a breach or violation, it may be cured within the meaning of this paragraph by the transgressor's discontinuance of and good faith best efforts to remedy the action, but an intentional breach or violation not in good faith can be cured only by discontinuance and a remedy to the satisfaction of the injured party. If a breach or violation is not cured as permitted in this paragraph, the forfeiture of benefits described above will be effective as of the initial date of the breach or violation.
5.     .  Levine acknowledges that he has carefully read this Agreement, that he knows and understands the contents of this Agreement, that he has had ample opportunity to review the terms of this Agreement, that he is under no pressure to execute this Agreement, that he has consulted with or had the opportunity to consult with a lawyer regarding this Agreement, and that he executes this Agreement of his own free will.
Acknowledgment by Levine
6.     .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina.
Governing Law
7.     .  Any notice or other communications to be given hereunder shall be deemed to have been given or delivered when delivered by hand to the individuals named below or when deposited in United States mail, registered or certified, with proper postage and registration or certification fees prepaid, addressed to the parties as follows (or to such other address as one party shall give the other in the manner provided herein);
Notices
 
 
8.  .  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties pertaining to the subject matter contained herein and supersedes any and all prior and contemporaneous agreements, representations, promises, inducements and understandings of the parties. This written Agreement cannot be varied, contradicted or supplemented by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous oral or written agreements.  Moreover, this written Agreement may not be later modified except by a further writing signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company and Levine.
Entire Agreement
Specifically, and without limitation, each party hereby fully and finally releases and discharges the other party, and in addition Levine releases the respective officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns of the Company, from any and all claims, demands, lawsuits, or actions of any kind whatsoever, whether known or unknown, whether asserted or unasserted, based on any matters prior to and up until the date of this Agreement,
including all matters relating in any way to Levine's retirement; provided, however, the parties agree that this Release does not release either party of that party's obligations, nor affect that party's rights, under this Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Leon Levine has executed this Agreement on the 30th day of September 2002, and the Company has executed this Agreement on the 30th day of September 2002.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
CONTACT:
George R. Mahoney, Jr.
Executive Vice President
(704) 814-3252
http://www.familydollar.com
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOUNDER AND CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD ANNOUNCES PLANS TO RETIRE
 
 
MATTHEWS, NC, October 2, 2002
 Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE: FDO), a discount store chain operating 4,615 stores in 41 states, reported that sales and earnings for the fourth quarter and for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2002, were the highest in the Company's history.  For the fourth quarter ended August 31, 2002, sales were $1,058.3 million, or 14.9% above sales of $920.8 million for the fourth quarter ended September 1, 2001.  Net income was $41.9 million, or 22.9% above net income of $34.1 million for the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year, and net income per diluted share increased to $.24 from $.20.
 
     Sales for the fifty-two weeks in the fiscal year ended August 31, 2002, were $4,162.7 million, or 13.6% above sales of $3,665.4 million for the fifty-three weeks in the fiscal year ended September 1, 2001.  Net income was $216.9 million for fiscal 2002, or 14.5% above net income of $189.5 million for fiscal 2001, and net income per diluted share increased to $1.25 from $1.10.  The calendar followed by the Company and most retailers included a non-comparative fifth week in January 2001 resulting in an extra week in last year's second quarter.  As previously reported, sales for the fifth week in January 2001 were approximately $66.5 million.
 
     T
he sales gains in the fourth quarter are attributable to increased sales in existing stores and to sales from new stores opened as part of the Company's store expansion program.  Sales in existing stores increased approximately 4.4% in the fourth quarter ended August 31, 2002, above the comparable period last year, including an increase of approximately 7.4% in sales of hardlines and a decrease of approximately 5.1 % in sales of softlines.  The customer count, as measured by the number of register
 
 
transactions in existing stores, increased approximately 2.2%, and the average transaction increased approximately 2.1% to $8.62.
 
     Excluding the non-comparative fifth week in January 2001, sales in existing stores for comparable fifty-two week periods increased approximately 5.8%.  This included an increase of approximately 8.4% in sales of hardlines and a decrease of approximately 1.7% in sales of softlines.  In fiscal 2002, the customer count increased approximately 3.8% and the average transaction increased approximately 1.9% to $8.73.
 
     The increase in total sales also is attributable to sales from new stores.  During the fourth quarter ended August 31, 2002, 189 new stores opened and 4 stores closed.  During the fiscal year, the Company opened 525 stores, representing the largest number of openings in any one year in Family Dollar's history.  Fifty stores were closed and at the end of the fiscal year on August 31, 2002, 4,616 stores were operating in 41 states.
 
     In commenting on the record operating results in the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended August 31, 2002, Howard R. Levine, President and Chief Executive Officer, noted that with the 22.9% increase in earnings in the fourth quarter, the Company has now reported 26 consecutive quarters of earnings increases.  Family Dollar also continues to gain market share as customers respond favorably to the good values offered in a wider selection of low priced, basic consumable merchandise in departments such as food, household chemicals and paper products.  The Company made room for additional hardlines consumables by reducing space allocated to shoes in a program that was completed in all stores in January 2002.
 
     As previously reported the Company's plan is for sales in existing stores in the five week period ending October 5, 2002, to increase in the 3% to 5% range.  Through October 1, sales in existing stores are within this range.  The Company's plan for the first quarter ending November 30, 2002, and the fiscal year ending August 30, 2003, also is for sales in existing stores to increase in the 3% to 5% range.
     Assuming existing store sales increases in the 3% to 5% range, and with additional sales being generated by the opening of 575 new stores, the Company's plan is for net income per share of Common Stock to increase approximately 14% to 16% in fiscal 2003.  The comparison in the first quarter of the current fiscal year is more difficult due to Thanksgiving falling later this year (November 28 versus November 22).  As a result, there will be fewer shopping days after Thanksgiving in the first quarter this year.  The Company's plan also assumes that the gross profit margin as a percent to sales this fiscal year will be at approximately the same level as last fiscal year and that expenses as a percent to sales will also remain relatively consistent with last fiscal year.
 
     Mr. Levine concluded that:  "Although the economy has not been strong for several years, our Company has performed well reporting quarter over quarter sales and earnings increases.  Family Dollar had no long-term or short-term debt at the end of the fiscal year and our financial strength permits us to continue to make substantial investments in the Company's future.  In fiscal 2003 with expected capital expenditures of about $225 million, we plan to open approximately 575 new stores, expand or relocate 150 stores, open a seventh distribution center and continue to implement new supply chain systems.  As was the case last fiscal year, we expect the difficult retail sales environment to continue and are planning seasonal and fashion purchases conservatively and closely monitoring expenses.  Based on our proven record of performance in tough economic times and our single-minded focus on providing customers with good values in low priced, basic merchandise, we are confident Family Dollar will continue to report strong sales, gain market share and increase profitability."
 
     Mr. Leon Levine, age 65, has announced that he plans to retire as Chairman of the Board when his term expires at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in January 2003.  Mr. Levine stated that Family Dollar has a strong management team and the orderly transition that included the promotion of his son, Howard R. Levine, to President of the Company in April 1997, and Chief Executive Officer in August 1998, is now complete.  Howard R. Levine 
stated that:  "Leon Levine is one of the giants of the retail discount industry.  In the 43 years since he opened the first Family Dollar store in 1959, he has been our leader in building one of the fastest growing and most profitable retail chains in the country.  After his retirement, he will hold the honorary title of "Founder and Chairman Emeritus"."  The fourth quarter results include a one-time charge of $1.3 million representing the present value of certain benefits beginning after Mr. Levine's retirement.  The benefits include continuation of medical and liability insurance coverage, ongoing use of office space, and up to 30 hours per year use of Company aircraft.  There is no consulting agreement or any other supplemental retirement or pension plan, other than a 401(k) Plan under which the Company's contributions to Mr. Levine's account, averaging less than $3,000 per year in recent years, will cease upon his retirement.
 
 
     Family Dollar will host a conference call today, October 2, 2002, at 10:00 A.M. ET to discuss the financial results.  If you wish to listen, please call (334) 420-1231 at least 10 minutes before the call is scheduled to begin. A replay of the call will be available from about 1:00 P.M. ET, October 2, 2002, until 6:00 P.M. ET, October 3, 2002, by calling 703-925-2474 and entering the access code 2317757. There also will be a live webcast of the conference call that can be accessed at: http://www.familydollar.com/investors.asp or by going to http://www.familydollar.com and clicking on the section and then clicking on the webcast icon.  A replay of the webcast will be available at the same address after 2:00 P.M. ET, October 2, 2002.
Investors
 
    
Certain statements contained in this press release which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements address the Company's plans and activities or events which the Company expects will or may occur in the future.  A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.  Such factors include, but are not limited to, competitive factors and pricing pressures, general economic conditions, the impact of acts of war or terrorism, changes in consumer demand and product mix, unusual weather that may temporarily impact sales, inflation, merchandise supply constraints, general transportation delays or interruptions, dependence on imports, changes in currency exchange rates, tariffs, quotas, and freight rates, availability of real estate, costs and delays associated with building, opening and operating new distribution facilities and stores, costs and potential problems associated with the implementation of new systems and technology, including supply chain systems and electronic commerce, changes in energy prices and the impact on consumer spending and the Company's costs, and the effects of legislation on wage levels and entitlement programs.  Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made are qualified by these and other factors, risks and uncertainties.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release. The Company does not undertake to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that projected results expressed or implied in such statements will not be realized.
The figures are as follows
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 


