FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20040527113010.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 5.  Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Effective as of May 27, 2004, Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") entered into the following agreements, each of which provide for the approximate one year extension and amendment of the respective underlying Credit Agreements, as described below.
 
Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement between the Company and Family Dollar, Inc., as Borrower, and Bank of America, N.A.
(a)
         
Second Amendment to Credit Agreement between the Company and Family Dollar, Inc., as Borrower, and Wachovia Bank, National Association.
(b)
        
 
The foregoing agreements are filed herewith as Exhibits 10 (a) and 10 (b), respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. Reference is made to the respective agreements for a complete statement of the terms thereof.
 
Item 7.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10(a)
 
THIS SECOND AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of May 27, 2004, is entered into by and between FAMILY DOLLAR STORES, INC., a Delaware corporation (""), FAMILY DOLLAR, INC., a North Carolina corporation ("") (FDSI and FDI are collectively referred to herein as the "") and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. (the "").
Amendment
FDSI
FDI
Borrower
Bank
 
 
The Borrower and the Bank are parties to an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 31, 2001 (as amended prior to the date hereof, the "") pursuant to which the Bank has extended certain credit facilities to the Borrower.
Credit Agreement
 
The Borrower has requested the Bank to agree to extensions of the Tranche A Termination Date and the Tranche B Termination Date.
 
The Bank is willing to amend the Credit Agreement to extend the Tranche A Termination Date and the Tranche B Termination Date, subject to the terms and conditions of this Amendment.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, for valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
                                      
Defined Terms
.  Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings, if any, assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
 
2.
                                      
Amendments to Credit Agreement
.
 
(a)
                                 
Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is amended by amending the following definitions to read in their entirety as follows:
 
"" means May 31, 2009, or such earlier date as the Tranche A Commitment is terminated pursuant to this Agreement.
(1)
                                 
Tranche A Termination Date
 
"" means May 26, 2005, or such earlier date as the Tranche B Commitment is terminated pursuant to this Agreement.
(2)
                                 
Tranche B Termination Date
 
Section 2.01(c) of the Credit Agreement is amended by deleting such section in its entirety.
(b)
                                
 
Section 2.03(c) of the Credit Agreement is amended by deleting such section in its entirety.
(c)
                                 
Section 2.10 of the Credit Agreement is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
(d)
                                
 
2.10.  .  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a facility fee (the "") in an amount equal to 0.0400% per annum on the amount of the Commitments (as reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.12 hereof), payable quarterly in arrears on each Quarterly Date and on the Tranche A Termination Date.  The Facility Fee shall not accrue (a) on the Tranche A Commitment after the Tranche A Termination Date, or (b) on the Tranche B Commitment after the Tranche B Termination Date.
Facility Fee
Facility Fee
 
3.
                                      
Representations and Warranties
.  The Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Bank as follows:
 
(a)
                                 
No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
 
(b)
                                
The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and other action and do not and will not require any registration with, consent or approval of, notice to or action by, any Person (including any Governmental Authority) in order to be effective and enforceable.  The Credit Agreement as amended by this Amendment constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as limited by applicable Debtor Relief Laws and general principles of equity, without defense, counterclaim or offset.
 
(c)
                                 
All representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in the Credit Agreement are true and correct on and as of the date hereof.
 
4.
                                      
Effective Date
.  This Amendment will become effective as of May 27, 2004 (the ""), that the Bank has received from the Borrower a duly executed original (or, if elected by the Bank, an executed facsimile copy) of this Amendment, together with a duly executed Guarantor Acknowledgment and Consent in the form attached hereto (the "").
Effective Date
provided
Consent
 
5.
                                      
Reservation of Rights
.  The Borrower acknowledges and agrees that the execution and delivery by the Bank of this Amendment shall not be deemed to create a course of dealing or otherwise obligate the Bank to enter into amendments under the same, similar or any other circumstances in the future.
 
6.
                                      
Miscellaneous
.
 
(a)
                                 
Except as herein expressly amended, all terms, covenants and provisions of the Credit Agreement are and shall remain in full force and effect and all references therein and in the other Loan Documents to such Credit Agreement shall henceforth refer to the Credit Agreement as amended by this Amendment.  This Amendment shall be deemed incorporated into, and a part of, the Credit Agreement.  This Amendment is a Loan Document.
(b)
                                
This Amendment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and to the Credit Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.  No third party beneficiaries are intended in connection with this Amendment.
 
(c)
                                 
This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of North Carolina.
 
(d)
                                
This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one and the same instrument.  Each of the parties hereto understands and agrees that this document (and any other document required herein) may be delivered by any party thereto either in the form of an executed original or an executed original sent by facsimile transmission to be followed promptly by mailing of a hard copy original, and that receipt by the Bank or the Borrower of a facsimile transmitted document purportedly bearing the signature of the Bank or the Borrower, as applicable, shall bind the Bank or the Borrower with the same force and effect as the delivery of a hard copy original.  Any failure by the Bank or the Borrower to receive the hard copy executed original of such document shall not diminish the binding effect of receipt of the facsimile transmitted executed original of such document which hard copy original was not received by the Bank or the Borrower, as applicable.
 
(e)
                                 
This Amendment, together with the Credit Agreement, contains the entire and exclusive agreement of the parties hereto with reference to the matters discussed herein and therein.  This Amendment supersedes all prior drafts and communications with respect thereto.  This Amendment may not be amended except in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.04 of the Credit Agreement.
 
(f)
                                   
If any term or provision of this Amendment shall be deemed prohibited by or invalid under any applicable law, such provision shall be invalidated without affecting the remaining provisions of this Amendment or the Credit Agreement, respectively.
 
.  THIS WRITTEN AMENDMENT, THE CREDIT AGREEMENT, THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, AND THE DOCUMENTS EXECUTED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES.  THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES.
(g)
                                
Notice of Final Agreement
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Amendment as of the date first above written.
 
Each of the undersigned Guarantors, each a guarantor with respect to the Borrower's obligations under the Credit Agreement, hereby (i) acknowledges and consents to the terms of and the execution, delivery and performance of the foregoing Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "") (without implying the need for any such acknowledgement or consent), and (ii) represents and warrants to the Bank that, both before and after giving effect to the Amendment, the Guaranty to which each of the undersigned is a party remains in full force and effect as an enforceable obligation of such Guarantor, in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable Debtor Relief Laws and general principles of equity, without defense, counterclaim or offset, that nothing herein shall prevent the assertion of any such claim by separate suit or compulsory counterclaim, and that it is in compliance with all of its covenants contained therein.  Each Guarantor further represents that the execution, delivery and performance by such Person of this Acknowledgement and Consent have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and other action and do not and will not require any registration with, consent or approval of, notice to or action by, any Person (including any Governmental Authority) in order to be effective and enforceable.  Each Guarantor remakes as of the Effective Date (as defined in the Amendment) all of the representations and warranties made by it pursuant to the Guaranty to which the undersigned is a party.  Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the respective meanings defined in the Credit Agreement (as defined in the Amendment).
Amendment
provided
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has executed this Acknowledgement and Consent by its duly authorized officers as of this 27th day of May, 2004.
 

Exhibit 10(b)
THIS SECOND AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT (the "Amendment") is made as of the 27 day of May, 2004 by and among FAMILY DOLLAR STORES, INC., FAMILY DOLLAR, INC. (collectively, the "Borrowers"), and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (formerly known as First Union National Bank) (the "Bank").
th
 
 
The Borrowers and the Bank entered into a certain Credit Agreement dated as of August 7, 2001 (as amended, modified or supplemented prior to the date hereof, including by (a) letter amendment dated May 1, 2002, and (b) the First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of May 29, 2003, the "Credit Agreement").  Capitalized terms used in this Amendment which are not otherwise defined in this Amendment shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
 
The Borrowers and the Bank wish to amend the Credit Agreement in certain respects, as hereinafter provided.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the Recitals and the mutual promises contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Borrowers and the Bank, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
 
.  The Recitals are incorporated herein by reference and shall be deemed to be a part of this Amendment.
SECTION 1.
                 
Recitals
 
.  The Credit Agreement is hereby amended as set forth in this
SECTION 2.
                 
Amendments to the Credit Agreement
Section 2.
 
.
SECTION 2.1
           
Amendments to Definitions
 
Each of the following definitions contained in Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety:
A.
             
 
"First Anniversary";
(i)
                                    
"Second Anniversary";
(ii)
                                 
"Term Loan";
(iii)
                              
"Term Loan Conversion Date"; and
(iv)
                             
"Term Note"
(v)
                                
 
Each of the following definitions contained in Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated it in its entirety as set forth below:
B.
               
 
" means (i) in the case of Tranche A Loans, the Tranche A Termination Date, and (ii) in the case of Tranche B Loans, the Tranche B Termination Date."
Maturity Date'
 
"' means the Tranche A Note and the Tranche B Note."
Notes
 
" means the obligation of the Bank to make Tranche A Loans hereunder in an aggregate principal amount up to but not exceeding Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000.00), as the same may be reduced or terminated pursuant to Section 2.12."
Tranche A Commitment'
"' means May 31, 2009, or such earlier date as the Tranche A Commitment is terminated pursuant to this Agreement."
Tranche A Termination Date
 
" means May 26, 2005, or such earlier date as the Tranche B Commitment is terminated pursuant to this Agreement."
Tranche B Termination Date'
 
.
SECTION 2.2
                                
Amendment of Other Sections
 
A.  Section 1.03 is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "Term Loan" in the second sentence thereof.
 
B.  Section 2.01(c) is hereby deleted in its entirety.
 
C.  Section 2.02(c) is hereby deleted in its entirety.
 
D. Section 2.03(c)(i) is hereby deleted in its entirety.
 
E.  Section 2.04(b) is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"[DELIBERATELY OMITTED]."
 
F.  Section 2.04(d)(iii) is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"[DELIBERATELY OMITTED];"
 
G.  Section 2.04(d)(iv) is hereby amended by deleting therefrom the phrase  "any Term Loan or".
 
H.  Section 2.06 shall be amended by deleting therefrom the following language:
 
"Prepayments of any Term Loan shall, at the election of the Borrower (with notice to the Bank), be applied either (i) to installments of principal of such Loan in inverse order of maturity, or (ii) to the then remaining installments of principal of such Loan pro rata.  Principal of the Term Loans paid or prepaid may not be reborrowed."
 
I.   Section 2.10 shall be amended as follows:
 
by deleting the reference to "0.0575%" and replacing it with "0.0400%"; and
(i)
                                    
by deleting the phrase "Section 2.01(c) and/or".
(ii)
                                 
 
J. Section 2.14 is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
.  No later than February 28 of each year during the tenor of the Tranche A Commitment, the Borrower may submit a written request to the Bank for an extension of the Tranche A Termination Date for an additional period of one year.  Within thirty (30) days after receipt by the Bank of such notice, the Bank shall give written notice to the Borrower of its agreement or refusal to extend the Tranche A Termination Date; , , that any failure by the Bank to respond to
"SECTION 2.14.
          
Extension of Tranche A Termination Date
provided
however
any such request in a timely manner shall be deemed to be a refusal by the Bank to extend the Tranche A Termination Date."
 
K. Section 4.03 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
 
.  The effectiveness of this Amendment and the obligations of the Bank hereunder are subject to the satisfaction of the following condition:
SECTION 3.
                    
Conditions to Effectiveness
 
the Bank shall have received from each of the Borrowers and each of the Guarantors a counterpart hereof signed by such party.
(a)
                
 
.  Except for the amendments set forth above, the text of the Credit Agreement and each of the other Loan Documents, including, without limitation, the Guaranty, shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.  This Amendment is not intended to effect, nor shall it be construed as, a novation.  The Credit Agreement and this Amendment shall be construed together as a single agreement.  Nothing herein contained shall waive, annul, vary or affect any provision, condition, covenant or agreement contained in the Credit Agreement, except as herein amended, nor affect or impair any rights, powers or remedies under the Credit Agreement as hereby amended.  The Borrowers promise and agree to perform all of the requirements, conditions, agreement and obligations under the terms of the Credit Agreement, as hereby amended, the Credit Agreement, as amended, being hereby ratified and affirmed.  The Borrowers hereby expressly agree that the Credit Agreement, as amended, and each of the other Loan Documents, is in full force and effect.
SECTION 4.
                    
No Other Amendment
 
.  Each of the Borrowers hereby represents and warrants to the Bank as follows:
SECTION 5.
                    
Representations and Warranties
 
No Default or Event of Default under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document has occurred and is continuing unwaived by the Bank on the date hereof;
(a)
         
 
The representations and warranties of the Borrowers set forth in Article V of the Credit Agreement (as amended hereby) shall be true on and as of the date hereof.
(b)
        
 
Each of the Borrowers has the power and authority to enter into this Amendment and to do all acts and things as are required or contemplated hereunder, or thereunder, to be done, observed and performed by it.
(c)
         
 
This Amendment has been duly authorized, validly executed and delivered by one or more authorized officers of each Borrower and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each of the Borrowers, enforceable against each of the Borrowers in accordance with its terms, provided that such enforceability is subject to applicable Debtor Relief Laws and general principles of equity.
(d)
        
 
The execution and delivery of this Amendment and the performance hereunder by each of the Borrowers does not and will not require the consent or approval of any regulatory authority or governmental authority or agency having jurisdiction over any Borrower, nor be in contravention of or in conflict with the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of any Borrower, or the provision of any statute, or any judgement, order, indenture, instrument, agreement or undertaking, to which any Borrower is party or by which the assets or properties of any Borrower are or may become bound.
(e)
         
.  This Amendment may be executed in multiple counterparts each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which, taken together, shall constitute one and the same agreement.
SECTION 6.
                    
Counterparts
 
  This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina, without reference to the conflicts or choice of law principles thereof.
SECTION 7.
                    
Governing Law.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed, under seal, by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 


