FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20040930094950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4c under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On September 30, 2004, Family Dollar Stores, Inc. issued a news release with respect to the reporting of sales and earnings for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended August 28, 2004, plans for the fiscal year ending August 27, 2005, and other matters relating to the Company's operations and financial condition.  A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01   Other Events
 
On August 17, 2004, the Board of Directors of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") adopted an amendment to the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 1989 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") providing that the governing committee for the administration of the Plan will be the Compensation Committee of the Board.  Previously, the Stock Option Committee of the Board administered the
Plan.  A copy of the Plan, as amended, is attached hereto as Exhibit 10(i) and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) 
Exhibits
 
Family Dollar Stores, Inc.
10 (i)
                     
1989 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan,
As Amended August 17, 2004
 
News Release dated September 30, 2004
99
                                   
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 10(i)
 
Amended as of
August 17, 2004
 
1.  .  The purpose of the 1989 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. is to encourage ownership of a stock interest in Family Dollar Stores, Inc. by certain officers and other key employees of the Company (as such term is defined below) as an added incentive to remain in the employ of the Company and to increase their efforts on its behalf, and in order for the Company to retain and attract persons of competence, and to gain for the organization the advantages inherent in key employees having a sense of proprietorship.
Purpose
 
The term "subsidiary" as used herein, shall mean any business entity in which Family Dollar Stores, Inc. owns or controls, directly or indirectly (through one or more business entities), 50 percent or more of the voting, equity or other ownership interest.  The term "Company", as used herein, shall include Family Dollar Stores, Inc. and any present or future subsidiary thereof.
 
2.  .  The shares of stock which may be issued and sold under the Plan shall not, except as such number may be adjusted pursuant to Article 10 hereof, exceed 7,374,010 shares of Common Stock of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. which may be either authorized and unissued shares or issued shares reacquired by Family Dollar Stores, Inc.  Any shares subjected to an option under the Plan which terminates, is cancelled or expires for any reason unexercised as to such shares may again be subjected to an option under the Plan notwithstanding the above limitation.
The Stock
 
3.  .  Options shall be granted only to officers and other key employees (including those who are also directors) who, at the time of the grant of the option, (a) are employees of the Company and (b) are primarily responsible for the management and growth of the Company or who otherwise materially contribute to the conduct and direction of its business and affairs.  A person eligible to receive an option under the Plan is hereinafter sometimes referred to as an "employee" and a person to who an option is granted hereunder is hereinafter sometimes referred to as an "optionee."
Eligibility
 
4.  .  The Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Board") shall determine the employees who are to be granted options under the Plan, the number of shares subject to each option and the consideration to the Company for the granting of options under the Plan, as well as the conditions, if any, which it may deem appropriate to insure that such consideration will be received by, or will accrue to, the Company.  In the discretion of the Committee, such consideration need not be the same but may vary for options granted under the Plan at the same time or from time to time.
Grant of Options
The Committee may grant more than one option to an employee during the life of the plan and such option may be in addition to, or in substitution for, an option or options, previously granted.  The maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. subject to options which may be granted under the Plan to any optionee during any twelve-month period is 450,000.  No options shall be granted under the Plan after November 30, 2008.
 
Each option granted pursuant to the Plan shall be evidenced by a written option agreement between Family Dollar Stores, Inc. and the optionee which shall contain such provisions, terms and conditions (which need not be the same for all options) as the Committee shall in its discretion determine to be appropriate and within the contemplation of the Plan.  Each option agreement shall provide that the option granted thereby will not be treated as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
5.    (a) The price or prices per share for shares of Common Stock of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. to be sold pursuant to an option shall be such as shall be fixed by the Committee, but not less in any case than 100 percent of the fair market value per share for such stock on the date of the granting of the option, subject to adjustment as provided in Article 10 hereof.
Option Price.
 
For the purpose hereof, the term "fair market value" per share shall mean the mean between the average high bid and low asked prices quoted by the National Quotations Bureau Inc. for the over-the-counter market on the date of the grant of such option or, if no bid and asked prices are quoted on such day, then on the next preceding day on which there were such quotations, or if such stock is listed on a national securities exchange, then the average of the highest price and the lowest price at which the Common Stock shall have been sold regular way on the national securities exchange on the date of the grant of such option or, if no sales occur on such day, then on the next preceding day on which there were such sales of Common Stock or, if any time the Common Stock shall not be quoted by the National Quotations Bureau Inc. for the over-the-counter market and the Common Stock shall not be listed on any national securities exchange, the Committee shall determine the fair value on the basis of available prices for such stock or in such manner as the Board may deem reasonable.
 
(b)  For the purposes of Articles 5 and 6 hereof, the date of the granting of an option under the Plan shall be the date fixed by the Committee as the date for such option for the employee who is to be the recipient thereof.
 
6.
              
Period of Option and Certain Limitations on Right to Exercise.
 
Options will be exercisable over the Option Period, which, in the case of each option, shall be a period of not more than five years from the date of the grant of such option, as follows:
 
(i)  at any time during the third year of the Option Period the optionee may purchase up to 40 percent of the total number of shares to which his option relates (adjusted, if a fraction of a share would otherwise result thereby, to the nearest full number of shares);
(ii)  at any time during the Option Period after the end of the third year the optionee may purchase on a cumulative basis up to 70 percent of the total number of shares to which his option relates (adjusted, if a fraction of a share would otherwise result thereby, to the nearest full number of shares); and
 
(iii)  at any time during the Option Period after the end of the fourth year the optionee may purchase on a cumulative basis up to 100 percent of the total number of shares to which his option relates; provided, however, that except as provided in Articles 8 and 9 hereof, no option may be exercised unless the optionee is then in the employ of the Company and shall have been continuously so employed since the date of the grant of his option.  Absence on leave approved by the Committee shall not be considered an interruption of employment for any purpose of the Plan.  Family Dollar Stores, Inc. may, if it or its counsel shall deem it necessary or desirable for any reason, require the optionee (or the purchaser acting under Article 9 hereof) to represent in writing to Family Dollar Stores, Inc. at the time of the exercise of such option that it is his then intention to acquire the shares of Common Stock as to which his option is then being exercised for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof.
 
7.    No option granted under the Plan to an employee shall be transferable by him otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and such option shall be exercisable, during his lifetime, only by him or by his guardian or legal representative.
Non-Transferability of Option.
 
8.    If an optionee shall cease to be employed by the Company for any reason (other than death or discharge for cause), he may, but only within three months after the date he ceases to be an employee of the Company (and in no event after the expiration of the Option Period), exercise his option to the extent that he was entitled to exercise it at the date of such cessation.  The Plan shall not confer upon any optionee any right with respect to continuation of employment by the Company, nor shall it interfere in any way with his right or the Company's right to terminate his employment at any time.  Notwithstanding any of the provisions hereinabove set forth, in the event that any optionee shall be discharged for cause, he shall forthwith forfeit all rights under any options granted to him under the Plan.  "Cause" shall be deemed to include, but not be limited to, dishonesty, the proved commission of crime, disclosure of the Company's affairs to competitors or other unfaithfulness to the interests of the Company, continued absence except on account of the illness or disability, or gross insubordination.
Termination of Employment.
 
9.    If an optionee dies while in the employ of the Company, or within three months after the date he ceases to be an employee of the Company (other than by reason of discharge for cause), the option theretofore granted to him shall be exercisable by the estate of the optionee, or by a person who acquired the right to exercise such option by bequest or inheritance or by reason of the death of the optionee, but only within a period of fifteen calendar months next succeeding such death (and in no event after expiration of the Option Period), and then only if and to the extent that he was entitled to exercise it at the date of his death, except as the number of shares may be adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 hereof.
Death of Optionee.
10.
            
Stock Adjustments.
 
(a)  In the event of a recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, reclassification, or merger, consolidation, or reorganization in which the Company is the surviving corporation, or any other change in the corporate structure or Common Stock of the Company, the Committee shall make such adjustments, if any, proportionate to such change, as it may deem appropriate in the number of shares authorized by the Plan, in the number of shares covered by the options granted, and in the option price.
 
(b)  In the event of dissolution or liquidation of the Company, or a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with one or more corporations in which the Company is not the surviving corporation, or a sale of substantially all the property or more than eighty percent (80%) of the then outstanding stock of the Company to another corporation, the Plan shall terminate and any option heretofore granted pursuant to the Plan shall terminate unless provision be made in writing in connection with such transaction for the continuance of the Plan and/or for the assumption of options theretofore granted, or the substitution for such options of new options covering the stock of a successor employer corporation, or a parent or subsidiary thereof, with appropriate adjustments as to the number and kind of shares and prices, in which event the Plan and options theretofore granted shall continue in the manner and under the terms so provided.
 
(c)  Adjustments under Article 10 hereof shall be made by the Committee whose determination as to what adjustments shall be made, and the extent thereof, shall be final, binding and conclusive.  No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued pursuant to any such adjustment, and any fraction resulting from any such adjustment shall be eliminated in each case by rounding downward to the nearest whole share or unit.
 
11.    The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  The Committee shall consist of two or more members of the Board who are appointed to the Committee by the Board, and each of whom is an "outside director" as such term is defined in Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and any regulations thereunder.  If any member of the Committee does not meet the qualifications for an "outside director," then that member shall be replaced with another director meeting such qualifications such that the Committee shall always be comprised of at least two persons meeting such qualifications.  The Committee is authorized to establish such rules and regulations for the proper administration of the Plan as it may deem advisable and not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan.  All questions arising under the Plan or under any rule or regulation with respect to the Plan adopted by the Committee, whether such questions involve an interpretation of the Plan or otherwise, shall be decided by the Committee.
Administration of the Plan.
 
12.    Payment for shares purchased shall be made in full at the time of the exercise of the option.  No loan or advance shall be made by the Company for the purpose of financing, in whole or in part, the purchase of optioned shares.  An optionee or his legal representatives shall have none of the rights of a stockholder with respect to shares subject to option until such shares shall be issued upon exercise of the option.
Payment for Shares.
 
13. 
Amendment and Termination of Plan.
 
(a)  The Board may at any time suspend or terminate the Plan.  The Board may also at any time amend or revise the terms of the Plan or any option to be granted thereunder, provided that no such amendment or revision shall affect the determination of officers and directors to participate in the Plan or of the timing, pricing and amount of a grant, all of which determinations and amendments and revisions thereof shall be made by the Committee, and provided further that, without stockholder approval, no such amendment or revision shall:
 
 
(i)  materially increase the benefits accruing to employees under the Plan; or
 
(ii)  increase the number of shares subject to the Plan (except as permitted under the provisions of Article 10 hereof); or
 
(iii)  materially modify the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan.
 
(b)  No amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall, without the consent of the optionee, alter or impair any rights or obligations under any option theretofore granted under the Plan.
 
14.    No shares shall be issued pursuant to the exercise of any option granted under the Plan prior to compliance by Family Dollar Stores, Inc. to the satisfaction of its counsel with any applicable laws.
Compliance with Law and Other Conditions.
 
15.    Each optionee who exercises an option shall agree that no later than the date of such exercise or receipt of shares pursuant thereto he will pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Committee regarding payment of, any federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the transfer to him of such shares of Common Stock.
Withholding of Taxes.
 
16.    The Plan shall become effective December 1, 1988, subject to approval thereof by vote (in person or by proxy) of the holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. entitled to vote at the annual meeting of stockholders on January 19, 1989, called to take action thereon.
Approval by Stockholders.

Exhibit 99
 
CONTACT:
George R. Mahoney, Jr.
Executive Vice President
(704) 814-3252
http://www.familydollar.com
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
 
- Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE: FDO), a discount store chain operating 5,481 stores in 44 states, reported that sales for the fourth quarter ended August 28, 2004, were $1,324.2 million, or 9.6% above sales of $1,208.5 million for the fourth quarter ended August 30, 2003. Net income was $43.0 million, or 9.9% below net income of $47.7 million for the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year, and net income per diluted share decreased to $.26 from $.28.
MATTHEWS, NC, September 30, 2004
 
Sales for the fifty-two weeks in the fiscal year ended August 28, 2004, were $5,281.9 million, or 11.2% above sales of $4,750.2 million for the fifty-two weeks in the fiscal year ended August 30, 2003.  Net income was $262.7 million for fiscal 2004, or 6.1% above net income of $247.5 million for fiscal 2003, and net income per diluted share increased to $1.53 from $1.43.
 
The sales gains in the fourth quarter are attributable to increased sales in existing stores and to sales from new stores opened as part of the Company's store expansion program.  Sales in existing stores increased approximately 0.7% in the fourth quarter ended August 28, 2004, above the comparable period last year, including an increase of approximately 2.9% in sales of hardlines and a decrease of approximately 7.2% in sales of softlines. The customer count, as measured by the number of register transactions in existing stores, was at approximately the same level as in the fourth quarter of the prior year, and the average transaction increased approximately 0.5% to $8.70.
 
Sales in existing stores for comparable fifty-two week periods increased approximately 1.9%. This included an increase of approximately 3.2% in sales of hardlines and a decrease of approximately 2.5% in sales of softlines. In fiscal 2004, the customer count increased approximately 0.7% and the average transaction increased approximately 0.9% to $8.95.
The increase in total sales also is attributable to sales from new stores.  During the fourth quarter ended August 28, 2004, 203 new stores
opened and 6 stores closed.  During the fiscal year, the Company opened 500 stores and closed 61 stores.  At the end of the fiscal year on August 28, 2004, 5,466 stores were operating in 44 states.
 
During the fourth quarter ended August 28, 2004, sales of basic consumable merchandise continued to be satisfactory.  However, sales of more discretionary merchandise, such as hanging apparel and domestics, were significantly below the Company's plan.  This adverse mix shift and higher shrinkage levels resulted in a decrease in the gross profit margin as a percent to sales from 32.9% in the fourth quarter last year to 32.0% in the fourth quarter this year.  With sales below plan for the quarter, expenses as a percent to sales were deleveraged, increasing from 26.7% in the fourth quarter last year to 26.8% in the fourth quarter this year.  The deleverage of expenses was mitigated by the reduction of amounts previously accrued for bonus payments.
 
The gross profit margin as a percent to sales was 33.8% for both the fiscal year ended August 28, 2004, and the prior fiscal year, as lower merchandise markdowns were offset by a shift in the merchandise mix to more lower margin basic consumables and by increased shrinkage and freight costs.  Expenses as a percent to sales increased to 26.0% in the fiscal year ended August 28, 2004, from 25.6% in the prior fiscal year.  The approximate 1.9% increase in sales in existing stores in fiscal 2004 was below the Company's plan, and with continued increases in insurance costs, including workers' compensation, contributed to the deleveraging of expenses.
 
The Company's inventories at the end of fiscal 2004 were approximately 5.5% higher on a per store basis than at the end of fiscal 2003.  The Company accelerated the flow of seasonal merchandise as part of the program to improve store level presentations and sales during the holiday period, and this accounted for approximately two-thirds of the increase.  As a result of conservative planning and the curtailment of some planned purchases, out-of- season apparel inventories at the end of fiscal 2004 were approximately 8% lower on a per store basis than at the end of fiscal 2003.
 
In commenting on fiscal 2004 and the Company's plans for fiscal 2005, Howard R. Levine, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated that:  "The
6.1% increase in net income in fiscal 2004 was achieved in a difficult economic environment for the Company's low to low-middle income customer base. While we did not achieve our targeted net income growth, we did continue to reinvest in the business.  In fiscal 2004, 500 new stores were opened.  Good progress was made in the implementation of the multi-year "Store of the Future" project, including infrastructure investments so that our customers are able to use PIN-based debit cards in our stores.  We also completed the strategic assessment, concept testing and development of implementation plans for urban and cooler programs that will be key initiatives in fiscal 2005.  The Company maintained its strong financial position with no debt on the balance sheet.  Cash dividends declared per share of Common Stock increased by 13.8% - the 28 consecutive year of cash dividend increases.  We also repurchased about 5.6 million shares of Common Stock at a cost of about $176.7 million."
th
 
Mr. Levine noted that:  "Family Dollar's financial strength permits us to continue to invest in the Company's future.  In fiscal 2005, our focus will be on initiatives that we believe will be the growth engines that will drive increases in sales and earnings."
 
The four key initiatives in fiscal 2005 are:
 
 - 
      Urban Initiative  Investments being made in process changes, technology and people will improve the operating performance of more than 1,000 high-volume stores in thirty large metropolitan markets.  This initiative is being rolled out in waves, with approximately 250 stores to be impacted in the first quarter.  It incorporates a number of "Store of the Future" components, including an automated hiring process and organizational changes to support a more mobile and flexible workforce.
 
 - 
      "Treasure Hunt" Merchandise  Family Dollar's basic assortment of merchandise is being supplemented by additional opportunistically purchased
 
goods.  These goods are designed to create more excitement in the stores throughout the year, with particular emphasis on the holiday season.  An advertising circular will be distributed in early November 2004 to generate additional sales.
 
 - 
      Coolers  Beginning in January 2005 coolers for perishable food will be installed in selected stores.  By the end of the fiscal year in August 2005, the current plan is to have coolers in approximately 500 stores. The Company also plans to begin implementation by fiscal year-end of new point of sale software to facilitate the acceptance of food stamps in stores with coolers, simplify cashier training and speed up checkout processes.
 - 
      New Stores  The Company will continue its aggressive store opening program.  Current plans are to open about 500 to 560 stores and close 60 to 70 stores, resulting in about 8% to 9% net new store growth and 9% to 10% net square footage growth.  Urban markets will continue to be the focus, with approximately 60% to 65% of the new stores expected to open in urban areas.
 
As these initiatives are implemented, the Company expects that increases in sales in existing stores will accelerate from the 0.7% increase in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 to increases in the 3% to 5% range later in the fiscal year.  As previously reported, the Company's plan is for sales in existing stores in the five week period ending October 2, 2004, to be in a range from approximately the same level to up 2% from the similar period in the prior fiscal year.  Based on sales through September 29, the Company currently expects sales in existing stores to be within this range.
 
Funding of the initiatives will result in additional expenses and, accordingly, the Company's plan is for net income per diluted share of Common Stock to be between $1.59 and $1.63 in fiscal 2005.  With sales increases in existing stores expected to be in the 3% to 5% range in the fourth quarter, the highest increase in net income should be in that quarter.  The most substantial investments are planned to occur in the third quarter and the additional expenses will adversely impact net income in that quarter.
 
Mr. Levine concluded that:  "Fiscal 2004 was a difficult year as the economy was not favorable for Family Dollar's low and low-middle income customer base.  We are hopeful that energy prices will decrease, job creation numbers will increase and the economic health of our customer base will improve.  Those are issues we do not control.  We are addressing issues we do control.  Regardless of the economy, we are convinced that by focusing on the four key initiatives referred to above we will improve our Company's operating performance and position Family Dollar for continued long-term profitable growth."
Family Dollar will host a conference call on Thursday, September 30, 2004, at 10:00 A.M. ET to discuss the financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended August 28, 2004, and certain plans for the fiscal year ending August 27, 2005. If you wish to listen, please call 888-791-5525 for domestic USA calls and 773-756-4619 for international calls at least 10 minutes before the call is scheduled to begin.  A replay of the call will be available from about 1:00 P.M. ET, September 30, 2004, through October 7, 2004, by calling 800-234-2685 for domestic USA calls and 402-220-9688 for international calls.  There also will be a live webcast of the conference call that can be accessed at www.familydollar.com/investors.asp or by clicking on the webcast icon on the "Investors" page at www.familydollar.com   A replay of the webcast will be available at the same address after 2:00 P.M. ET, September 30, 2004.
 
Certain statements
contained in this press release which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements address the Company's plans and activities or events which the Company expects will or may occur in the future.  A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.  Such factors include, but are not limited to, competitive factors and pricing pressures, general economic conditions, the impact of acts of war or terrorism, changes in consumer demand and product mix, unusual weather that may temporarily impact sales, inflation, merchandise supply constraints, general transportation or distribution delays or interruptions, dependence on imports, changes in currency exchange rates, trade restrictions, tariffs, quotas, and freight rates, availability of real estate, costs and delays associated with building, opening and operating new distribution facilities and stores, costs, potential problems and achievement of results associated with the implementation of new programs, systems and technology, including supply chain systems, store technology, cooler installations and urban initiative programs, changes in food and energy prices and their impact on consumer spending and the Company's costs, legal proceedings and claims, changes in shrinkage, changes in health care and other insurance costs, and the effects of legislation and regulations on wage levels and entitlement programs.  Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made are qualified by these and other factors, risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release. The Company does not undertake to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that projected results expressed or implied in such statements will not be realized.
The figures are as follows:
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 


