FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20050805143242.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4c under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.01    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
provided, however, that if Mr. Alexander accepts or begins other employment in any capacity prior to February 3, 2006, any unpaid balance of such severance as of the date of such new employment shall be (1) eliminated if his monthly base salary and all other monthly remuneration and compensation from the new employment exceeds his monthly base salary in effect on August 4, 2005, or (2) reduced to the amount by which his monthly base salary in effect on August 4, 2005 exceeds his monthly base salary and all other monthly remuneration and compensation from the new employment.  Mr. Alexander will receive no additional termination or severance benefits other than those set forth in the Letter Agreement, the Employment Agreement and those benefits general available to all Company employees under various Company plans.
R. David Alexander, Jr. resigned as President and Chief Operating Officer of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") and from all other positions held with the Company and the Company's subsidiaries, effective August 4, 2005.  The details of Mr. Alexander's resignation are set forth in a written letter agreement dated August 2, 2005, between Mr. Alexander and the Company (the "Letter Agreement").  The Letter Agreement reaffirms key provisions of Mr. Alexander's Employment Agreement with the Company dated August 25, 2000 (as amended by an Amendment dated September 2, 2001, as further amended by an Amendment dated September 1, 2002, as further amended by an Amendment dated January 16, 2003, as further amended by an Amendment dated August 31, 2003, as further amended by an Amendment dated August 29, 2004, collectively the "Employment Agreement"), including, among other things, a one year covenant not to engage in competition with the Company for or on behalf of any Competitive Company (as such term is defined in the Employment Agreement).  The Letter Agreement also provides for the payment of Mr. Alexander's regular salary for the 26 week period directly following his resignation, ending February 3, 2006,
On August 2, 2005,
 
A copy of the Letter Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 1.02   Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
The resignation of R. David Alexander, Jr., as described in Item 1.01, terminates the Employment Agreement and all amendments thereto (except for those provisions which expressly survive the termination of the Employment Agreement), effective August 4, 2005.
 
The information set forth under Item 1.01 of this current report on Form 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.02.
 
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
.  Mr. Levine has assumed Mr. Alexander's role as the Company's principal operating officer.
As described in Item 1.01, on August 2, 2005, R. David Alexander, Jr., the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer voluntarily resigned, effective August 4, 2005
 
The information set forth under Item 1.01 of this current report on Form 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
and Exchange Commission on November 29, 2004,
Biographical and other information with respect to Mr. Levine required by Item 5.02(c) of Form 8-K is contained in the Company's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities
and such information is incorporated by reference herein.
 
A copy of the news release announcing these management changes is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.01   Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On August 4, 2005, the Company issued a news release which, among other things (i) reported sales for the four-week period ended July 30, 2005; (ii) revised earnings guidance for the Company's 2005 fiscal year; (iii) announced the realignment of certain key members of management; and (iv) announced a conference call which was held on August 4, 2005 at 10:00 a.m.
 
A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) 
Exhibits
 
10
         
Letter Agreement dated August 2, 2005 by and between Family Dollar Stores, Inc. and R. David Alexander, Jr.
 
99
         
News Release dated August 4, 2005
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 10
 
Via Hand Delivery
 
Mr. David Alexander
Family Dollar Stores, Inc.
10401 Monroe Road
Matthews, NC 28105
 
Re:  Resignation, Effective August 4, 2005
 
Dear David:
 
This letter (this "")confirms your voluntary resignation, effective 5:00 p.m., August 4, 2005 (the ""), from your position as President and Chief Operating Officer of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "").  As a result of your resignation, your employment with the Company and all of the Company's affiliates and subsidiaries in any and all capacities will discontinue as of the Termination Date.  I wish to remind you that your employment with the Company (and terms of your subsequent resignation) are governed by that certain Employment Agreement dated August 25, 2000 between the Company and yourself (collectively, with all amendments thereto, the ""), including without limitation, Sections 4.01, 4.02, 6.01, 6.03, 6.04, 6.05, 6.06 and 7 of the Employment Agreement.
Letter
Termination Date
Company
Employment Agreement
 
Pursuant to Section 6.06 of the Employment Agreement, you acknowledge that you will not discuss your resignation or any other aspect of your employment with any representatives of the media, either directly or indirectly, without the written consent and approval of the Company.  You further agree that you will not discuss the fact or details of your resignation or any other aspect of your employment with anyone other than your personal attorney, the Company's CEO, CFO or General Counsel prior to the date the Company has formally announced your resignation on or around August 4, 2005.  Furthermore, you acknowledge that you are no longer entitled to communicate on behalf of the Company on substantive matters concerning the Company or its securities with securities market professionals under the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation FD.  Following the Termination Date, you agree to comply with all Confidentiality provisions of your Employment Agreement.
 
Pursuant to Section 4.01 of the Employment Agreement, you acknowledge and agree that you will comply with the terms of the covenant not to compete as well as the non-solicitation clause contained in your Employment Agreement.
 
The Company agrees to pay you your regular salary through February 3, 2006, less applicable federal and state withholding taxes and other standard deductions (the ""); provided, however, that should you accept or begin other employment as an employee, consultant or in any other capacity prior to February 3, 2006, any unpaid balance of the Resignation Severance as of the date of such new employment shall be (1) eliminated if your monthly base salary and all other monthly remuneration and compensation from the new
Resignation Severance
employment exceeds your monthly base salary in effect on the Termination Date, or (2) reduced to the amount by which your monthly base salary in effect on the Termination Date exceeds your monthly base salary and all other monthly remuneration and compensation from the new employment.  Moreover, you agree to pursue reasonable, good faith efforts to obtain other employment in a position suitable to your background and experience and to notify the Company within three business days of obtaining other employment during the time in which you are receiving the Resignation Severance.
 
Payments of Resignation Severance will be made in bi-weekly installments, at or about the time the Company distributes its regular bi-weekly payroll checks.  You understand that such payments will be forwarded by first class U.S. Mail addressed to your home address on file with the Company, commencing with the regular Company pay day following the Termination Date.  You recognize and agree that this payment represents a benefit you would not otherwise be entitled to receive under the Employment Agreement.
 
You agree that you will return to the Company on or prior to the Termination Date all Company property, including all keys, identification badges, credit cards, computers, computer disks, Company vehicles, cellular telephones, merchandise, documents, forms, correspondence, data and other materials related to your work.
 
Please note that as a designated Section 16 reporting officer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, you remain subject to the SEC's ongoing reporting requirements for the next six months.  You also remain subject to the Company's mandatory pre-clearance procedures for the sale of stock or the exercise of any options.   Though we will be happy to assist you with SEC compliance, it is ultimately your responsibility to ensure you comply with the SEC's requirements.
 
You acknowledge that the Employment Agreement and this Letter set forth all of the terms of the understanding between the Company and yourself, and neither may be waived, changed or modified orally or by any course of dealing between the Company and yourself, but only by an instrument in writing signed by the party against whom any waiver, change or modification is sought.
 
If any provision herein shall be deemed or declared unenforceable, invalid or void, the same shall not impair any of the other provisions contained herein which shall be enforced in accordance with their respective terms.  The laws of the State of North Carolina shall govern and be applicable to this agreement and any interpretation or construction thereof, and the jurisdiction and venue for any dispute arising hereunder shall be vested in courts sitting in Mecklenburg County, NC.
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 6.02 of the Employment Agreement to the contrary, this Letter shall remain in full force and effect following the Termination Date.
 
You acknowledge that you have had an adequate and reasonable period of time to read, deliberate and consult with counsel regarding this letter.
 
David, it has been a pleasure to work with you, and we appreciate the contributions you have made during your time with the Company.  We wish you the best in the future.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
CONTACT:
Kiley F. Rawlins, CFA
Divisional Vice President
(704) 849-7496
http://www.familydollar.com
 
For Immediate Release
 
FAMILY DOLLAR REPORTS JULY SALES, UPDATES FOURTH QUARTER GUIDANCE, AND
ANNOUNCES MANAGEMENT REALIGNMENT
 
- - Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE: FDO) reported that net sales for the four weeks ended July 30, 2005, increased 5.7% to approximately $418.8 million from $396.3 million for the four weeks ended July 31, 2004.  For the four-week period ended July 30, 2005, compared with the four-week period ended July 31, 2004, comparable store sales decreased approximately 1.6%.  As of July 30, 2005, there were 5,797 stores in operation, including 57 stores that were opened in fiscal July 2005.
MATTHEWS, NC, August 4, 2005
 
 
The Company expects comparable store sales in August to be flat to up 2% which will result in flat comparable store sales for the fourth quarter.  The Company also expects pressure on its gross margin to continue as a result of the ongoing shift of the merchandise mix to more lower-margin basic consumables and higher freight costs.  With comparable store sales below plan and with the projected decline in the gross margin, the Company's current plan is for net income per diluted share of Common Stock in the fourth quarter to be around $0.17, compared to $0.25 in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year.  For the full year, the Company expects net income per diluted share of Common Stock to be around $1.29, compared to $1.50 for the prior fiscal year.
 
Commenting on July sales, Howard Levine, Chairman and CEO said, "In the first and second quarters, our consumable division, which represents more than half of our sales, consistently reported mid-single digit comparable store sales increases.  In March, we made some changes in our consumable area in an effort to improve our markup in these key categories.  Our customers have not responded as favorably as we had expected, and as a result, July consumable sales were approximately flat in comparable stores.  We have reviewed our assortment, and we are now replacing weaker items with stronger, sales-driving brands. These schematic corrections should be completed in stores by the end of August.
 
 During the next year, we plan to install coolers in 2,500 additional stores.  Stores in the Urban Initiative are now reporting sales growth of 4% higher than would have been expected in the absence of this program, which is sufficient to offset the increased costs of the program.  While it is too early to fully measure the favorable impact of the program on shrink results and employee turnover, these benefits are expected to further improve the performance of these stores.  Next year, we will focus on enhancing the process and improving returns before we expand the program beyond the 1,300 stores that will be in the program at the end of September.
In July, consumable sales in comparable stores with coolers increased approximately 7%, reflecting strong customer response to this initiative.
"While we are disappointed with recent results, we continue to believe that investments in our key initiatives will position Family Dollar for future profitable growth," continued Levine.  "We are encouraged by the results of our cooler initiative. 
As previously announced, Robert George will join our team as Executive Vice President  Chief Merchandising Officer.  His 19-year experience with a leading retailer will support our increased efforts to drive higher sales and better inventory returns.  The addition of Robert will also enable me to focus on improving coordination among our operating groups.  To improve communication and create better synergies to support our strategic initiatives, merchandising, supply chain and store operations will all report to me.  In addition, Dorlisa Flur, Senior Vice President  Strategy and Business Development, will assume executive management responsibility for real estate and facility management.  In her new role, Dorlisa will enhance the strategic focus of our real estate investments and will drive continued process improvement in our store opening and facilities management practices.
After much consideration, I have decided to realign our management team to better meet the challenges we now face. 
"
 
"David Alexander, President and Chief Operating Officer, has resigned to pursue other opportunities.  David has been a valued part of our team, and we wish him the best.
 
," concluded Levine.
Our new management alignment will improve our focus and coordination and will ensure that we better leverage our key initiatives
"
Family Dollar will host a conference call today, August 4, 2005, at 10:00 A.M. ET to discuss recent developments.  If you wish to listen, please dial 1-888-809-8969 for domestic USA calls and 1-210-234-0029 for international calls at least 10 minutes before the call is scheduled to begin.  The passcode for the call is "FAMILY DOLLAR."   A replay of the call will be available from 12:00 Noon ET, August 4, 2005, through August 11, 2005, by dialing 1-866-508-6480 for domestic USA calls and 1-203-369-1902 for international calls.
 
There also will be a live webcast of the conference call that can be accessed at http://www.familydollar.com in the "Investors" section.  A replay of the webcast will be available at the same address after 2:00 P.M. ET, August 4, 2005.
With over 5,800 stores in a 44-state area ranging as far northwest as Idaho, northeast to Maine, southeast to Florida, and southwest to Arizona, Family Dollar is one of the fastest growing discount store chains in the United States. Family Dollar has provided value-conscious consumers with competitive prices at neighborhood stores for over forty-five years. Offering a consistent selection of name-brand and good quality merchandise in an attractive and convenient shopping environment, the Company is focused on continuing to meet the needs of shoppers looking for excellent value.
 
Certain statements contained in this press release or in other press releases, public filings, or other written or oral communications made by the Company or our representatives, which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements address the Company's plans, activities or events which the Company expects will or may occur in the future.  These forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of the words "plan," "estimate," "expect," "anticipate," "probably," "should," "project," "intend," "continue," and similar terms and expressions.  Various risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.  Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to:
 
 - 
                 
competitive factors and pricing pressures,
 - 
                 
changes in economic conditions,
 - 
                 
the impact of acts of war or terrorism,
 
 - 
                 
changes in consumer demand and product mix,
 - 
                 
unusual weather that may impact sales,
 - 
                 
the impact of inflation,
 - 
                 
merchandise supply and pricing constraints,
 - 
                 
success of merchandising and marketing programs,
 - 
                 
general transportation or distribution delays or interruptions,
 - 
                 
dependence on imports,
 - 
                 
changes in currency exchange rates, trade restrictions, tariffs, quotas, and freight rates,
 - 
                 
availability of real estate,
 - 
                 
costs and delays associated with building, opening and operating new distribution facilities and stores,
 - 
                 
costs, potential problems and achievement of results associated with the implementation of new programs, systems and technology, including supply chain systems, store technology, cooler installations and urban initiative programs,
 - 
                 
changes in food and energy prices and their impact on consumer spending and the Company's costs,
 - 
                 
adverse impacts associated with legal proceedings and claims,
 - 
                 
changes in shrinkage,
 - 
                 
changes in health care and other insurance costs,
 - 
                 
changes in the Company's ability to attract and retain employees,
 - 
                 
changes in state or federal legislation or regulations, including the effects of legislation and regulations on wage levels and entitlement programs.
 
Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made by the Company in this and other documents or statements are qualified by these and other factors, risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release. The Company does not undertake to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that projected results expressed or implied in such statements will not be realized.
 


