FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20060412172709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K/A CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 11, 2006 Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter) Delaware 1-6807 56-0942963 (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission (I.R.S. Employer of Incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) P.O. Box 1017, 10401 Monroe Road Charlotte, North Carolina 28201-1017 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (704) 847-6961 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. (d) On April 11, 2006, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") increased the number of members of the Board by one and thereafter, appointed Dale C. Pond to fill the resulting vacancy on the Board, effective immediately. The Board considers Mr. Pond to be an independent director under applicable Securities and Exchange Commission and New York Stock Exchange requirements. On April 12, 2006, the Company also issued a press release regarding Mr. Pond's appointment to the Board, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference. As set forth in the shareholder approved Family Dollar 2000 Outside Directors Plan (the "Outside Directors Plan"), as a non-management member of the Company's Board, Mr. Pond will receive a retainer in the form of shares of the Company's common stock having a fair market value of $20,000, subject to a pro-rata reduction to reflect the portion of the Plan Year (as defined in the Outside Directors Plan) prior to the date which Mr. Pond was elected to the Board. Mr. Pond will also receive a fee of $3,500 for each meeting of the Board that he attends and a fee of $750 for each meeting of the Board committees that he attends, upon his appointment to such committee. Board members are also reimbursed for travel and related expenses incurred in attending meetings of the Board or when otherwise engaged in Board business. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Pond and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Pond was selected as a director. Mr. Pond has no direct or indirect material interest in any prior, existing or proposed transaction, or series of transactions with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or management. The Board also approved changes in the Committees of the Board and the appointment of Mr. Pond to Board Committees. As a result of such changes, the Board Committees currently consist of the following members: Audit Committee - Glenn A. Eisenberg (Chair), Edward C. Dolby and Dale C. Pond; Compensation Committee - James G. Martin (Chair), Sharon Allred Decker, Edward C. Dolby and Dale C. Pond; Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee - Mark R. Bernstein (Chair), Sharon Allred Decker and James G. Martin; and Equity Award Committee - Howard R. Levine. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (d) Exhibits -------- 99 - News Release dated April 12, 2006 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. FAMILY DOLLAR STORES, INC. ---------------------------------------------- (Registrant) Date: April 12, 2006 By: /s/ Janet G. Kelley ------------------------------------------ Janet G. Kelley Senior Vice President-General Counsel -2-
Exhibit Index - ------------- Exhibit No. Document Description ----------- -------------------- 99 News Release dated April 12, 2006 -3-

Exhibit 99 Family Dollar Names Dale C. Pond to Board of Directors MATTHEWS, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 12, 2006--Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE: FDO) today announced that it has named Dale C. Pond to its Board of Directors. "With 35 years of experience in retailing, Dale is an excellent addition to our Board of Directors," said Howard Levine, Chairman and CEO. "His expertise in merchandising, marketing and strategy development will support our vision of becoming a more compelling place to shop, work and invest." Prior to his retirement in 2005, Mr. Pond was employed by Lowe's Companies, Inc. for 12 years, where he most recently served as Senior Executive Vice President Merchandising/Marketing. During his tenure with Lowe's, Mr. Pond served on the Executive Management Committee, the Real Estate Committee, the Strategic Planning Committee, and the Board of Directors for Lowe's Educational & Charitable Foundation. Before joining Lowe's in 1993, he held a series of senior management positions at leading retailers and home improvement companies. Mr. Pond earned a Bachelor of Business Administration from Washburn University and completed Stanford University's Graduate School of Business Executive Program. Mr. Pond currently serves on the boards of directors for Bassett Furniture Industries, Inc., a leading manufacturer and marketer of high quality, mid-priced home furnishings, and the Home Safety Council, a non-profit organization dedicated to preventing home-related injuries. The Board considers Mr. Pond to be an independent director under applicable Securities and Exchange Commission and New York Stock Exchange requirements. Mr. Pond's appointment represents an addition to the Family Dollar Board of Directors, bringing the total number of board members to eight, six of whom are independent directors. About Family Dollar Stores, Inc. With more than 6,000 stores in a 44-state area ranging as far northwest as Idaho, northeast to Maine, southeast to Florida, and southwest to Arizona, Family Dollar is one of the fastest growing discount store chains in the United States. Family Dollar has provided value-conscious consumers with competitive prices at neighborhood stores for more than forty-six years. Offering a consistent selection of name-brand and good quality merchandise in an attractive and convenient shopping environment, the Company is focused on continuing to meet the needs of shoppers looking for excellent value. CONTACT: Family Dollar Stores, Inc. Kiley F. Rawlins, CFA, 704-849-7496 http://www.familydollar.com


