FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20060307155852.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01.   Other Events.
 
On March 3, 2006, Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release announcing that a jury in the case of , a federalFair Labor Standards Act collective action, had found in favor of the plaintiffs in such action and awarded damages in the amount of approximately $19.1 million against the Company.  The Company has previously disclosed information with respect to this action in prior filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Morgan, et. al. v. Family Dollar Stores, Inc.
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) 
Exhibits
 
99  News Release dated March 3, 2006
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99
CONTACT:
Kiley F. Rawlins, CFA
Divisional Vice President
Family Dollar Stores
(704) 849-7496
www.familydollar.com
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
Matthews, NC, March 3, 2006  Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE:FDO) announced today that it intends to appeal an adverse jury verdict rendered today in a case in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
 
"We are confident that the federal appeals court will ultimately find in our favor," said Howard Levine, Chairman and CEO.  "Family Dollar Store Managers are critical to the success of our stores.  Our store managers work hard to provide our customers with great values in clean, friendly stores, to hire and coach employees and to drive store profitability.  They deserve to be recognized and rewarded for the important responsibilities they bear, their hard work, and their dedication to our customers.  We believe we are correct in classifying our store managers as salaried managers, and we intend to continue to fight for what we believe is right."
 
Under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), salaried employees are exempt from overtime pay if they meet certain criteria.  Under the regulations in effect prior to August 2004, these criteria included a minimum weekly pay of $250, the primary responsibility for managing a business unit, and the supervision of at least two full-time individuals.  Two other federal courts have found that Family Dollar store manager positions meet and exceed these criteria as has the U.S. Department of Labor.
 
The jury in this particular case found that Family Dollar should have classified a number of its store managers as hourly employees entitled to overtime pay rather than as salaried managers.  Based on this finding, the Court has awarded damages in the amount of approximately $19.1 million, plus an amount to be determined for an award of attorneys' fees to the plaintiffs' counsel.  The court will take under submission the issue of the Company's good faith and could double the damage award.  As a result, the Company currently expects to recognize between $25 million and $45 million, pending the court's decision, as an expense in its second quarter.  The recognition of this expense will not have an impact on cash flow while the Company pursues its appellate rights with respect to this judgment.  During the appellate process the Company will not be required to pay the amount of the judgment.
 
With more than 6,000 stores in a 44-state area ranging as far northwest as Idaho, northeast to Maine, southeast to Florida, and southwest to Arizona, Family Dollar is one of the fastest growing discount store chains in the United States. Family Dollar has provided value-conscious consumers with competitive prices at neighborhood stores for more than forty-six years. Offering a consistent selection of name-brand and good quality merchandise in an attractive and convenient shopping environment, the Company is focused on continuing to meet the needs of shoppers looking for excellent value.
 


