FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20060821152002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
August 17, 2006
Family Dollar Stores, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  
(704) 847-6961
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
              
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
              
 
Item 1.01.      Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
1.
                                      
Modification of Director Compensation.
On August 17, 2006, the Board of Directors of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Board") adopted Directors' Share Awards Guidelines pursuant to the Company's 2006 Incentive Plan and adjusted the compensation arrangements for non-employee members of the Board (the "Directors").  The compensation changes were recommended to the Board by its Compensation Committee (the "Committee"), after the Committee undertook a review of market practices, considered benchmarking information, and received the advice of the Committee's consultant, Hay Group, Inc.  Such compensation will be as follows:
Directors will be paid an annual retainer of $40,000/fiscal year, payable quarterly in arrears, beginning with the Company's 2007 fiscal year;
                             
Directors shall receive an annual grant of Common Stock of the Company with a value of $30,000 pursuant to the Company's 2006 Incentive Plan and in accordance with the terms of the Directors' Share Awards Guidelines, beginning with the Company's 2007 annual shareholder's meeting;
                             
The Chairman of each of the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee and the Compensation Committee shall receive an additional annual retainer of $5,000 and the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board shall receive an additional annual retainer of $10,000, payable quarterly in arrears, beginning with the Company's  2007 fiscal year;
                             
The fee paid to each Director for each meeting of the Board that he or she attends shall be $1,500, and shall be $1,000 for each Committee meeting that he or she attends, except that a Director shall receive $500 for any meeting attended telephonically;
                             
The Lead Director of the Company shall be paid an additional annual retainer of $10,000/fiscal year, payable quarterly in arrears, beginning with the Company's 2007 fiscal year.
                             
Additionally, the Company will reimburse directors for all reasonable expenses incurred by them in connection with attendance at any meeting of the Board or its Committees and for travel and other expenses incurred in connection with their duties as Directors of the Company.
There is no written agreement with respect to compensation payable to any Director.  A copy of the Directors' Share Awards Guidelines is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
2.
                                      
Amendment to Employment Agreements with Howard R. Levine and R. James Kelly.
On August 17, 2006, with the unanimous approval of the independent directors of the Board, upon the recommendation of the Board's Compensation Committee, the Company entered into an amendment to the employment agreement dated August 18, 2005 (the "Levine Agreement') with Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Howard R. Levine, (the "Levine Amendment"), and an amendment to the employment agreement dated August 18, 2005 (the "Kelly Agreement") with newly appointed President and Chief
2
 
Operating Officer R. James Kelly (the "Kelly Amendment," and together with the Levine Amendment, the "Amendments").
The Levine Amendment memorializes the Company's approval of the non-exclusive personal use of the Company's aircraft by Mr. Levine, subject to certain limits and conditions as established by the Board each year.   The Board has presently limited Mr. Levine's personal usage of the Company's aircraft to 70 hours for the 2007 fiscal year.
The Kelly Amendment memorializes the duties assumed by Mr. Kelly in connection with his promotion to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, as further described in Item 5.02.  As a result of his promotion, Mr. Kelly's annual salary has been increased to $600,000 per year, effective immediately.  All other aspects of Mr. Kelly's compensation remain unchanged.
Each of the Amendments provides that the underlying employment agreements shall be interpreted, operated and administered in compliance with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A.
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the terms of the Amendments, and reference is made to the complete text of each Amendment, which in the case of the Levine Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2, and in the case of the Kelly Amendment, is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3.  Reference is also made to the underlying employment agreements, which in the case of the Levine Agreement is available as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 8-K report filed on August 24, 2005, and in the case of the Kelly Agreement is available as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Form 8-K report filed that same day.
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
                 
On August 17, 2006, the Company promoted R. James Kelly to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Kelly, age 59, joined the Company as Vice-Chairman  Chief Financial and Chief Administrative Officer in January 1997.  In his new role, Mr. Kelly will be responsible for overseeing all business operations of the Company, including store operations, merchandising, real estate, supply chain and technology functions.  The Company has commenced a search for a new Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Kelly will continue to serve as Chief Financial Officer until the position is filled.
Biographical and other information with respect to Mr. Kelly required by Item 5.02(c) of Form 8-K is contained in the Company's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 30, 2005, and such information is incorporated by reference herein.
A copy of the news release announcing this management change is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01       Regulation FD Disclosure.
On August 18, 2006, the Company issued a news release announcing that its Board of Directors had authorized an increase in the Company's stock repurchase program to repurchase up to an additional five million shares of the Company's common stock.  The funding for such repurchase program may be derived from either the Company's operating income or outstanding financings.  The purchases may be made in the open market, by block purchase, in private transactions, or otherwise as determined by management.
A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
3
 
Item 9.01.      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) 
Exhibits
10.1  Directors' Share Awards Guidelines
10.2  First Amendment to Employment Agreement dated August 17, 2006, between the Company and Howard R. Levine
10.3  First Amendment to Employment Agreement dated August 17, 2006, between the Company and R. James Kelly
99.1  News Release dated August 21, 2006
99.2  News Release dated August 18, 2006
4
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
5
 
Exhibit Index
 
6

Exhibit 10.1
1.
Purpose
            
Pursuant to the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan(the "Plan"),the Board of Directors has approved and adopted these Directors' Share Awards Guidelines (the "Guidelines") for the purpose of implementing the terms and provisions of the directors' compensation program currently approved by the Board.  These Guidelines are adopted pursuant to relevant provisions of the Plan and are to be interpreted and applied in accordance with the terms and provisions thereof.
 
2.
Stock Awards
            
For each Plan Year, each Director who is not an employee of the Company or any related or subsidiary company on the first day of that Plan Year (an "Eligible Director") shall be granted a "Retainer Award" for the year, which shall be in the form of shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value of $30,000, or such amount as may otherwise be established from time to time by the Board of Directors based on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee.  Except as otherwise provided in the following paragraph, the Retainer Award for any Plan Year shall be made as of the first business day of that Plan Year (the "Award Date" for that Retainer Award), and the Fair Market Value of the Stock so awarded shall be determined as of that date.
                 
If a Director becomes eligible for an award under these Guidelines during a Plan Year, on a date other than the first day of the Plan Year, he or she shall be granted a Retainer Award for the year, which shall be in the form of shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to $30,000, subject to a pro-rata reduction to reflect the portion of the Plan Year prior to the date on which he or she becomes an Eligible Director.  A Director's Retainer Award under this paragraph shall be made on the first business day on which he or she is an Eligible Director (the "Award Date" for that Retainer Award), and the Fair Market Value of the Stock so awarded shall be determined as of that date. If the Retainer Award that would otherwise be made to a Participant as of any Award Date is not a whole number, then the number of shares otherwise awardable shall be increased to the next highest whole number.
                 
 
3.
            
Definitions
Unless otherwise provided herein, capitalized terms used in these Guidelines will have the meaning given such terms in the Plan.  If there is any conflict between these Guidelines and the Plan, the terms and provisions of the Plan shall control.  In addition, for purposes of these Guidelines, the term "Plan Year" shall mean the period (i) beginning on the date on which members of the Board begin their yearly term as Board members following the election of Directors at the Company's annual shareholders' meeting and (ii) ending on the day immediately prior to the one year anniversary of the date of such grant.  The initial Plan Year under these Guidelines shall begin with the Company's annual shareholders' meeting held in January 2007.

Exhibit 10.2
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT is made and entered into effective the 17th day of August, 2006, by and between FAMILY DOLLAR STORES, INC., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "Company"); and HOWARD R. LEVINE (hereinafter referred to as the "Employee");
WHEREAS, the Company and Employee are currently parties to that certain Employment Agreement effective as of August 18, 2005 (the "Employment Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, the Company and Employee further desire to amend such Employment Agreement to ensure compliance with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code");
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the Company and the Employee agree as follows:
The following paragraph 5(c) shall be added to the Employment Agreement:
1.
                 
(c) The Employee shall have the use of the Company's airplane(s) for any and all business related travel.  In addition, in recognition of the personal security, safety and efficiency issues associated with the use of alternative transportation, the Employee shall have the non-exclusive right to use of the Company's airplane(s) for personal travel for himself and/or his family and guests with such limits and/or conditions as may be annually reviewed and established by the Board; provided that the Company shall impute income to the Employee as taxable compensation as required by Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, with respect to such usage and further provided that the Company is under no obligation to increase its number of airplanes or to charter additional airplanes for this purpose.
The following paragraph 12 shall be added to the Employment Agreement:
2.
                 
12.    This Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A.  Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, this Agreement shall be interpreted, operated and administered consistent with this intent.  In that regard, the payment of any amounts under this Agreement that are subject to Code Section 409A in connection with the Executive's termination of employment shall not be made earlier than six (6) months after the Executive's date of termination to the extent required by Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i).
Compliance with Code Section 409A.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement in triplicate, all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.3
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT is made and entered into effective the 17th day of August,  2006, by and between FAMILY DOLLAR STORES, INC., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "Company"); and R. JAMES KELLY (hereinafter referred to as the "Employee");
WHEREAS, the Company and Employee are currently parties to that certain Employment Agreement effective as of August 18, 2005 (the "Employment Agreement");
WHEREAS, the Company and Employee desire to amend such Employment Agreement to reflect changes in the Employee's position with the Company; and
WHEREAS, the Company and Employee further desire to amend such Employment Agreement to ensure compliance with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code");
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the Company and the Employee agree as follows:
Paragraph 3 of the Employment Agreement shall be amended its entirety to read as follows:
1.
                 
3.  .  The Employee shall be employed as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and shall perform such reasonable duties and responsibilities as the Chairman of the Company or Board of Directors of the Company or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company may, from time to time, assign to the Employee.  The Employee agrees to accept this employment and to devote his full time and attention and his best efforts, ability and fidelity to the performance of the duties attaching to such employment.  In addition, the Employee shall serve as a director and officer of the Company and any corporation in the Group, if appropriately elected.  During the period of his employment, the Employee shall not, for remuneration or profit, directly or indirectly, render any service to, or undertake any employment for, any other person, firm or corporation, whether in an advisory or consulting capacity or otherwise, without first obtaining the written consent of the Company.
Duties and Responsibilities
 
The following paragraph 12 shall be added to the Employment Agreement:
2.
                 
12.    This Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A.  Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, this Agreement shall be interpreted, operated and administered consistent with this intent.  In that regard, the payment of any amounts under this Agreement that are subject to Code Section 409A in connection with the Executive's termination of employment shall not be made earlier than six (6) months after the Executive's date of termination to the extent required by Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i).
Compliance with Code Section 409A.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement in triplicate, all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 99.1
CONTACT:
Kiley F. Rawlins, CFA
Divisional Vice President
(704) 849-7496
http://www.familydollar.com
For Immediate Release
 Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE: FDO) today announced that it has promoted R. James Kelly to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Kelly, age 59, joined the Company as Vice-Chairman  Chief Financial and Chief Administrative Officer in January 1997.  In his new role, Mr. Kelly will be responsible for overseeing all business operations of the Company, including store operations, merchandising, real estate, supply chain and technology functions.  The Company also announced a search for a new Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Kelly will continue to serve as Chief Financial Officer until the position is filled.
MATTHEWS, NC, August 21, 2006
"Since joining Family Dollar almost ten years ago, Jim has contributed significantly to the Company's success, providing strong leadership and strategic and operational vision.  His promotion to President and COO underscores the value of his ongoing contributions to our Company.  Jim understands the needs of our customer and knows our management team well.  In his new position, Jim will lead our operations as we continue to focus on delivering better execution and stronger financial returns," said Howard R. Levine, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  "In order for Family Dollar to achieve its significant growth potential, we must continue to develop both our strategy and our management.  This new organizational structure will enable me to focus more on directing our strategic agenda, including the development of our most important asset  our people."
"Family Dollar has an outstanding leadership team, and it is a privilege to work with them as we pursue our mission of providing our customers with a more compelling place to shop, our Associates with a more compelling place to work and our investors with a more compelling place to invest," said Jim Kelly, President and Chief Operating Officer.
About Family Dollar Stores, Inc.
With more than 6,100 stores in a 44-state area ranging northwest to Idaho, northeast to Maine, southeast to Florida, and southwest to Arizona, Family Dollar is one of the fastest growing discount store chains in the United States.  Family Dollar has provided value-conscious consumers with competitive prices at neighborhood stores for more than forty-six years.  Offering a consistent selection of name-brand and good quality merchandise in an attractive and convenient shopping environment, the Company is focused on continuing to meet the needs of shoppers looking for excellent value.

Exhibit 99.2
CONTACT:
Kiley F. Rawlins, CFA
Divisional Vice President
(704) 849-7496
http://www.familydollar.com
For Immediate Release
 Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE: FDO), announced that the Company's Board of Directors has authorized the Company to purchase from time to time, as market conditions warrant, an additional five million shares of the Company's Common Stock.  The purchases could be made in the open market, in private transactions, or otherwise.  The Company intends to finance the stock repurchase with a combination of cash from operations and borrowings.
MATTHEWS, NC, August 18, 2006
This authorization continues the Company's share repurchase program that began in October 2002.  During the current fiscal year ending August 26, 2006, the Company has purchased in the open market 15.4 million shares of the Company's Common Stock at a cost of $367.3 million, leaving 1.1 million shares authorized to be purchased under previous authorizations.
"We continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and that our share repurchase program builds value for shareholders," said Howard Levine, Chairman and CEO.
Family Dollar also announced that the Company's Board of Directors had declared a regular quarterly cash dividend on the Company's Common Stock of $.10-1/2 per share, payable October 13, 2006, to shareholders of record at the close of business on September 15, 2006.
About Family Dollar Stores, Inc.
With more than 6,100 stores in a 44-state area ranging northwest to Idaho, northeast to Maine, southeast to Florida, and southwest to Arizona, Family Dollar is one of the fastest growing discount store chains in the United States.  Family Dollar has provided value-conscious consumers with competitive prices at neighborhood stores for more than forty-six years.  Offering a consistent selection of name-brand and good quality merchandise in an attractive and convenient shopping environment, the Company is focused on continuing to meet the needs of shoppers looking for excellent value.


