FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20060406151001.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 3, 2006 Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter) Delaware 1-6807 56-0942963 (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer of Incorporation) Identification No.) P.O. Box 1017, 10401 Monroe Road Charlotte, North Carolina 28201-1017 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (704) 847-6961 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure. On April 6, 2006, Family Dollar Stores, Inc. issued a news release which reported sales for the five weeks ended April 1, 2006. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 8.01. Other Events. The Commentary to Section 303A.03 of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") Listed Company Manual (the "Manual") requires each listed company to hold regular executive sessions of non-management directors. The Manual further provides that, if one director is chosen to preside at such meetings, the company should disclose in its annual proxy statement the name of the non-management director chosen to preside at such meetings or, alternatively, the procedure by which a presiding director is chosen for each executive session. In the annual proxy statement of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company"), filed on November 30, 2005 in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on January 19, 2006, the Company disclosed that non-management director Mark R. Bernstein serves as the Company's Lead Director. As stated in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are available on the Company's website at www.familydollar.com under the "Investors-Corporate Governance" tab: "The Lead Director will preside over the non-management and independent Board meetings and shall serve as a contact for interested parties to express opinions and concerns to the non-management Directors." On April 3, 2006, the NYSE informally notified the Company that, although the Company disclosed that Mr. Bernstein serves as the Company's Lead Director and that it makes available the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines on the Company's website, the Company did not explicitly state in its most recent annual proxy statement that the Lead Director presides over executive sessions of the non-management members of the Company's Board of Directors and requested that the Company make such disclosure through this filing on Form 8-K. Thus, non-management director Mark R. Bernstein, the Lead Director of the Company, presides over the non-management and independent Board meetings. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (d) Exhibits -------- 99 - News Release dated April 6, 2006 - 2 -
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. FAMILY DOLLAR STORES, INC. ----------------------------------------- (Registrant) Date: April 6, 2006 By: /s/ Janet G. Kelley ------------------------------------- Janet G. Kelley Senior Vice President-General Counsel - 3 -
Exhibit Index - ------------- Exhibit No. Document Description ----------- -------------------- 99 News Release dated April 6, 2006 - 4 -

Exhibit 99 Family Dollar Reports March Sales MATTHEWS, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 6, 2006--Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE: FDO) reported that net sales for the five weeks ended April 1, 2006, increased 7.6% to approximately $594.7 million from $552.7 million for the five weeks ended April 2, 2005. Comparable store sales for the five-week period increased approximately 1.4%. The Company had 6,022 stores as of April 1, 2006, including 23 new stores opened in the fiscal March period. Comparable Comparable Stores Total Store Hardline Softline Sales Sales Sales Sales Sales (millions) Change Change % Change % Change ---------------------------- ------------------ March 2006 $594.7 7.6% 1.4% 2.2% -1.2% Year-to-date $3,841.9 9.2% 2.8% 4.2% -2.4% The Company expects that comparable store sales in the four-week period ending April 29, 2006, will increase 4% to 6% from the similar period in the prior fiscal year, reflecting the shift of Easter from the March reporting period last year to the April reporting period this year. Cautionary Statements Certain statements contained in this press release regarding anticipated comparable store sales in future periods, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements address the Company's plans, activities or events, which the Company expects will or may occur in the future. Various risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to: -- competitive factors and pricing pressures, including energy prices, -- changes in economic conditions, -- the impact of acts of war or terrorism, -- changes in consumer demand and product mix, -- adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may impact sales and/or operations, -- the impact of inflation, -- merchandise supply and pricing constraints, -- success of merchandising and marketing programs, -- general transportation or distribution delays, -- interruptions of and dependence on imports, -- changes in currency exchange rates, trade restrictions, tariffs, quotas, and freight rates, -- delays associated with building, opening and operating new distribution facilities, -- costs, potential problems and achievement of results associated with the implementation of new programs, systems and technology, including supply chain systems, store technology, cooler installations and related food programs, Urban Initiative programs, and real estate expansion goals, -- other operational difficulties, -- the effect of a national campaign against proposed immigration legislation that may disrupt operations and or reduce customer traffic, -- changes in food and energy prices and their impact on consumer spending and the Company's costs, and, -- changes in the Company's ability to attract and retain employees. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made by the Company in this and other documents or statements are qualified by these and other factors, risks and uncertainties, including those set forth under "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release. The Company does not undertake to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that projected results expressed or implied in such statements will not be realized. About Family Dollar Stores, Inc. With more than 6,000 stores in a 44-state area ranging as far northwest as Idaho, northeast to Maine, southeast to Florida, and southwest to Arizona, Family Dollar is one of the fastest growing discount store chains in the United States. Family Dollar has provided value-conscious consumers with competitive prices at neighborhood stores for more than forty-six years. Offering a consistent selection of name-brand and good quality merchandise in an attractive and convenient shopping environment, the Company is focused on continuing to meet the needs of shoppers looking for excellent value. CONTACT: Family Dollar Stores, Inc. Kiley F. Rawlins, CFA Divisional Vice President 704-849-7496 http://www.familydollar.com


