FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20061213174750.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
December 8, 2006
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
 
Family Dollar Stores, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(704) 847-6961
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 1.01.   Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 8, 2006, Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company"), and its wholly owned subsidiary, Family Dollar, Inc. ("FDI"), entered into a letter agreement (the "Letter Agreement") with Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent ("Administrative Agent"), and a syndicate of lenders (together with the Administrative Agent, the "Lenders") party to that certain Credit Agreement, dated August 24, 2006, between the Company, FDI, and the Lenders (the "Credit Agreement").  Pursuant to the Letter Agreement, the Lenders have agreed to extend the delivery date to January 9, 2007 for (i) audited financial statements for the Company's fiscal year ended August 26, 2006, and (ii) the corresponding Officer's Compliance Certificate (as defined in the Credit Agreement), and to waive until January 9, 2007, any Defaults or Events of Default that would otherwise occur under the Credit Agreement by the failure of the Company to deliver such information to the Administrative Agent prior to the required delivery date of December 9, 2006.
As previously announced, the Company has formed a Special Committee of the Board of Directors to investigate the Company's stock option practices.  Because the work of the Special Committee is not complete, the Company is currently unable to complete its audited financial statements (and corresponding Officer's Compliance Certificate) for the fiscal year ended August 26, 2006.
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the terms of the Letter Agreement, and reference is made to the complete text of the Letter Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10 and incorporated herein by reference.  Reference is also made to the underlying Credit Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 10 to the Company's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 28, 2006.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) 
Exhibits
 
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
Exhibit Index
 
4

Exhibit 10
Family Dollar Stores, Inc. Post Office Box 1017 Charlotte, North Carolina 28201-1401 Attention: Mr. R. James Kelly, President and Chief Operating Officer
Delivery of Annual Audited Financial Statements and Officer's Compliance Certificate
Re:
                              
Dear Mr. Kelly:
Reference is hereby made to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of August 24, 2006 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), by and among Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "") and Family Dollar, Inc., a North Carolina corporation ("" and, together with the Company, the ""), the lenders from time to time party thereto (the "") and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as administrative agent for the Lenders (the "").  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Company
FDI
Borrowers
Lenders
Administrative Agent
Pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, the Company is required to deliver audited financial statements to the Administrative Agent as soon as practicable and in any event within one-hundred five (105) days after the end of each Fiscal Year (the "")will be unable to deliver (a) the required audited financial statements for the Fiscal Year ending August 26, 2006 and (b) the corresponding Officer's Compliance Certificate ") on or prior to the Required Delivery Date and has requested that the Administrative Agent and the Lenders extend the time period for delivery of the Outstanding Financial Information.
Section 7.1(b)
Required Delivery Date
.  In addition, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, the Company is required to deliver an Officer's Compliance Certificate in connection with the audited financial statements delivered pursuant to on or prior to the Required Delivery Date.  The Company
Section 7.2
Section 7.1(b)
(collectively, the "
Outstanding Financial Information
Pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereby agree to extend the delivery date of the Outstanding Financial Information to January 9, 2007 and waive any Defaults or Events of Default that would otherwise occur under the Credit Agreement by the failure of the Company to deliver the Outstanding Financial Information on or prior to the Required Delivery Date.
Section 13.2
all parties, their successors and assigns, and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  A facsimile, telecopy or other reproduction of this letter may be executed by one or more parties hereto, and an executed copy of this letter may be delivered by one or more parties hereto by facsimile or similar instantaneous electronic
This letter may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and shall be binding upon
transmission device pursuant to which the signature of or on behalf of such party can be seen, and such execution and delivery shall be considered valid, binding and effective for all purposes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


