FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20061006152558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): 
October 3, 2006
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
Family Dollar Stores, Inc.
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 
(704) 847-6961
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 1.01.    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
1.
              
Adoption of Annual Cash Bonus Award Guidelines.
At its meeting held on October 3, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Compensation Committee") adopted The Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (the "Cash Bonus Award Guidelines").  The Cash Bonus Award Guidelines provide eligible employees of the Company the opportunity to earn annual incentive compensation in the form of a cash bonus equal to a percentage of such employees' base salary (the "Target Bonus"), contingent upon the Company's achievement of pre-tax earnings goals.  The Target Bonus Program pursuant to the Cash Bonus Award Guidelines replaces the Company's prior programs for the payment of annual cash incentive bonuses pursuant to the Incentive Profit Sharing Plan, filed as Exhibit 10(i) to the Company's Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 5, 2004.
Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards
The Committee, which shall administer the Cash Bonus Award Guidelines, will establish the pre-tax earnings goal prior to, or within 90 days after the beginning of each fiscal year.  If the pre-tax earnings goal is exceeded, the Target Bonus amount will increase by 2% for each 1% by which the goal is exceeded, up to a maximum additional bonus of 50%.  If the pre-tax bonus is not achieved, the Target Bonus amount will decrease by 5% for each 1% by which the goal is not achieved, with no bonus being payable if pre-tax earnings are less than 90% of the goal.  Additionally, the Target Bonus may be adjusted to account for individual employee performance ratings.  Further, the total of all awards issued under the Cash Bonus Award Guidelines may not exceed 5% of the net profit realized by the Company during the relevant fiscal year.  In no event will the amount of any cash bonus otherwise payable to any employee exceed $1,000,000.  Payment of any cash bonus is conditioned upon the written certification of the Committee that the performance goals were satisfied.
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the Cash Bonus Award Guidelines, and reference is made to the complete text of the Cash Bonus Award Guidelines which are attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 10.
2.
              
Compensation Arrangement with Named Executive Officers
At its meeting held on October 3, 2006, the Compensation Committee approved annual compensation packages for the Company's executive officers who are expected to be included in the summary compensation table in the Company's proxy statement for the Annual Meeting, and for those officers who were named executive officers as of the filing of the Company's last proxy statement (the "named executive officers"), as follows:
 
2
 
 
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the compensation terms of the above named executive officers and reference is made to the following Company plans with respect to various aspects of the compensation packages awarded to each named executive officer:  (i) Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan, (ii) Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan , (iii) Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, and 10.3, respectively, to the Company's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 25, 2006) and (iv) the Cash Bonus Award Guidelines attached hereto as Exhibit 10.
Guidelines for Long-Term Incentive Performance Share Rights Awards
2006 Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant Program
Reference is also made to (i) the employment agreements between the Company and Messrs. Levine and Kelly, which have been previously filed as Exhibits 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, to the Company's report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 24, 2005 (along with amendments to such agreements, filed as Exhibits 10.2 and 10.3 to the Company's report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 21, 2006), (ii) the Employment Agreement between the Company and Mr. George, filed as Exhibit 10 to the Company's report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 25, 2005, and (iii) the Employment Agreement between the Company and Mr. Gibson, filed as Exhibit 10.32 to the Company's Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 7, 2005.
Item 7.01.   Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 5, 2006, Family Dollar Stores, Inc. issued a news release which reported sales for the five weeks ended September 30, 2006.
A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
3
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) 
Exhibits
The Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan
10   
                   
Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards
News release dated October 5, 2006
99   
                   
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
4
 
Exhibit Index
 
5

Exhibit 10
1.             Purpose
Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") maintains for the benefit of eligible individuals the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan(the "Plan"),which is intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of such individuals upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Company's operation is largely dependent.  These (the "Guidelines") are intended to implement the Plan by providing eligible Associates of the Company an opportunity to participate in the Company's success by earning incentive compensation in the form of a based on the Company's achievement of pre-tax earnings goals and the Associates' contributions to meeting such goals.
Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards
annual
cash bonus
These Guidelines are adopted pursuant to relevant provisions of the Plan and are to be interpreted and applied in accordance with the terms and provisions thereof.  Specifically, these Guidelines provide for the grant of Performance-Based Cash Awards under Article 9 of the Plan and, with respect to Covered Employees, the grant of Qualified Performance-Based Awards under Article 14 of the Plan.  Unless otherwise provided herein, capitalized terms used in these Guidelines will have the meaning given such terms in the Plan.
2.             Scope
The Guidelines cover eligible Associates as described in Section 3 of these Guidelines.  The Guidelines cover the Company's fiscal (not calendar) year that is the 12-month period that generally runs from approximately September to August.  The actual dates for the fiscal year are determined and announced by the Company prior to the beginning of each fiscal year.
3.             Eligibility
Eligibility for participation in the Plan under these Guidelines shall be determined by any of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or their designees) and communicated to department heads.  Additional eligibility requirements are as follows:
An Associate must be classified as a regular, full-time employee for the entire fiscal year or the Associate's entire employment period in the fiscal year if the Associate was hired subsequent to the beginning of the fiscal year.
                 
An Associate must be hired and on the active payroll as a full-time employee as of the first business day after May 31 of the applicable fiscal year in order to participate during that fiscal year.
                 
If an Associate, whose position was previously not identified as eligible for participation in the Plan under these Guidelines and who was eligible to participate in another bonus plan, is promoted to a position eligible to participate in the Plan under these Guidelines during the relevant fiscal year, such Associate will participate in each plan, subject to its conditions, on a prorated basis.  The prorated calculation will be based upon the number of weeks and respective salary in each position.
                 
If an Associate's position is changed during the relevant fiscal year and as a result of that change the bonus percentage applied in his or her individual bonus calculation under these Guidelines is affected, such Associate will participate on a prorated basis at each bonus percentage level based upon the number of weeks and respective salary in each position.
                 
Except as otherwise provided below, an Associate must be on the payroll in a regular, full-time, active status when bonus checks are issued in order to receive payment under these Guidelines.  An Associate on leave of absence, regardless of type, will receive the bonus payment only upon return to regular, full-time, active status; provided, however, that Associates on a Company approved family medical leave or approved military leave will be issued payment at the time bonus checks are issued even if they have not returnedto regular, full-time, active status at that time.
                 
An Associate whose employment with the Company terminates for any reason, other than death or termination of employment due to Disability or Retirement, prior to the issuance of bonus checks will forfeit any bonus such Associate otherwise would have been entitled to receive.
                 
An Associate who dies or terminates employment due to Disability or Retirement after the end of the fiscal year but before the issuance of bonus checks will not forfeit the bonus which the Associate would have otherwise been entitled to receive.
                 
An Associate who dies or terminates employment due to Disability during a fiscal year will participate on a prorated basis in the bonus program based upon the number of weeks of employment with the Company during such fiscal year and based upon an assumed performance rating of Satisfactory.
                 
An Associate who terminates employment due to Retirement during a fiscal year will participate on a prorated basis in the bonus program based upon the number of weeks of employment with the Company during such fiscal year; provided that the Associate's term of employment is at least one-half of the fiscal year.  An Associate who terminates employment due to Retirement in the first half of the
                 
fiscal year will not receive any bonus amounts pursuant to these Guidelines for such fiscal year.
These Guidelines do not in any manner restrict the right of the Company or the Associate to terminate employment at any time, for any reason, with or without cause.
                 
An Associate otherwise meeting all of the eligibility requirements of these Guidelines, but whose performance rating for the fiscal year is at the Unsatisfactory/Does Not Meet Expectations level, will not participate in the Plan under these Guidelines or be eligible for bonus for that fiscal year.
                 
4.
Target Bonus Amount and Adjustments for Performance
                                     
The target bonus amount for an Associate under these Guidelines equals a percentage of the Associate's base compensation received in the relevant fiscal year, generally ranging from 10% to 100%.  (See above for changes in the Associate's position during the fiscal year.)  The applicable percentage for an Associate will be established by Human Resources and communicated to department heads.  The actual bonus amount for the fiscal year, if any, will be determined as a percentage of the target bonus amount depending on Company and individual performance as follows:
A.
                                  
Company pre-tax earnings vs.  Target
The Board of Directors of the Company determines prior to, or within 90 days after the beginning of, each fiscal year a pre-tax earnings goal for the fiscal year.
                 
In addition, under relevant provisions of the Plan, the pre-tax earnings goal for the relevant fiscal year may be further adjusted to reflect extraordinary events or circumstances affecting the Company or its business, which render such goal unsuitable.
                 
Achievement of the pre-tax earnings goal determines the first part of the bonus calculation under these Guidelines.  Achievement at the 100% level would provide for payment at the Guidelines' "target" payout percentage (a percentage of the Associate's base salary times an established individual performance multiplier  See B below).
                 
If the pre-tax earnings goal is exceeded, the target bonus amount will increase by 2%for each 1% by which the goal is exceeded, to a maximum of 50% additional bonus for exceeding the goal by 25%.
                 
If the pre-tax earnings goal is not achieved, the target bonus amount will decrease by 5% for each 1% by which the goal is not achieved, with no bonus being payable if pre-tax earnings are less than 90% of the goal.
                 
.
B.
                                    
Individual Associate performance level for the fiscal year as determined on a five point rating scale and the incentive grouping / position level of the Associate
A performance multiplier is applied to the target bonus amount for which an individual Associate is eligible, as determined by the Associate's position level.  The multiplier is determined using two factors: individual performance level and incentive level grouping as determined by position.
                 
Six incentive groupings have been established based upon position levels within the Company.  The higher the position level, the more heavily weighted the Company pre-tax earnings performance becomes.  The following ratios are used to establish the multiplier:
                 
1.  Incentive Group 1
80/20 (80% individual performance, 20% Company performance)
2.  Incentive Group 2
60/40 (60% individual performance, 40% Company performance)
3.  Incentive Group 3
40/60 (40% individual performance, 60% Company performance)
4.  Incentive Group 4
20/80 (20% individual performance, 80% Company performance)
5.  Incentive Group 5
10/90 (10% individual performance, 90% Company performance)
6.  Incentive Group 6
100% (100% Company performance), subject to additional rules set forth below.
A matrix is developed annually by the Company that incorporates the Company payout ratio, the incentive groups outlined above, and the eligible individual performance ratings ranging from Outstanding (Exceeds Expectations) to Needs Improvement (Meets Most Expectations).  The resulting multiplier is a function of these elements and is reflective of individual eligibility and performance level.
                 
C.
                                    
Qualified Performance-Based Awards
Notwithstanding anything in these Guidelines to the contrary, the following provisions will apply to any Associate who is a Covered Employee for purposes of benefiting from the Section 162(m) Exemption applicable to Qualified Performance-Based Awards under Article 14 of the Plan.  .
Please refer to the Plan document for further information
All determinations under these Guidelines will be made by the Committee which, pursuant to section 4.1 of the Plan, will consist of all the members of the Compensation Committee who are "outside directors" within the meaning or Section 162(m) of the Code.
                 
The Committee will establish the target bonus amount for each Associate covered by this Section 4.C and the pre-tax earnings goal for the fiscal year.
                 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee will adjust the pre-tax earnings goal for the fiscal year with respect to each Associate covered by this Section 4.C to adequately reflect the occurrence, during such fiscal year, of any of the events described in Section 14.4 of the Plan.
                 
Payment of any cash bonus under these Guidelines to any Associate covered by this Section 4.C is conditioned upon the written certification of the Committee that the performance goals and any other material conditions applicable to such award were satisfied.
                 
The Committee will retain the discretion to decrease, but not increase, the amount of any cash bonus otherwise payable to any Associate covered by this Section 4.C in accordance with the applicable performance formula described above.  Specifically, with respect to any Associate covered by this Section 4.C who is not a member of the Incentive Group 6 described above (and whose bonus therefore is calculated in part on the basis of the Associate's individual performance), the Committee will use the Associate's individual performance level for the relevant fiscal year solely for purposes of decreasing (to the extent permitted by the performance formula described above) the amount of any cash bonus otherwise payable to the Associate, if the Committee deems it appropriate in its discretion.
                 
In no event will the amount of any cash bonus otherwise payable to any Associate covered by this Section 4.C in accordance with the applicable performance formula described above exceed $1,000,000.
                 
Payment of any cash bonus under these Guidelines to any Associate covered by this Section 4.C is conditioned upon the Plan having been previously approved by the shareholders of the Company.
                 
6.             Additional Rules
Notwithstanding anything in these Guidelines to the contrary, the total annual bonus pool available for awards made pursuant to these Guidelines to participating Associates in the relevant fiscal year shall be determined by the Committee (subject to the rules described above relating to Qualified Performance-Based Awards) after the end of such fiscal year, and will in no event exceed 5% of the net profit realized by the Company and its subsidiaries during such fiscal year, computed on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles, before any deduction for federal or state income taxes and before any deduction in respect of, or provision for, (i) appropriations or distributions made or to be made under these Guidelines, or (ii) payments
                 
made to officers or other employees under any agreement or other arrangements based upon or relating to profits of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, years of service with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or performance of the Company's retail stores; provided that the Committee may make the same adjustments to such net profit as may be made by the Committee with respect to the pre-tax earnings goal to recognize or to exclude any adjustment as set forth in Section 14.4 of the Plan.
Bonuses earned under these Guidelines are expected to be paid within seventy-five (75) days following the end of the month in which the fiscal year comes to an end.
                 
All bonus payments under these Guidelines are considered supplemental pay and will be taxed as such.  Appropriate withholding and deductions will be taken from such payments.  Percentages will be rounded to the nearest 1/10 of a percent (for example, 10.3%).  Amount of bonus will be rounded up to the nearest whole dollar.
                 
The amount of an Associate's earnings for the fiscal year which have actually been paid to the Associate will be used in determining the calculation.  This calculation excludes the salary elements for Company Aircraft, Company Car, GTL Imputed Income, or any bonus payments issued during the fiscal year.
                 
These Guidelines cannot be changed or modified by a verbal communication or course of dealing, but only by a written communication signed by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or President of the Company.
                 
In the event of major economic changes, catastrophic events, or any other circumstances not contemplated by the Company (but subject to the rules described above relating to Qualified Performance-Based Awards), the Committee reserves the right to alter, amend, or terminate these Guidelines and any awards hereunder.
                 
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or President of the Company will make all final decisions, rulings and interpretations under these Guidelines (subject to the rules described above relating to Qualified Performance-Based Awards, which may require action by the Committee).  By participating in the Plan under these Guidelines, each Associate agrees that such decisions, rulings and interpretations will be final and that each Associate will be bound by them.  Each Associate further agrees that if and when any circumstances arise relating to these Guidelines which are not covered by this description of the Plan, the Associate will be bound by the final decision, ruling or interpretation of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or President of the Company.
                 
Adopted by the Compensation Committee: October 3, 2006

Exhibit 99
CONTACT:
Kiley F. Rawlins, CFA
Divisional Vice President
(704) 849-7496
http://www.familydollar.com
For Immediate Release
- Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE: FDO) reported that net sales for the five weeks ended September 30, 2006, increased 7.8% to approximately $601.2 million from $557.9 million for the five weeks ended October 1, 2005.  Sales increases for the September period were the strongest in electronics, including pre-paid cellular phones and services, refrigerated food, and apparel.  The sales growth of household chemicals and other consumable and home products was adversely impacted by hurricanes last year.  Comparable store sales for the five-week period increased approximately 2.2%.  The Company had 6,208 stores as of September 30, 2006, including 38 new stores opened in the fiscal September period.
MATTHEWS, NC, October 5, 2006
The Company expects that comparable store sales in the four-week period ending October 28, 2006, will increase 2% to 4% from the similar period in the prior fiscal year.
Cautionary Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release, including those set forth under the caption "Outlook," are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements address the Company's plans, activities or events which the Company expects will or may occur in the future.  Various risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.  Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to:
                 
competitive factors and pricing pressures, including energy prices,
                 
changes in economic conditions,
                 
the impact of acts of war or terrorism,
                 
changes in consumer demand and product mix,
                 
unusual weather, natural disasters or pandemic outbreaks that may impact sales and/or operations,
                 
the impact of inflation,
                 
merchandise supply and pricing constraints,
                 
success of merchandising and marketing programs,
                 
the Company's ability to successfully execute its ongoing operational functions,
                 
general transportation or distribution delays or interruptions,
                 
dependence on imports,
                 
changes in currency exchange rates, trade restrictions, tariffs, quotas, and freight rates,
                 
success of new store opening programs,
                 
costs and delays associated with building, opening and operating new distribution facilities and stores,
                 
costs, potential problems and achievement of results associated with the implementation of programs, systems and technology, including supply chain systems, store technology, cooler installations and related food programs, Urban Initiative programs, and real estate expansion goals,
                 
changes in food and energy prices and their impact on consumer spending and the Company's costs,
                 
changes in shrinkage,
                 
the Company's ability to attract and retain employees,
                 
changes in interpretations or applications of accounting principles,
                 
changes in state or federal laws or regulations, including the effects of legislation and regulations on wage levels and entitlement programs.
Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made by the Company in this and other documents or statements are qualified by these and other factors, risks and uncertainties, including those set forth under "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" or "Risk Factors" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed or to be filed.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release. The Company does not undertake to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that projected results expressed or implied in such statements will not be realized, except as may be required by law.
About Family Dollar Stores, Inc.
With more than 6,200 stores in a 44-state area ranging northwest as Idaho, northeast to Maine, southeast to Florida, and southwest to Arizona, Family Dollar is one of the fastest growing discount store chains in the United States.  Family Dollar has provided value-conscious consumers with competitive prices at neighborhood stores for more than forty-six years.  Offering a consistent selection of name-brand and good quality merchandise in an attractive and convenient shopping environment, the Company is focused on continuing to meet the needs of shoppers looking for excellent value.


