FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20070308103229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): March 7, 2007 Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter) Delaware 1-6807 56-0942963 (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission (I.R.S. Employer of Incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) P.O. Box 1017, 10401 Monroe Road Charlotte, North Carolina 28201-1017 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (704) 847-6961 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition. On March 7, 2007, Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release that reported sales for the four and fourteen week periods ended March 3, 2007. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 8.01. Other Events. Also on March 7, 2007, the Company issued a news release which provided an update on the Company's review of its stock option grant practices. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (d) Exhibits -------- 99.1 - News Release dated March 7, 2007 99.2 - News Release dated March 7, 2007
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. FAMILY DOLLAR STORES, INC. ----------------------------------- (Registrant) Date: March 8, 2007 By: /s/ Janet G. Kelley ------------------------------------- Janet G. Kelley Senior Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary
Exhibit Index - ------------- Exhibit No. Document Description ----------- -------------------- 99.1 News Release dated March 7, 2007 99.2 News Release dated March 7, 2007

Exhibit 99.1 Family Dollar Reports February Sales MATTHEWS, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--March 7, 2007--Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE:FDO) reported that net sales for the four weeks ended March 3, 2007, increased 3.1% to approximately $511.4 million from $496.1 million for the comparable four-week period ended March 4, 2006. Sales increases for the four-week period were the strongest in food; sales of apparel and home products were soft. Comparable store sales for the four-week period ended March 3, 2007, decreased 0.5% when compared with sales for the similar four-week period last year. The Company had 6,319 stores as of March 3, 2007, including 29 new stores opened in the fiscal February period. The National Retail Federation ("NRF") monthly sales reporting calendar followed by the Company and widely used in the retail industry included a non-comparative fifth week in the January period this year. Consequently, total sales for the second quarter ended March 3, 2007, include fourteen weeks in the period compared to thirteen weeks in the second quarter of last fiscal year. For comparability purposes, the Company has compared similar calendar periods in both this year and last year in its monthly sales results. Consequently, the Company's reported sales for its fiscal 2006 quarterly periods will differ from the sum of the months reported in monthly sales releases. Comparable Store Total Sales Total Sales Sales Change Change Change Sales (Fiscal (NRF (NRF (millions) Period) Calendar) Calendar) ------------- ------------- ----------- ---------- February 2007 $511.4 0.8% 3.1% -0.5% Second Quarter $1,947.4 12.2% 4.5% 0.4% Year-to-date $3,547.6 9.3% 5.1% 0.6% Outlook As previously announced, the Company expects to record approximately $12 million during the second quarter for legal, accounting and related expenses incurred in connection with the review of the Company's stock option grant practices. As a result of such previously unplanned expense, the Company currently expects earnings for the fiscal 2007 second quarter will be at or near the low end of the Company's previously provided guidance of $0.58 to $0.64 per share. Reflecting that Easter is one week earlier than last year, the Company expects that comparable store sales in the five-week period ending April 7, 2007, will increase 2% to 4% from the similar period in the prior fiscal year. First Quarter Earnings Conference Call Information Family Dollar plans to announce financial results for the second quarter ended March 3, 2007, on Thursday, March 29, 2007. The Company plans to host a conference call on March 29, 2007, at 10:00 a.m. ET to discuss the results. If you wish to participate, please call 1-888-215-0829 for domestic USA calls and 1-706-634-8796 for international calls at least 10 minutes before the call is scheduled to begin. The conference ID for the conference call is 1681973 and the meeting leader is Ms. Kiley Rawlins. A replay of the call will be available from 12:00 p.m. ET, March 29, 2007, through 5:00 p.m. ET, April 5, 2007, by calling 1-800-642-1687 for domestic USA calls and 1-706-645-9291 for international calls. The conference ID for the replay is 1681973. There will also be a live webcast of the conference call that can be accessed at the following link: http://www.familydollar.com/investors.aspx?p=irhome. A replay of the webcast will be available at the same address noted above after 2:00 p.m. ET, March 29, 2007. Cautionary Statements Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements address the Company's plans, activities or events which the Company expects will or may occur in the future. Various risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to: -- competitive factors and pricing pressures, including energy prices, -- changes in economic conditions, -- the impact of acts of war or terrorism, -- changes in consumer demand and product mix, -- unusual weather, natural disasters or pandemic outbreaks that may impact sales and/or operations, -- the impact of inflation, -- merchandise supply and pricing constraints, -- success of merchandising and marketing programs, -- the Company's ability to successfully execute its ongoing operational functions, -- general transportation or distribution delays or interruptions, -- dependence on imports, -- changes in currency exchange rates, trade restrictions, tariffs, quotas, and freight rates, -- success of new store opening programs, -- costs and delays associated with building, opening and operating new distribution facilities and stores, -- costs and/or failure to achieve results associated with the implementation of programs, systems and technology, including merchandising and supply chain processes, store technology, cooler installations and related food programs, Urban Initiative programs, and real estate expansion goals, -- changes in food and energy prices and their impact on consumer spending and the Company's costs, -- changes in shrinkage, -- the Company's ability to attract and retain employees, -- changes in interpretations or applications of accounting principles, or -- changes in state or federal laws or regulations, including the effects of legislation and regulations on wage levels and entitlement programs. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made by the Company in this and other documents or statements are qualified by these and other factors, risks and uncertainties, including those set forth under "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" or "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed or to be filed. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release. The Company does not undertake to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that projected results expressed or implied in such statements will not be realized, except as may be required by law. About Family Dollar Stores, Inc. With more than 6,300 stores in a 44-state area ranging northwest to Idaho, northeast to Maine, southeast to Florida, and southwest to Arizona, Family Dollar is one of the fastest growing discount store chains in the United States. Family Dollar has provided value-conscious consumers with competitive prices at neighborhood stores for more than forty-six years. Offering a consistent selection of name-brand and good quality merchandise in an attractive and convenient shopping environment, the Company is focused on continuing to meet the needs of shoppers looking for excellent value. CONTACT: Family Dollar Stores, Inc. Kiley F. Rawlins, CFA, 704-849-7496 Divisional Vice President http://www.familydollar.com

Exhibit 99.2 Family Dollar Provides Update on Stock Option Review Announces Pretax Charge of Approximately $10.5 Million to Previously Reported Fiscal 2006 Results Updates Guidance for Second Quarter of Fiscal 2007 MATTHEWS, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--March 7, 2007--Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE:FDO) announced today that the Company has determined that it did not properly account for the issuance of certain stock options granted during the period from fiscal 1995 to fiscal 2006 and plans to record a charge in the amount of approximately $10.5 million, for the year ended August 26, 2006 ("fiscal 2006"). The Company's accounting determinations are based on its review of the principal factual findings made by the Special Committee appointed by the Board of Directors to review the Company's stock option grant practices and presented to the Company's Board of Directors and management. As the impact of the resulting accounting adjustments attributable to any prior reporting periods was not material to any of such periods, the Company will not restate previously issued financial statements. Rather, the Company plans to record a pretax cumulative charge in the amount of approximately $10.5 million, or approximately $0.04 per diluted share after taxes, for fiscal 2006. Approximately $7.9 million of the $10.5 million charge relates to the annual grants made in fiscal years 1995 to 2004 to all stock option participants, with the remaining charge arising from grants made to newly hired employees (approximately $1.3 million) and interest expense arising as a result of certain related tax adjustments. Annual stock option grants were made to employees as part of the Company's annual compensation review process, which generally occurred over a number of weeks. The Company's available documentation of the annual grant process was incomplete in most years. As a result, the Company has selected the date of the delivery of stock option agreements to its employees as the measurement date for accounting purposes for most annual grants rather than the original grant date selected by the Company. Beginning in fiscal 2005, the Company's stock option practices for the annual grants were revised, and therefore, the measurement dates for such grants were correctly determined. The Company expects to record approximately $12 million during the second quarter for legal, accounting and related expenses incurred in connection with the Special Committee's review and related matters. As a result of such previously unplanned expense, the Company currently expects earnings for the fiscal 2007 second quarter will be at or near the low end of the Company's previously provided guidance of $0.58 to $0.64 per share. The Special Committee is continuing its consideration of various matters relating to the Company's option granting practices, including consideration of appropriate remedial measures and what actions the Company should take with respect to the pending shareholder derivative litigation. The Company's accounting determinations were reviewed with the Company's independent registered public accountants, PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP. The Company expects to file its annual report on Form 10-K for the 2006 fiscal year and its fiscal 2007 first quarter report on Form 10-Q within the next several weeks. The Company is continuing to address related tax issues. Cautionary Statements Certain statements contained in this report are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements address the Company's plans, activities or events which the Company expects will or may occur in the future. Various risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to: -- the final report and recommendations of the Special Committee of the Company's Board of Directors, including appropriate remedial measures; -- developments in legal or regulatory guidance regarding stock option grants and related accounting matters, -- developments in the shareholder derivative actions, -- the outcome of the SEC investigation, -- other litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings resulting from the Company's stock option practices and the results of the Company's review of such practices and related resulting accounting charges, -- failure to comply with covenants governing the Company's indebtedness, -- the delays in the Company's timely filing of its reports with the SEC and risks that may be associated with the claims or proceedings related to such matters, -- competitive factors and pricing pressures, including energy prices, -- changes in economic conditions, -- the impact of acts of war or terrorism, -- changes in consumer demand and product mix, -- unusual weather, natural disasters or pandemic outbreaks that may impact sales and/or operations, -- the impact of inflation, -- merchandise supply and pricing constraints, -- success of merchandising and marketing programs, -- the Company's ability to successfully execute its ongoing operational functions, -- general transportation or distribution delays or interruptions, -- dependence on imports, -- changes in currency exchange rates, trade restrictions, tariffs, quotas, and freight rates, -- success of new store opening programs, -- costs and delays associated with building, opening and operating new distribution facilities and stores, -- costs and/or failure to achieve results associated with the implementation of programs, systems and technology, including merchandising and supply chain processes, store technology, cooler installations and related food programs, Urban Initiative programs, and real estate expansion goals, -- changes in food and energy prices and their impact on consumer spending and the Company's costs, -- changes in shrinkage, -- the Company's ability to attract and retain employees, -- changes in interpretations or applications of accounting principles, or -- changes in state or federal laws or regulations, including the effects of legislation and regulations on wage levels and entitlement programs. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made by the Company in this and other documents or statements are qualified by these and other factors, risks and uncertainties, including those set forth under "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" or "Risk Factors" in the Company Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed or to be filed. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company does not undertake to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that projected results expressed or implied in such statements will not be realized, except as may be required by law. About Family Dollar Stores, Inc. With more than 6,300 stores in a 44-state area ranging as far northwest as Idaho, northeast to Maine, southeast to Florida, and southwest to Arizona, Family Dollar is one of the fastest growing discount store chains in the United States. Family Dollar has provided value-conscious consumers with competitive prices at neighborhood stores for more than forty-six years. Offering a consistent selection of name-brand and good quality merchandise in an attractive and convenient shopping environment, the Company is focused on continuing to meet the needs of shoppers looking for excellent value. CONTACT: Family Dollar Stores, Inc. Kiley F. Rawlins, CFA Divisional Vice President 704-849-7496 http://www.familydollar.com


