FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20071106165223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 5, 2007 Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter) Delaware 1-6807 56-0942963 (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer of Incorporation) Identification No.) P.O. Box 1017, 10401 Monroe Road Charlotte, North Carolina 28201-1017 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (704) 847-6961 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. (d) Election of Harvey Morgan to Board of Directors. Effective November 5, 2007, the Board of Directors ("Board") of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company"), increased the number of members of the Board from eight to nine, and thereafter appointed Harvey Morgan to fill the resulting vacancy. Mr. Morgan has also been added to the Audit Committee of the Board. The Board has determined that Mr. Morgan qualifies as an independent director under the categorical independence standards set forth in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as applicable Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") requirements. Additionally, the Board has determined that Mr. Morgan is an audit committee financial expert under SEC regulations. As set forth in the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan Directors' Share Awards Guidelines, as a non-management member of the Company's Board, Mr. Morgan will receive a retainer in the form of shares of the Company's common stock having a fair market value of $30,000, subject to a pro-rata reduction to reflect the portion of the Plan Year prior to the date which Mr. Morgan was elected to the Board. Additionally, pursuant to the compensation arrangements established by the Compensation Committee for all non-employee directors, Mr. Morgan will be paid an annual cash retainer of $40,000 per fiscal year, payable quarterly in arrears. He will also receive $1,500 for each meeting of the Board that he attends, and $1,000 for each Committee meeting that he attends, except that he will receive $500 for any Board or Committee meeting attended telephonically. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Morgan and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Morgan was selected as a director. Mr. Morgan has no direct or indirect material interest in any prior, existing or proposed transaction, or series of transactions with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or management. A news release announcing Mr. Morgan's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. (e) Amendment of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards (the "Cash Bonus Awards Guidelines"). At its meeting held on November 5, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Compensation Committee") amended the Cash Bonus Award Guidelines, which were adopted pursuant to the Company's 2006 Incentive Plan. The Cash Bonus Award Guidelines provide eligible employees of the Company with the opportunity to earn annual incentive compensation in the form of a cash bonus equal to a percentage of such employees' base salary (the "Target Bonus"), contingent upon the Company's achievement of pre-tax earnings goals. The Cash Bonus Award Guidelines were amended to increase the limitation on the total annual bonus pool available for awards from 5% of the Company's net profits in any fiscal year, to 7% of the Company's net profits in any fiscal year. This amendment facilitates the Committee's intent in amending the Cash Bonus Awards Guidelines at its meeting on August 28, 2007, to provide for a maximum payment percentage of 200% of a participant's base salary if the Company's exceeds its pre-tax earnings goal 25%. -2-
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the Cash Bonus Award Guidelines and reference is made to the complete text of the Guidelines which are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference. Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year. On November 5, 2007, the Board voted to amend Sections 1, 2 and 3 of Article VIII of the Company's Bylaws. The amendment permits the issuance and transfer of uncertificated shares of the Company's stock so that the Company will be eligible to participate in the Direct Registration System ("DRS"). The DRS will allow the Company's investors to record and maintain securities on the books of the Company's transfer agent without the issuance of a stock certificate. Recent rule changes adopted by the NYSE require the Company to be eligible to participate in the DRS by January 1, 2008. A copy of the Company's Bylaws, as amended, are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated by reference. Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure. On November 5, 2007, the Company issued a news release announcing that the Company's Board has authorized the Company to purchase an additional $150 million of the Company's common stock. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (d) Exhibits -------- 3.1 - Bylaws of Family Dollar Stores, Inc., amended November 5, 2007 10.1 - 2006 Incentive Plan Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards 99.1 - News Release dated November 5, 2007 regarding the appointment of Harvey Morgan to the Company's Board of Directors 99.2 - News Release dated November 5, 2007 regarding the Company's share repurchase program -3-
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. FAMILY DOLLAR STORES, INC. ------------------------------------------------- (Registrant) Date: November 6, 2007 By: /s/ Janet G. Kelley --------------------------------------------- Janet G. Kelley Senior Vice President-General Counsel -4-
Exhibit Index - ------------- Exhibit No. Document Description ----------- -------------------- 3.1 Bylaws of Family Dollar Stores, Inc., amended November 5, 2007 10.1 2006 Incentive Plan Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards 99.1 News Release dated November 5, 2007 regarding the appointment of Harvey Morgan to the Company's Board of Directors 99.2 News Release dated November 5, 2007 regarding the Company's share repurchase program -5-

EXHIBIT 3.1 BYLAWS OF FAMILY DOLLAR STORES, INC. ARTICLE I OFFICES SECTION 1. DELAWARE OFFICE. The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware, and the name of the registered agent in charge thereof is The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Inc. SECTION 2. OTHER OFFICES. The Corporation may have an office or offices at such other places in the United States or elsewhere as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require. ARTICLE II MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS SECTION 1. ANNUAL MEETING. An annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before said meeting shall be held on the third Thursday in January of each year, if not a legal holiday and if a legal holiday, then on the next succeeding full business day or on such other date as the Board of Directors may designate, at such hour and at such place, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of said meeting. SECTION 2. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of stockholders for any purpose or purposes may, except as otherwise prescribed by law or in the Certificate of Incorporation, be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board or by resolution of the Board of Directors, to be held at such time and place, within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated in the notice thereof. SECTION 3. NOTICE OF MEETING. Except as otherwise provided or permitted by law or in the Certificate of Incorporation or in these Bylaws, written notice of all meetings of stockholders, stating the place, date and hour and in general terms only, the purpose or purposes thereof, shall be given to each stockholder of record having voting power in respect of the business to be transacted thereat, either by serving such notice upon him or her personally or by mailing the same to his or her address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
SECTION 4. QUORUM. The holders of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall be required to and shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws. When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock having voting power present in person or by proxy shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of law or of the Certificate of Incorporation or of these Bylaws a larger or different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question. The stockholders present or represented at any duly called and held meeting at which a quorum is present or represented may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of such number as to leave less than a quorum. SECTION 5. ADJOURNMENTS. At any meeting of stockholders, including a meeting at which a quorum is not present or represented, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting of the time and place of the adjourned meeting. At such adjourned meeting any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If any adjournment, whether a quorum is present or not, is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. SECTION 6. ORGANIZATION. Each meeting of stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, or in his or her absence, by the Chief Executive Officer or Vice Chairman or the President or a Vice President or any other person thereunto designated by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors. The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at such meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules or regulations for the conduct of meetings of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chair of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chair, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chair of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (1) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (2) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (3) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting, to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chair shall permit; (4) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof, and (5) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless, and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chair of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be 2
required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure. The Secretary, or in his or her absence an Assistant Secretary, or in the absence of both the Secretary and an Assistant Secretary any person designated by the Chairman of the Board or other person presiding at the meeting, shall act as secretary of the meeting. SECTION 7. PROXIES AND VOTING OF SHARES. At any meeting of stockholders, each stockholder entitled to vote any shares on any matter to be voted upon at such meeting may exercise such voting right either in person or by proxy appointed by an instrument in writing, which shall be filed with the Secretary of the meeting before being voted. Such proxies shall entitle the holders thereof to vote at any adjournment of such meeting, but shall not be valid after the final adjournment thereof. No proxy shall be voted on after three years from its date unless said proxy provides for a longer period. Except as otherwise expressly required by statute, the vote on any question need not be by written ballot. SECTION 8. VOTING LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS. The officer who shall have charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at said meeting, arranged in alphabetical order and showing the address and the number of shares registered in the name of each such stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where said meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger or the list of stockholders referred to above or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at the meeting of stockholders. SECTION 9. NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS AND NOMINATIONS. At any meeting of the stockholders, only business that has been properly brought before the meeting may be conducted. Nominations for the election of directors and the proposal of other business at an annual meeting may be made only: (1) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting; (2) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors; or (3) by a stockholder entitled to vote who complies with this Section 9. A notice of the intent of a stockholder to make a nomination or to bring any other matter before the annual meeting pursuant to subsection (3) above, shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty days before or more than seventy days after its anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of 3
business on the later of the forty-fifth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In the event of a special meeting at which directors are to be elected, any stockholder entitled to vote may nominate a person or persons for election as director if the stockholder's notice is received by the Secretary of the Corporation not later than the close of the fifteenth day following the day on which notice of the meeting is first mailed to stockholders. Any notice by a stockholder shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the stockholder; (b) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of the Corporation's voting stock (including the number and class of shares held) and that the stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to make the nomination or bring up the matter specified in the notice; (c) with respect to notice of an intent to make a nomination, a description of all arrangements or understandings among the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (d) with respect to notice of an intent to make a nomination, all information regarding each nominee that would be required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"); and (e) with respect to notice of an intent to bring up any other matter, a description of the matter, and any material interest of the stockholder in the matter. Notice of intent to make a nomination shall be accompanied by the written consent of each nominee to serve as director of the Corporation if so elected. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 9, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 9. Nothing in this Section 9 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act. 4
ARTICLE III DIRECTORS SECTION 1. POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS. The Board of Directors shall have the general management of the affairs, property and business of the Corporation and may adopt such rules and regulations for that purpose and for the conduct of their meetings as they may deem proper. The Board of Directors may exercise and shall be vested with the powers of the Corporation insofar as not inconsistent with law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws. SECTION 2. NUMBER AND QUALIFICATIONS. The authorized number of directors shall be determined by the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of directors given at a regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors; provided, that, if the number so determined is to be increased or decreased, notice of the proposed increase or decrease shall be included in the notice of such meeting unless all of the directors at the time in office be present at such meeting or those not present shall at any time waive or have waived notice thereof in writing; and provided further, that the number of directors which shall constitute the total number of directors shall not be reduced to a number less than the number of directors then in office unless such reduction shall become effective only at and after the next ensuing meeting of stockholders for the election of directors or upon the resignation of an incumbent director. Directors need not be stockholders of the Corporation. SECTION 3. ELECTION AND TERM. Except as otherwise provided by law or by these Bylaws, the directors of the Corporation shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders in each year. Each director shall be elected to serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until a successor shall have been duly elected and shall qualify, subject to the provisions of Article V hereof. SECTION 4. REGULAR MEETINGS. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such time and place, either within or outside of the State of Delaware, as may be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. No notice of a regular meeting need be given (any practice or custom at any time to the contrary notwithstanding) and any business may be transacted at a regular meeting, held as aforesaid, subject only to the requirements of Section 2 of Article III. SECTION 5. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may, unless otherwise expressly provided by law, be called from time to time by the Chairman of the Board, the Lead Director, the Chief Executive Officer or the Vice Chairman, or by a written call signed by any two or more directors and filed with the Secretary. Each special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place, either within or outside of the State of Delaware, as shall be designated in the notice of such meeting. SECTION 6. NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETINGS. Notice of a special meeting of the Board of Directors, stating the place, date and hour thereof, shall, except as 5
otherwise expressly provided by law or as provided in Section 2 of Article VII hereof, be given by mailing, telecopying or by sending by electronic transmission the same to each director at his or her residence or business address at any time on or before the second day before the day of the meeting or by delivering the same to him or her personally or telephoning the same to him or her personally at his or her residence or business address not later than the day before the day of the meeting, unless, in case of exigency, the Chairman of the Board, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Lead Director, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the President, a Vice President or the Secretary, shall prescribe a shorter notice to each director at his or her residence or business address. Except as otherwise required by statute or the Bylaws, no notice or waiver of notice of a special meeting of the Board of Directors need state the purpose or purposes of such meeting, and any business may be transacted thereat, any practice or custom at any time to the contrary notwithstanding. SECTION 7. QUORUM. A majority of the directors at the time in office, but in no event less than one-third of the total number of directors, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors. If less than a quorum be present at a meeting, the directors present may adjourn the meeting and the meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice. If a quorum be present at a meeting and the meeting is adjourned to reconvene at a later time and/or date, no notice need be given other than announcement at the meeting. Except as otherwise provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws, when a quorum is present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, a majority of the directors present at such meeting shall decide any question brought before such meeting and the action of such majority shall be deemed to be the action of the Board of Directors. The directors present at any duly called and held meeting at which a quorum is present or represented may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of such number as to leave less than a quorum. SECTION 8. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND LEAD DIRECTOR. The Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members a director who shall be designated as the Chairman of the Board and who may, as provided in Article IV, Section 4 hereof, also be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. If the Chairman of the Board is not the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, the Chairman of the Board shall not be an officer of the Corporation, unless otherwise designated as such by the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. If the Chief Executive Officer is serving as the Chairman of the Board, the Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members a director who shall be designated as the Lead Director. The Lead Director shall consult with and act as a liaison between the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer and perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. The Lead Director, if any, shall, when present, preside over meetings of the Board of Directors in the absence of the Chairman of the Board. Meetings of the non-management and/or independent members of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Lead Director, of if there is 6
none, by the Chairman of the Board, if he or she is independent, or if he or she is not independent, by a director selected to so preside at such meeting(s). SECTION 9. ORGANIZATION. Each meeting of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, or, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Lead Director, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Lead Director, by any director selected to preside by vote of a majority of the directors present. The Secretary, or in his or her absence an Assistant Secretary, or in the absence of both the Secretary and an Assistant Secretary, or at the request of the chairman of the meeting (with the consent of the Secretary, if present), any person designated by the chairman of the meeting shall act as secretary of the meeting. SECTION 10. COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS. The directors may be paid their expenses of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary as director. The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of the directors. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like reimbursement and additional compensation for attending committee meetings. Members of the Board of Directors may also participate in stock option, stock bonus and other equity compensation plans and programs established by the Corporation to the extent they are by the terms thereof eligible to so participate. SECTION 11. COMMITTEES. The Board of Directors may, by resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation, which, to the extent provided in said resolution or resolutions, shall have and may exercise the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may have the power to authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it, but no such committee shall have any power or authority not permitted by statute. Such committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. The committees shall keep regular minutes of their proceedings and report the same to the Board of Directors when required. SECTION 12 . WRITTEN CONSENTS. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee. SECTION 13. TELEPHONIC PARTICIPATION. Members of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear 7
each other, and participation in a meeting in such manner shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. ARTICLE IV OFFICERS SECTION 1. NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a Vice Chairman, a President, a Chief Financial Officer, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors may also appoint one or more Vice Presidents, a Comptroller and one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Comptrollers, Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers. Any number of offices may be held by the same person but no officer shall act in more than one capacity where action of two or more officers is required. SECTION 2. APPOINTMENT, TERM AND QUALIFICATION. The Board of Directors shall appoint the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Vice Chairman, President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary or Treasurer, and may appoint such other officers as it may designate or may authorize a duly appointed officer to appoint one or more other officers or assistant officers, other than those set forth above. Each such officer shall serve as such at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. None of the officers of the Corporation, other than that the Chairman of the Board, need be directors. SECTION 3. OTHER OFFICERS. The Board of Directors may also appoint such other officers and agents, or provide for the appointment of such other officers and agents, as it may deem necessary for the transaction of the business of the Corporation. Such officers and agents shall hold office for such period, have such authority and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by or under the authority of the Board of Directors. SECTION 4. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The Chairman of the Board shall be appointed by the Board of Directors from among its members as set forth in Article III, Section 8 hereof. If the Chief Executive Officer is appointed as the Chairman of the Board, he or she shall hold such position as an officer of the Corporation. In addition to the duties set forth in Articles II and III hereof, the Chairman of the Board shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. SECTION 5. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Chief Executive Officer shall have the general control and management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, under the direction of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have power: (1) to select and appoint all necessary officers and employees of the Corporation except such officers as under these Bylaws are to be appointed exclusively by the Board of Directors; (2) to remove all officers or employees selected or appointed by him or her whenever he or she shall deem it necessary, and to make new appointments to fill the vacancies; and (3) to suspend from office for cause any officer appointed by the Board of Directors, which shall be 8
forthwith declared in writing to the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. SECTION 6. VICE CHAIRMAN. The Vice Chairman shall be the chief administrative officer of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time prescribe. SECTION 7. PRESIDENT. The President shall perform such duties and have such powers relative to the business and affairs of the Corporation as the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time prescribe. If the Board of Directors shall not have elected a Chief Executive Officer, the President shall have such authority and shall perform such additional duties as in these Bylaws is provided for the office of Chief Executive Officer. SECTION 8. CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER. The Chief Financial Officer shall be responsible for the general oversight and management of the financial affairs of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time prescribe. SECTION 9. VICE PRESIDENTS. Each Vice President shall perform such duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the President or as may be prescribed by the Bylaws. A Vice President may be designated as the chief accounting officer of the Corporation who shall have general supervision over the Corporation's accounting division and the Treasurer's department, subject to the control of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer and the Vice Chairman. SECTION 10. SECRETARY. The Secretary shall record or cause to be recorded in books provided for the purpose all the proceedings of the meetings of the Corporation including those of the stockholders, the Board of Directors and all committees thereof; shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by law; shall be custodian of the records (other than financial) and of the seal of the Corporation and see that the seal is affixed to all documents the execution of which on behalf of the Corporation under its seal is duly authorized in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws; shall see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and all other documents and records required by law are properly kept and filed; and in general, the Secretary shall perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman or the President. SECTION 11. ASSISTANT SECRETARIES. In the absence of the Secretary, or in case of his or her inability to act, an Assistant Secretary designated by the 9
Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the President or the Board of Directors shall perform all duties of the Secretary and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of the Secretary. The Assistant Secretaries shall perform such other duties as from time to time shall be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the President or the Secretary. SECTION 12. TREASURER. The Treasurer shall have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds and securities of the Corporation, and deposit all such funds in the name of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws; receive, and give receipts for, monies due and payable to the Corporation from any source whatsoever; and in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, or the Chief Financial Officer. SECTION 13. ASSISTANT TREASURERS. In the absence of the Treasurer, or in case of his or her inability to act, an Assistant Treasurer designated by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer or the Board of Directors shall perform all the duties of the Treasurer and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of the Treasurer. The Assistant Treasurers shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, or the Treasurer. SECTION 14. COMPENSATION. The compensation of all officers, agents and employees of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by or in the manner prescribed by the Board of Directors. No officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary by reason of the fact that he or she is also a director of the Corporation or a member of any committee. ARTICLE V RESIGNATIONS AND REMOVALS SECTION 1. RESIGNATIONS. Any director, officer or agent of the Corporation may, subject to contrary provision in any applicable contract, resign at any time by giving written notice to any of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the President or the Secretary of the Corporation, and any member of any committee may resign at any time by giving notice either as aforesaid or to the committee of which he or she is a member or to the chairman thereof. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if the time is not specified, upon receipt thereof; and unless otherwise specified herein, acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. 10
SECTION 2. REMOVALS. The stockholders at any meeting called for the purpose, by vote of the majority of the outstanding stock entitled to vote, may remove from office either for or without cause any director and elect his or her successor. The Board of Directors may remove from office any officer, agent or member of any committee, elected or appointed by it. ARTICLE VI VACANCIES SECTION 1. AMONG DIRECTORS. If the office of any director becomes vacant at any time by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, or if any new directorship is created by any increase in the authorized number of directors, a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or the sole remaining director, may choose a successor or fill the newly created directorship, and the director so chosen shall hold office, subject to the provisions of these Bylaws, until the next annual election of directors and until his or her successor shall be duly elected and shall qualify. In the event that a vacancy arising as aforesaid shall not have been filled by the Board of Directors, such vacancy may be filled by the stockholders at any meeting thereof after such office becomes vacant. If one or more directors shall resign from the Board of Directors, effective at a future date, a majority of the directors then in office, including those who have so prospectively resigned, shall have the power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective, and each director so chosen shall hold office as herein provided in the filling of other vacancies. SECTION 2. AMONG OFFICERS, ETC. If the office of the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Vice Chairman, President, any Vice President, the Secretary or the Treasurer, or of any other officer or agent or member of any committee, becomes vacant at any time by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office, or otherwise, such vacancy or vacancies shall be filled by the Board of Directors or as authorized by it. ARTICLE VII NOTICES SECTION 1. MANNER OF GIVING. Whenever under the provisions of the laws of the State of Delaware, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, notice is required to be given to any director or stockholder, it shall not be construed to mean personal notice, but such notice may be given by mailing, telecopying or sending by electronic transmission the same to each such director or stockholder at such address as appears on the books or in the records of the Corporation, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same is thus mailed, telecopied or sent by electronic transmission. 11
SECTION 2. WAIVER OF NOTICE. Whenever under the provisions of these Bylaws, or of the Certificate of Incorporation, or of any of the laws of the State of Delaware, the stockholders or directors are authorized to hold any meeting or take any action after notice or after the lapse of any prescribed period of time, a waiver thereof, in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice or lapse of time, whether before or after the time of meeting or action stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. The presence at any meeting of a person or persons entitled to notice thereof shall be deemed a waiver of such notice as to such person or persons. ARTICLE VIII CAPITAL STOCK SECTION 1. FORM AND ISSUANCE. Shares of the Corporation's stock may be certificated or uncertificated and shall be entered in the books of the Corporation and registered as they are issued. Certificates of stock shall be issued in such form as may be approved by the Board of Directors and shall be signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer, or the Vice Chairman, or the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation; provided, however, that if such certificate is countersigned (1) by a transfer agent other than the Corporation or its employee, or, (2) by a registrar other than the Corporation or its employee, the signatures of the officers of the Corporation may be facsimiles. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer at the date of issue. SECTION 2. TRANSFERS OF STOCK. The Board of Directors shall have power and authority to make such rules and regulations or amendments thereto as they may deem expedient concerning the issue, registration and transfer of certificated or uncertificated stock and may appoint transfer agents and registrars thereof. SECTION 3. LOST, STOLEN AND DESTROYED CERTIFICATES. The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate or certificates, or uncertificated shares in place of any certificate or certificates, to be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon satisfactory proof of that fact by the person claiming the certificate or certificates for shares to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates or any uncertificated shares, the Board of Directors may, at its discretion, and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his or her legal representative, to give the Corporation and its agents a bond in such sum as the Board of Directors may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation or any of its agents with respect to the certificate or certificates alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed. 12
SECTION 4. FIXING OF RECORD DATE. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action. Only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or to receive payment of such dividend or other distribution, or to receive such allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of stock, or to participate in such other action, or to give such consent, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after any such record date fixed as aforesaid. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. ARTICLE IX NEGOTIABLE INSTRUMENTS, CONTRACTS, ETC. SECTION 1. SIGNATURES ON CHECKS, ETC. All checks, drafts, bills of exchange, notes or other instruments or orders for the payment of money or evidences of indebtedness shall be signed for or in the name of the Corporation by such officer or officers, person or persons, as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors or by such officers of the Corporation as may be designated by the Board of Directors. SECTION 2. EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS, DEEDS, ETC. The Board of Directors may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, to enter into or execute and deliver any and all deeds, bonds, mortgages, contracts and other obligations or instruments, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. ARTICLE X CORPORATE SEAL The seal of the Corporation shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal - Delaware". Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced in any manner whatsoever. 13
ARTICLE XI FISCAL YEAR The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by the Board of Directors. ARTICLE XII VOTING OF STOCK HELD Unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the President or a Vice President, or any officer designated by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or the Vice Chairman, are authorized to vote, represent and exercise on behalf of the Corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of stock or other ownership interests of the Corporation in any corporations, associations, limited liability companies, partnerships, or other entities standing in the name of the Corporation. The authority herein granted to the individuals to vote or represent on behalf of the Corporation any and all ownership interests held by the Corporation may be exercised either by the individuals in person or by any duly executed proxy or power of attorney. ARTICLE XIII INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE SECTION 1. INDEMNIFICATION. The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person who was or is made or is threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "proceeding") by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person for whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, nonprofit entity, or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) reasonably incurred by such person. The Corporation shall be required to indemnify a person and/or advance expenses under Section 2 below in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person against the Corporation only if the proceeding (or part thereof), other than a proceeding in accordance with Section 3 below, was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. SECTION 2. ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES. The Corporation shall pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by any present or former officer or director of the Corporation in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, provided, however, that such advancement of expenses shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the officer or director to repay all amounts advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified. 14
SECTION 3. CLAIMS. If a claim for indemnification or payment of expenses (including attorneys' fees) under this Article is not paid in full within sixty days after a written claim therefor has been received by the Corporation the claimant may file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim and, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim. In any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the claimant was not entitled to the requested indemnification or payment of expenses under applicable law. SECTION 4. INSURANCE. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may, in its discretion, authorize the Corporation to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him or her or incurred by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability under the provisions of Section 1 of Article XIII hereof. SECTION 5. NONEXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS. The right conferred on any person by this Article XIII shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise. ARTICLE XIV AMENDMENTS All Bylaws of the Corporation shall be subject to alteration or repeal, and new Bylaws may be made, either (a) by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote, given at an annual meeting or at any special meeting of such stockholders, or (b) by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, or (c) without any such meeting of the Board of Directors, by written consent signed by all members of the Board of Directors in accordance with Section 12 of Article III of these Bylaws. ARTICLE XV SHAREHOLDER PROTECTION ACT The provisions of NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES, Chapter 55, Sections 55-75 through 55-79, as amended, shall not be applicable to the Corporation. 15
ARTICLE XVI THE NORTH CAROLINA CONTROL SHARE ACQUISITION ACT To the extent otherwise deemed applicable, if any, the provisions of Article 7A of Chapter 55 of the NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES entitled The North Carolina Control Share Acquisition Act shall not be applicable to the Corporation. 16

FAMILY DOLLAR STORES, INC. 2006 INCENTIVE PLAN ------------------- Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards --------------------------------------- 1. Purpose Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") maintains for the benefit of eligible individuals the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), which is intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of such individuals upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Company's operation is largely dependent. These Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards (the "Guidelines") are intended to implement the Plan by providing eligible Associates of the Company an opportunity to participate in the Company's success by earning annual incentive compensation in the form of a cash bonus based on the Company's achievement of pre-tax earnings goals and the Associates' contributions to meeting such goals. These Guidelines are adopted pursuant to relevant provisions of the Plan and are to be interpreted and applied in accordance with the terms and provisions thereof. Specifically, these Guidelines provide for the grant of Performance-Based Cash Awards under Article 9 of the Plan and, with respect to Covered Employees, the grant of Qualified Performance-Based Awards under Article 14 of the Plan. Unless otherwise provided herein, capitalized terms used in these Guidelines will have the meaning given such terms in the Plan. 2. Scope The Guidelines cover eligible Associates as described in Section 3 of these Guidelines. The Guidelines cover the Company's fiscal (not calendar) year that is the 12-month period that generally runs from approximately September to August. The actual dates for the fiscal year are determined and announced by the Company prior to the beginning of each fiscal year. 3. Eligibility Eligibility for participation in the Plan under these Guidelines shall be determined by any of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or their designees) and communicated to department heads. Additional eligibility requirements are as follows: o An Associate must be classified as a regular, full-time employee for the entire fiscal year or the Associate's entire employment period in the fiscal year if the Associate was hired subsequent to the beginning of the fiscal year.
o An Associate must be hired and on the active payroll as a full-time employee as of the first business day after May 31 of the applicable fiscal year in order to participate during that fiscal year. o If an Associate, whose position was previously not identified as eligible for participation in the Plan under these Guidelines and who was eligible to participate in another bonus plan, is promoted to a position eligible to participate in the Plan under these Guidelines during the relevant fiscal year, such Associate will participate in each plan, subject to its conditions, on a prorated basis. The prorated calculation will be based upon the number of weeks and respective salary in each position. o If an Associate's position is changed during the relevant fiscal year and as a result of that change the bonus percentage applied in his or her individual bonus calculation under these Guidelines is affected, such Associate will participate on a prorated basis at each bonus percentage level based upon the number of weeks and respective salary in each position. o Except as otherwise provided below, an Associate must be on the payroll in a regular, full-time, active status when bonus checks are issued in order to receive payment under these Guidelines. An Associate on leave of absence, regardless of type, will receive the bonus payment only upon return to regular, full-time, active status; provided, however, that Associates on a Company approved family medical leave or approved military leave will be issued payment at the time bonus checks are issued even if they have not returned to regular, full-time, active status at that time. o An Associate whose employment with the Company terminates for any reason, other than death or termination of employment due to Disability or Retirement, prior to the issuance of bonus checks will forfeit any bonus such Associate otherwise would have been entitled to receive. o An Associate who dies or terminates employment due to Disability or Retirement after the end of the fiscal year but before the issuance of bonus checks will not forfeit the bonus which the Associate would have otherwise been entitled to receive. o An Associate who dies or terminates employment due to Disability during a fiscal year will participate on a prorated basis in the bonus program based upon the number of weeks of employment with the Company during such fiscal year and based upon an assumed performance rating of Satisfactory. o An Associate who terminates employment due to Retirement during a fiscal year will participate on a prorated basis in the bonus program based upon the number of weeks of employment with the Company during such fiscal year; provided that the Associate's term of employment is at least one-half of the fiscal year. An Associate who terminates employment due to Retirement in the first half of the fiscal year will
not receive any bonus amounts pursuant to these Guidelines for such fiscal year. o These Guidelines do not in any manner restrict the right of the Company or the Associate to terminate employment at any time, for any reason, with or without cause. o An Associate otherwise meeting all of the eligibility requirements of these Guidelines, but whose performance rating for the fiscal year is at the Unsatisfactory/Does Not Meet Expectations level, will not participate in the Plan under these Guidelines or be eligible for bonus for that fiscal year. 4. Target Bonus Amount and Adjustments for Performance The target bonus amount for an Associate under these Guidelines equals a percentage of the Associate's base compensation received in the relevant fiscal year, generally ranging from 10% to 100%. (See above for changes in the Associate's position during the fiscal year.) The applicable percentage for an Associate will be established by Human Resources and communicated to department heads. The actual bonus amount for the fiscal year, if any, will be determined as a percentage of the target bonus amount depending on Company and individual performance as follows: A. Company pre-tax earnings vs. Target o The Board of Directors of the Company determines prior to, or within 90 days after the beginning of, each fiscal year a pre-tax earnings goal for the fiscal year. o In addition, under relevant provisions of the Plan, the pre-tax earnings goal for the relevant fiscal year may be further adjusted to reflect extraordinary events or circumstances affecting the Company or its business, which render such goal unsuitable. o Achievement of the pre-tax earnings goal determines the first part of the bonus calculation under these Guidelines. Achievement at the 100% level would provide for payment at the Guidelines' "target" payout percentage (a percentage of the Associate's base salary times an established individual performance multiplier - See B below). o If the pre-tax earnings goal is exceeded, the target bonus amount will increase by 3.33% for each 1% by which the goal is exceeded, to a maximum of 50% additional bonus for exceeding the goal by 15%, and thereafter will increase by 5% for each 1% by which the goal is exceeded, to a maximum of an additional 50% bonus (up to a total of 200%) for exceeding the goal by 25%.
o If the pre-tax earnings goal is not achieved, the target bonus amount will decrease by 3.33% for each 1% by which the goal is not achieved, with no bonus being payable if pre-tax earnings are less than 85% of the goal. o Calculation of the target bonus payout percentage as described in the previous two paragraphs is reflected in the following chart: ------------------------------ ---------------------------- Performance Level Against Payout as Percent (%) of Pre-Tax Earnings Goal * Target Bonus Opportunity ------------------------------ ---------------------------- >= 125% 200% ------------------------------ ---------------------------- 115% 150% ------------------------------ ---------------------------- 100% 100% ------------------------------ ---------------------------- 85% 50% ------------------------------ ---------------------------- < 85% 0% ------------------------------ ---------------------------- * Linear interpolation will be used for performance between stated levels. B. Individual Associate performance level for the fiscal year as determined on a five point rating scale and the incentive grouping / position level of the Associate. o A performance multiplier is applied to the target bonus amount for which an individual Associate is eligible, as determined by the Associate's position level. The multiplier is determined using two factors: individual performance level and incentive level grouping as determined by position. o Six incentive groupings have been established based upon position levels within the Company. The higher the position level, the more heavily weighted the Company pre-tax earnings performance becomes. The following ratios are used to establish the multiplier: 1. Incentive Group 1 80/20 (80% individual performance, 20% Company performance) 2. Incentive Group 2 60/40 (60% individual performance, 40% Company performance) 3. Incentive Group 3 40/60 (40% individual performance, 60% Company performance) 4. Incentive Group 4 20/80 (20% individual performance, 80% Company performance) 5. Incentive Group 5 10/90 (10% individual performance, 90% Company performance) 6. Incentive Group 6 100% (100% Company performance), subject to additional rules set forth below.
o A matrix is developed annually by the Company that incorporates the Company payout ratio, the incentive groups outlined above, and the eligible individual performance ratings ranging from Outstanding (Exceeds Expectations) to Needs Improvement (Meets Most Expectations). The resulting multiplier is a function of these elements and is reflective of individual eligibility and performance level. C. Qualified Performance-Based Awards Notwithstanding anything in these Guidelines to the contrary, the following provisions will apply to any Associate who is a Covered Employee for purposes of benefiting from the Section 162(m) Exemption applicable to Qualified Performance-Based Awards under Article 14 of the Plan. Please refer to the Plan document for further information. o All determinations under these Guidelines will be made by the Committee which, pursuant to section 4.1 of the Plan, will consist of all the members of the Compensation Committee who are "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. o The Committee will establish the target bonus amount for each Associate covered by this Section 4.C and the pre-tax earnings goal for the fiscal year. o Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee will adjust the pre-tax earnings goal for the fiscal year with respect to each Associate covered by this Section 4.C to adequately reflect the occurrence, during such fiscal year, of any of the events described in Section 14.4 of the Plan. o Payment of any cash bonus under these Guidelines to any Associate covered by this Section 4.C is conditioned upon the written certification of the Committee that the performance goals and any other material conditions applicable to such award were satisfied. o The Committee will retain the discretion to decrease, but not increase, the amount of any cash bonus otherwise payable to any Associate covered by this Section 4.C in accordance with the applicable performance formula described above. Specifically, with respect to any Associate covered by this Section 4.C who is not a member of the Incentive Group 6 described above (and whose bonus therefore is calculated in part on the basis of the Associate's individual performance), the Committee will use the Associate's individual performance level for the relevant fiscal year solely for purposes of decreasing (to the extent permitted
by the performance formula described above) the amount of any cash bonus otherwise payable to the Associate, if the Committee deems it appropriate in its discretion. o In no event will the amount of any cash bonus otherwise payable to any Associate covered by this Section 4.C in accordance with the applicable performance formula described above exceed $1,000,000. o Payment of any cash bonus under these Guidelines to any Associate covered by this Section 4.C is conditioned upon the Plan having been previously approved by the shareholders of the Company. 6. Additional Rules o Notwithstanding anything in these Guidelines to the contrary, the total annual bonus pool available for awards made pursuant to these Guidelines to participating Associates in the relevant fiscal year shall be determined by the Committee (subject to the rules described above relating to Qualified Performance-Based Awards) after the end of such fiscal year, and will in no event exceed 7% of the net profit realized by the Company and its subsidiaries during such fiscal year, computed on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles, before any deduction for federal or state income taxes and before any deduction in respect of, or provision for, (i) appropriations or distributions made or to be made under these Guidelines, or (ii) payments made to officers or other employees under any agreement or other arrangements based upon or relating to profits of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, years of service with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or performance of the Company's retail stores; provided that the Committee may make the same adjustments to such net profit as may be made by the Committee with respect to the pre-tax earnings goal to recognize or to exclude any adjustment as set forth in Section 14.4 of the Plan. o Bonuses earned under these Guidelines are expected to be paid within seventy-five (75) days following the end of the month in which the fiscal year comes to an end. o All bonus payments under these Guidelines are considered supplemental pay and will be taxed as such. Appropriate withholding and deductions will be taken from such payments. Percentages will be rounded to the nearest 1/10 of a percent (for example, 10.3%). Amount of bonus will be rounded up to the nearest whole dollar. o The amount of an Associate's earnings for the fiscal year which have actually been paid to the Associate will be used in determining the calculation. This calculation excludes
the salary elements for Company Aircraft, Company Car, GTL Imputed Income, or any bonus payments issued during the fiscal year. o These Guidelines cannot be changed or modified by a verbal communication or course of dealing, but only by a written communication signed by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or President of the Company. o In the event of major economic changes, catastrophic events, or any other circumstances not contemplated by the Company (but subject to the rules described above relating to Qualified Performance-Based Awards), the Committee reserves the right to alter, amend, or terminate these Guidelines and any awards hereunder. o The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or President of the Company will make all final decisions, rulings and interpretations under these Guidelines (subject to the rules described above relating to Qualified Performance-Based Awards, which may require action by the Committee). By participating in the Plan under these Guidelines, each Associate agrees that such decisions, rulings and interpretations will be final and that each Associate will be bound by them. Each Associate further agrees that if and when any circumstances arise relating to these Guidelines which are not covered by this description of the Plan, the Associate will be bound by the final decision, ruling or interpretation of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or President of the Company. o In the event the Company restates its financial results within twelve (12) months of the payment of a bonus under these Guidelines due to material non-compliance by the Company with any financial reporting requirements of the federal securities laws, as a result of intentional misconduct (as determined by the members of the Board who are "independent" under the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines), the Company's executive officers shall reimburse the Company the difference between (x) the amount of the bonus actually awarded to the executive officer and (y) the amount of the bonus such executive officer would have received had the amount of the bonus been calculated based on the restated financial statements. Adopted by the Compensation Committee: October 3, 2006 Amended August 28, 2007, November 5, 2007

EXHIBIT 99.1 Family Dollar Names Harvey Morgan to Board of Directors MATTHEWS, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Nov. 5, 2007--Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE: FDO) today announced that it has named Harvey Morgan to its Board of Directors. "We continue to strengthen and enhance the expertise of our Board of Directors," said Howard R. Levine, Chairman and CEO. "Harvey is an excellent addition to our Board. His extensive financial and retail experience will further support our efforts to be a more compelling place to shop, work and invest." Mr. Morgan is currently a Managing Director of Bentley Associates, L.P., an investment banking firm. He has more than 30 years of investment banking experience with significant expertise in mergers and acquisitions, strategic advisory services, private placements, and underwritings. Mr. Morgan also serves on the Boards of Cybex International, Inc., and Executive Health Group, Inc. His previous Board experience includes: Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse Corporation, Clayton Homes, Inc., and Rag Shops, Inc. Mr. Morgan earned a Bachelor of Science from the University of North Carolina and a MBA from Harvard Business School. The Board has determined that Mr. Morgan qualifies as an independent director under the categorical independence standards set forth in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as applicable Securities and Exchange Commission and New York Stock Exchange requirements. Mr. Morgan's appointment represents an addition to the Family Dollar Board of Directors, bringing the total number of board members to nine, seven of whom are independent directors. About Family Dollar Beginning with one store in Charlotte, North Carolina, in 1959, the Company currently operates more than 6,400 stores in 44 states. Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, is based in Matthews, North Carolina, just outside of Charlotte and is a publicly held company with common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol FDO. For more information, please visit www.familydollar.com. CONTACT: Family Dollar Stores, Inc. Joshua Braverman, Public Relations Manager, 704-814-3447 jbraverman@familydollar.com http://www.familydollar.com

EXHIBIT 99.2 Family Dollar Announces Authorization to Purchase $150 Million of Common Stock Company also Declares Regular Quarterly Dividend MATTHEWS, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Nov. 5, 2007--Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE: FDO) announced that the Company's Board of Directors has authorized the Company to purchase from time to time, as market conditions warrant, an additional $150 million of the Company's common stock. The purchases could be made in the open market, in private transactions, or otherwise. The Company expects to fund the stock repurchase with cash from operations. "We continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and that our share repurchase program builds value for shareholders," said Howard Levine, Chairman and CEO. The Company initiated its share repurchase program in October 2002. During the fiscal year ending September 1, 2007, the Company purchased in the open market approximately 8.2 million shares of the Company's common stock at a cost of about $257.5 million. In September 2007, the Company purchased the remaining 2.9 million shares available under previous authorizations. Family Dollar also announced that the Company's Board of Directors had declared a regular quarterly cash dividend on the Company's Common Stock of $.11-1/2 per share, payable January 15, 2008, to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 14, 2007. About Family Dollar Operating small store locations, Family Dollar is one of the fastest growing discount retail chains in the United States. Family Dollar offers a core assortment of name-brand and quality consumable merchandise supplemented by fashion and seasonal merchandise at everyday low prices. Beginning with one store in 1959 in Charlotte, North Carolina, the Company currently operates more than 6,400 stores in 44 states. Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, is based in Matthews, North Carolina, just outside of Charlotte and is a publicly held company with common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol FDO. For more information, please visit www.familydollar.com. CONTACT: Family Dollar Stores, Inc. INVESTOR CONTACT: Kiley F. Rawlins, CFA, 704-849-7496 krawlins@familydollar.com or MEDIA CONTACT: Josh Braverman, 704-814-3447 jbraverman@familydollar.com


