FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20081014060112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Employment Agreements with Howard R. Levine and R. James Kelly.
 
Effective October 7, 2008, Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") entered into new employment agreements with Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Howard R. Levine, (the "Levine Agreement"), and President and Chief Operating Officer R. James Kelly, (the "Kelly Agreement," and together with the Levine Agreement, the "Employment Agreements"). The Employment Agreements replace the prior employment agreements between the Company and each of Messrs. Levine and Kelly. The Employment Agreements are materially consistent with the prior employment agreements except for the terms of severance.
 
The Employment Agreements provide that, in the event of termination without Cause or due to death or Disability (as such terms are defined in the Employment Agreements), Messrs. Levine and Kelly are entitled to receive severance payments equal to a multiple of their base monthly salary at the time of termination, plus a pro-rata payment of the annual cash bonus payable under the Company's 2006 Incentive Plan Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards (the "Cash Bonus Awards Guidelines") for the fiscal year in which termination occurs. The multiple in that case is thirty (30) months for payments to Mr. Levine and twenty-four (24) months for payments to Mr. Kelly.  The severance payment will be reduced by compensation in other employment and by any disability or life insurance benefits.  The Employment Agreements also provide that, in the event of a Change in Control of the Company and a termination without Cause or for Good Reason within twenty-four (24) months of such Change in Control (as such terms are defined in the Employment Agreements), Messrs. Levine and Kelly will receive a lump sum severance payment equal to a multiple times the sum of their highest base monthly salary during the period beginning immediately prior to the Change in Control through the termination of employment and the monthly equivalent of an annual cash bonus award equal to the average bonus paid in the preceding three fiscal years. The multiple in that case is thirty-six (36) months for payments to Mr. Levine and thirty (30) months for payments to Mr. Kelly. The Company will also continue to provide health benefits for the executive and his dependents for up to eighteen (18) months after termination. The Employment Agreements contain certain non-compete, non-solicitation and non-disparagement provisions.
 
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the terms of the Employment Agreements, and reference is made to the complete text of each Agreement which in the case of the Levine Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, and in the case of the Kelly Agreement, is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2. The Employment Agreements are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Severance Agreements with Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents
 
At an October 7, 2008 meeting, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Compensation Committee") approved the form of a Severance Agreement to be entered into between the Company and its officers holding the title of Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President (the "Severance Agreement"). The Severance Agreements for all of such officers are substantially the same except for the terms of the length of the severance payments. The Severance Agreement with Executive Vice Presidents provides that, in the event of termination without Cause or due to death or Disability (as such terms are defined in the Severance Agreement), the Executive Vice Presidents shall be entitled to receive severance payments equal to twenty-four (24) months times their current base monthly salary at the time of termination, plus a pro-rata payment of the annual cash bonus payable under the Cash Bonus Awards Guidelines for the fiscal year in which termination occurs.  The severance payment will be reduced by compensation in other employment and by any disability or life insurance benefits.  In the event of a Change in Control of the Company and a termination without Cause or for Good Reason within
twenty-four months of such Change in Control (as such terms are defined in the Severance Agreement), Executive Vice Presidents shall be entitled to receive a lump sum severance payment equal to twenty-four (24) months times the sum of their highest base monthly salary during the period beginning immediately prior to the Change in Control through the termination of employment and the monthly equivalent of an annual cash bonus award equal to the average bonus paid in the preceding three fiscal years. The Severance Agreements with the Senior Vice Presidents contain the same terms but provide for a multiple of twelve (12) month of severance payments on a termination without Cause or due to death or Disability and a multiple of eighteen (18) months of severance payments on a qualifying termination following a Change in Control. The Company will also continue to provide health benefits for the executive and his or her dependents for up to eighteen (18) months after termination. The Severance Agreements contain certain non-compete, non-solicitation and non-disparagement provisions.
 
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the terms of the Severance Agreements, and reference is made to the complete text of the Form of Severance Agreement for Executive Vice Presidents attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and the Form of Severance Agreement for Senior Vice Presidents attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4. The Forms of Severance Agreement for Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Fiscal 2009 Compensation of Named Executive Officers
 
At its meeting held on October 7, 2008, the Compensation Committee approved annual compensation packages for the Company's principal executive officer ("PEO"), principal financial officer ("PFO") and the three most highly compensated executive officers other than the PEO and PFO who were serving as executive officers of the Company at the end of the Company's fiscal year ended August 30, 2008 (collectively, "named executive officers"), as follows:
 
 
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the compensation terms of the named executive officers and reference is made to the following Company plans with respect to various aspects of the compensation packages awarded to each named executive officer:  (i) Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10 to the Company's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 22, 2008); (ii) Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to this filing); (iii) Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 25, 2006); and (iv) the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to this filing). Reference is also made to (i) the Employment Agreements between the Company and Messrs. Levine and Kelly, which are filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to this filing.
Guidelines for Long-Term Incentive Performance Share Rights Awards
2006 Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant Program
Amendment of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards and 2006 Incentive Plan Guidelines for Long-Term Incentive Performance Share Rights Awards
 
At its meeting held on October 7, 2008, the Compensation Committee amended the Cash Bonus Awards Guidelines, which were adopted pursuant to the Company's 2006 Incentive Plan. The Cash Bonus Award Guidelines provide eligible employees of the Company with the opportunity to earn annual incentive compensation in the form of a cash bonus equal to a percentage of such employees' base salary (the "Target Bonus"), contingent upon the Company's achievement of pre-tax earnings goals.
 
The Cash Bonus Award Guidelines were amended to require that the payment of any awards under the Guidelines be "self-funding" by requiring that pre-tax income goals must be achieved on a GAAP basis, including the accrual of applicable bonus payments, before any payment is made pursuant to the Guidelines.
 
The 2006 Incentive Plan Guidelines for Long-Term Incentive Performance Share Rights Awards (the "PSR Guidelines") have also been amended to ensure compliance with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
 
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the Cash Bonus Award Guidelines or the PSR Guidelines and reference is made to the complete text of the Cash Bonus Award Guidelines which are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.6 and the PSR Guidelines which are attached as Exhibit 10.5, both of which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) 
Exhibits
 
10.1  Employment Agreement dated October 7, 2008, between the Company and Howard R. Levine
10.2  Employment Agreement dated October 7, 2008, between the Company and R. James Kelly
10.3  Form of Severance Agreement for Executive Vice Presidents
10.4  Form of Severance Agreement for Senior Vice Presidents
10.5  2006 Incentive Plan Guidelines for Long-Term Incentive Performance Share Rights Awards
10.6  2006 Incentive Plan Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
This Employment Agreement (this "Agreement") is effective this 7th day of October, 2008 (the "Date of this Agreement"), by and between HOWARD LEVINE ("Employee") and Family Dollar Stores, Inc., and its successors, subsidiaries and affiliated companies (collectively, the "Company").  For and in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and Employee, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree and covenant as follows.
 
  Employee and the Company recite the following:
1.
            
Recitals.
 
A.            Employee has heretofore been employed by the Company in a position of senior management up to and through the Date of this Agreement, pursuant to a contract of employment, dated August 18, 2005, as amended by agreement dated August 17, 2006 (as amended, the "Previous Employment Agreement"), and, understanding and accepting the terms and conditions of Employee's employment as set forth herein, desires to continue to be employed by the Company in such modified capacity, and under the terms and restrictions as set forth herein.
 
B.            The Company desires to obtain the agreement of Employee to certain restrictive covenants and other provisions as set forth herein in exchange for Employee's receipt of good and valuable consideration to which Employee was not previously entitled, including without limitation: (i) the Company's agreement to provide certain severance payments as described herein, (ii) an increase in Employee's rate of base salary effective as of September 7, 2008, (iii) an award opportunity under the Company's Incentive Bonus Plan for the fiscal year beginning August 31, 2008, (iv) an award of Performance Share Rights under the 2006 Incentive Plan for the 3-year performance period commencing August 31, 2008, and (v) an award of stock options under the 2006 Incentive Plan with a grant date of October 7, 2008.
 
C.            Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement, the Company and Employee agree that Employee's employment with the Company is "at will" and may be terminated at any time with or without "Cause" without any liability or obligation of the Company except as expressly set forth herein.
 
D.            This Agreement revokes and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous employment agreements, representations, promises and understandings, whether written or oral, between the parties, including without limitation the Previous Employment Agreement between Employee and the Company.
 
  When used in this Agreement the following terms and provisions shall have the meanings set forth herein:
2.
            
Definitions.
 
A.            "Cause"   i.  At any time after a Change in Control, Cause means any of the following acts by Employee, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company:  (a) gross neglect of duty, (b) prolonged absence from duty without
the consent of the Company, (c) intentionally engaging in any activity that is in conflict with or adverse to the business, reputation or other interests of the Company, or (d) willful misconduct, misfeasance or malfeasance of duty which is reasonably determined to be detrimental to the Company. The determination of the Compensation Committee as to the existence of "Cause" shall be conclusive on Employee and the Company.
 
ii.             At any time prior to a Change in Control, Cause means any of the following: (a) conviction of a felony, any act involving moral turpitude, or a misdemeanor where imprisonment is imposed, (b) commission of any act of theft, fraud, dishonesty, or falsification of any employment or Company records, (c) improper disclosure of the Company's confidential or proprietary information, (d) Employee's failure to comply with reasonable written directives of the Chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors of the Company, (e) a course of conduct amounting to gross incompetence, (f) chronic and unexcused absenteeism, or (g) misconduct in connection with the performance of any of Employee's duties, including, without limitation, misappropriation of funds or property of the Company, securing or attempting to secure personally any profit in connection with any transaction entered into on behalf of the Company, misrepresentation to the Company, or any violation of law or regulations on Company premises or to which the Company is subject.
 
B.            "Change in Control"  Change in Control shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(f) of the 2006 Incentive Plan; , , that to the extent applicable under Section 409A of the Code, for purposes of paying certain severance payments within 24 months after a Change in Control under Paragraph 4 below, Change in Control shall have the same meaning as set forth in any regulations, revenue procedure, revenue rulings or other pronouncements issued by the Secretary of the United States Treasury pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.
provided
however
 
C.            "Code"  Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and includes a reference to the underlying final regulations.
 
D.            "Company's Business"  The Company's Business means the operation of multi-merchandise retail stores, the majority of which stores each have 25,000 square feet or less of total selling space, and that sell, or offer for sale, low-cost, basic merchandise for family and home needs, including perishable and non-perishable goods.
 
E.             "Competitive Position"  Competitive Position means any employment with or activity or service performed for a Competitor (whether as owner, member, manager, lender, partner, shareholder, member, consultant, agent, employee, co-venturer or otherwise) in which (i) Employee will use or could reasonably be expected to use any Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets of the Company for the benefit of a Competitor in competition with the Company; or (ii) Employee will hold a position, have duties, or perform services for such Competitor that is or are the same as or substantially similar to Employee's position with, duties for, or services actually performed for the Company during Employee's employment with the Company.
 
F.             "Competitor"  Competitor means (i) any person or entity whose business is the same as or substantially similar to the Company's Business; (ii) any person or entity who
owns or operates multi-merchandise retail stores that each have 25,000 square feet, or less, of total selling space, and that sell, or offer for sale, merchandise that is the same as or substantially similar to merchandise sold or offered for sale by the Company; or (iii) any person or entity who plans to own or operate multi-merchandise retail stores that have 25,000 square feet, or less, of total selling space, and that will sell, or offer for sale, merchandise that is the same as or substantially similar to merchandise sold or offered for sale by the Company.
 
G.            "Confidential Company Information"  Confidential Company Information means, unless otherwise available to the public, (i) any and all information relating to the Company's methods of operation, source of merchandise supply, organizational details, personnel information, marketing plans, business plans, strategic plans, forecasts, or financial information or data; (ii) any and all information relating to the Company's real estate activities including, but not limited to, landlords, prospective landlords, and lease data; (iii) the specific terms of the Company's agreements or arrangements with any officers, directors, employees, vendors, suppliers, or any other entity with which the Company may be affiliated from time to time, including, but not limited to, the value of any consideration provided or received by the Company or the expiration date of any such agreement or arrangement; and (iv) any and all information of a technical or proprietary nature developed by or acquired by the Company or made available to the Company and its employees by vendors, suppliers, contractors, or other employees of the Company, on a confidential basis, including, but not limited to, ideas, concepts, designs, specifications, prototypes, techniques, technical data or know-how, formulae, methods, research and development, and inventions, as such Confidential Company Information may exist from time to time and whether in electronic, print or other form and all copies, notes, or other reproductions thereof.
 
H.            "Disability" Disability shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(m) of the 2006 Incentive Plan.
 
I.              "Employee's Termination Date"  Employee's Termination Date means the date of Employee's termination of employment with the Company, regardless of:  (i) the date, cause, or manner of such termination of employment; (ii) whether such termination is with or without Cause or is a result of Employee's resignation; or (iii) whether the Company provides severance benefits to Employee under this Agreement.
 
J.             "Good Reason"  Good Reason means any of the following acts by the Company, without the consent of Employee (in each case, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by Employee): (i) a reduction by the Company in Employee's base salary; (ii) a direct or indirect material reduction by the Company in Employee's aggregate annual and long-term incentive compensation opportunities, such as through a reduction in target or maximum award opportunities, a change in the performance goals or formulas for earning awards resulting in a material increase in the degree of difficulty of achieving target performance, or similar changes; (iii) a material reduction in Employee's position, duties and responsibilities, assignment to duties inconsistent with such position or material adverse change in reporting relationships, (iv) with respect to an employee who is stationed at the Company's headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina, or in Matthews, North Carolina, the Company requiring Employee, without his or her consent, to be based at any office
or location more than 35 miles from the location at which Employee was stationed immediately prior to a Change in Control, or (v) the continuing material breach by the Company of any employment agreement between Employee and the Company after the expiration of any applicable period for cure.
 
K.            "Incentive Bonus Plan"  Incentive Bonus Plan means the annual cash incentive bonus plan established pursuant to the Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus adopted under the 2006 Incentive Plan.
 
L.             "Restricted Territory"  Restricted Territory means any state in the United States of America, or any state in Mexico, in which (i) the Company is conducting the Company's Business on Employee's Termination Date, or (ii) the Company is planning to conduct the Company's Business on Employee's Termination Date and Employee has knowledge, or should have knowledge, of such Company plans.
 
M.           "Target Bonus"  Target Bonus means Employee's "target bonus" for the applicable fiscal year within the meaning of Section 4 of the Incentive Bonus Plan.
 
N.            "Trade Secret"  Trade Secret of the Company means any item of Confidential Company Information that constitutes a trade secret under the common law or statutory law of the State of North Carolina, namely N.C. Gen. Stat.  66-152 , but such definition of "Trade Secret" shall not alter either the Company's rights or Employee's obligations under any state or federal statutory or common law regarding trade secrets and unfair trade practices.
et seq.
 
O.            "2006 Incentive Plan"  2006 Incentive Plan means the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan, as in effect from time to time.
 
  The Company hereby continues the employment of Employee, in such modified capacity, and under the terms, conditions  and restrictions as set forth herein, effective as of the Date of this Agreement, and Employee hereby accepts such employment.
3.
            
Employment.
 
  Employee shall be employed as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and shall perform such reasonable duties and responsibilities as the Board of Directors of the Company may, from time to time, assign to Employee.  Employee agrees to accept this employment and to devote his full time and attention and his best efforts, ability and fidelity to the performance of the duties attaching to such employment.  In addition, Employee shall serve as a director and officer of the Company or any of its constituent entities, if appropriately elected.  During the period of his employment, Employee shall not, for remuneration or profit, directly or indirectly, render any service to, or undertake any employment for, any other person, firm or corporation, whether in an advisory or consulting capacity or otherwise, without first obtaining the written consent of the Company.
4.
            
Position, Duties and Responsibilities.
5.
            
Compensation.
 
In consideration of the services to be rendered by Employee pursuant to this Agreement, the Company shall pay, or cause to be paid, to Employee a weekly base salary as established by the Board of Directors of the Company.  The base salary shall be reviewed annually by the Board in connection with its annual review of executive compensation, unless Employee's employment shall have been terminated earlier pursuant to the Agreements, to determine if such base salary should be increased for the following year in recognition of services to the Company and shall initially be set at a rate not less than Employee's current annual salary.  The salary shall be payable at such intervals in conformity with the Company's prevailing practice as such practice shall be established or modified from time to time.
A.
           
 
In addition, Employee shall be entitled to:
B.
           
 
i.              Participate in the Company's Incentive Bonus Plan, as it may be amended or modified in any respect, including achievement of established goals, as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.  Employee acknowledges that he has received a copy of the form of the Incentive Bonus Plan and related guidelines for the operation of such Plan and is familiar with the terms and conditions thereof.  Nothing contained herein shall limit the Company's right to alter, amend or terminate the Incentive Bonus Plan at any time for any reason.
 
ii.             Employee shall be entitled to participate in any group life insurance plan, group health and accident plan, vacation plan, and retirement plan or other benefit plan or arrangement which the Company has or may from time to time hereafter establish for the benefit of its employees upon Employee's complying with all Company policies regarding participation in any such plan or arrangement, r that such participation by Employee must be permissible under such plan or arrangement and able to be implemented without inordinate expense
provided
howeve
 
iii.            Additional benefits and/or compensation in such form and in such manner and at such times as the Board of Directors of the Company, in the exercise of its absolute discretion, shall determine, and/or as otherwise provided by the Company, consistent with benefits and/or compensation currently provided to Company employees in similar positions.
 
The Company shall withhold all appropriate income and employment taxes from any compensation or other payments otherwise due to Employee hereunder.
C.
           
 
Employee shall have the use of the company's airplane(s) for any and all business related travel.  In addition, in recognition of the personal security, safety and efficiency issues associated with the use of alternative transportation, Employee shall have the non-exclusive right to use of the company's airplane(s) for personal travel for himself and/or his family and guests with such limits and/or conditions as may be annually reviewed and established by the Compensation Committee; provided that the Company shall impute income to Employee as taxable compensation as required by Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
D.
           
with respect to such usage and further provided that the Company is under no obligation to increase its number of airplanes or to charter additional airplanes for this purpose.
 
 Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 8 and 11 hereunder, in the event of Employee's termination by the Company without Cause or due to Employee's Disability or death, in each case prior to a Change in Control, the Company shall provide Employee with the following severance benefits:
6.
            
Severance Upon Termination without Cause Prior to a Change in Control. 
 
(i)            The Company shall continue the payment of Employee's base salary in effect on the date of such termination of employment for a period of thirty (30) months.  Such salary continuation payments shall be paid in a series of substantially equal installments in accordance with the regular payroll practices of the Company as in effect as of the date of termination over said period, commencing as soon as administratively practicable, but in no event more than sixty (60) days, following the Participant's date of termination of employment (except as otherwise required by Paragraph 17).  Such salary continuation payments shall not be considered eligible compensation under any of the Company's employee benefit plans.
 
(ii)           If Employee's date of termination of employment is after the end of the Company's fiscal year but prior to the payment date of any bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan for such fiscal year, the Company shall pay Employee the portion of the Target Bonus earned by Employee for such fiscal year according to the terms of the Incentive Bonus Plan (i.e., based on the Company's applicable performance level), without regard to any requirement in the Incentive Bonus Plan otherwise requiring Employee to remain employed through the bonus payment date.  In addition, Employee shall be eligible to receive a pro rated bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan for the fiscal year of the Company in which such termination of employment occurs, without regard to any requirement in the Incentive Bonus Plan otherwise requiring Employee to remain employed through the bonus payment date, based on the number of completed weeks during the applicable fiscal year through the date of termination of employment and further based on the Company's applicable performance level for the fiscal year.  Any such payment shall be made to Employee at the same time the Company makes payments to other participants in the Incentive Bonus Plan.
 
(iii)          For the number of months set forth in clause (i) above after Employee's date of termination of employment, but not to exceed 18 months, the Company shall continue to provide health insurance coverage and benefits to Employee and Employee's dependents as if Employee's employment had not been terminated, including but not limited to the provision of the Company's Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan (the "MERP"). Any period during which health benefits are continued pursuant to this Paragraph shall be considered to be in satisfaction of the Company's obligation to provide "continuation coverage" pursuant to Section 4980B of the Code, and the period of coverage required under said Section 4980B shall be reduced by the period during which health benefits were provided pursuant to this Paragraph.
 
Such payments and benefits provided by the Company to Employee as set forth in Paragraphs 6(i), (ii) and (iii) are herein called "Termination Compensation."  Such Termination Compensation shall be reduced, in whole or in part, by: (x) all other salary, bonus, consulting fees or other compensation received by or payable to Employee for services rendered in any capacity to any third party during the period that such Termination Compensation is paid; (y) all disability or life insurance payments made pursuant to disability or life insurance policies provided by and paid for by the Company to Employee and which payments are received during the period that such Termination Compensation is paid; and (z) comparable health insurance coverage actually received by Employee for services rendered in any capacity to any third party during the period that such Termination Compensation is paid.  Employee agrees to pursue reasonable, good faith efforts to obtain other employment in a position suitable to Employee's background and experience. Moreover, Employee agrees to notify the Company within three business days of obtaining other employment during the time period in which Employee is receiving Termination Compensation.  Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, Employee's Termination Compensation shall be subject to forfeiture as set forth below in Paragraphs 8 and 11.
 
In the event of a Change in Control and a termination of Employee's employment within 24 months after such Change in Control either by the Company without Cause or by Employee for Good Reason, the Company shall provide Employee with the following severance benefits:
7.
            
Severance Payable in connection with a Change in Control. 
 
(i)            The Company shall pay to Employee in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the date of such termination of employment an amount equal to the product of (x) thirty-six (36) months and (y) the sum of (A) Employee's monthly base salary at the highest rate in effect during the period beginning immediately prior to the Change in Control through the date of Employee's termination of employment and (B) the monthly equivalent of the average of the bonuses, if any, paid or payable to Employee under the Incentive Bonus Plan for each of the three (3) fiscal years preceding the fiscal year in which Employee's termination of employment occurs (or such fewer number of fiscal years for which Employee was eligible to receive a bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan).
 
(ii)           For the number of months represented by the multiple set forth in clause (i) (x) above after Employee's date of termination of employment, but not to exceed 18 months, the Company shall continue to provide health insurance coverage and benefits to Employee and Employee's dependents as if Employee's employment had not been terminated, including but not limited to the provision of the Company's Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan (the "MERP"). Any period during which health benefits are continued pursuant to this Paragraph shall be considered to be in satisfaction of the Company's obligation to provide "continuation coverage" pursuant to Section 4980B of the Code, and the period of coverage required under said Section 4980B shall be reduced by the period during which health benefits were provided pursuant to this Paragraph.  Such health insurance coverage shall be subject to offset as provided in Paragraph 3 above for comparable coverage received by Employee from a third party during the continuation period.
Employee's right in connection with or following a Change in Control to receive a pro rata bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan or any other incentive compensation program under the 2006 Incentive Plan shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 15.7 of the 2006 Incentive Plan.
 
 Employee and the Company understand and agree that the purpose of the provisions of this Paragraph 8 is to protect the legitimate business interests of the Company, especially within the multi-merchandise retail industry, in light of Employee's leadership position with the Company and exposure and access to Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets.  Employee and the Company further agree and understand that the multi-merchandise retail industry and the Company's Business are national in scope and that the Company has plans to expand the Company's Business internationally.  Employee acknowledges that the employment and post-employment restrictions set forth in this Paragraph 8 are therefore reasonable in that these restrictions are limited to the multi-merchandise retail industry and to the legitimate protection of the Company's Business, and that they do not, and will not, unduly impair Employee's ability to earn a living during or after Employee's employment with the Company.  As a result of Employee's educational background, prior work experience, and Employee's employment and position with the Company, Employee possesses general skills and knowledge enabling Employee, if need be, to pursue profitable work in businesses not competitive with the Company's Business.
8.
            
Restrictive Covenants; Non-Disclosure Obligations; Forfeiture of Termination Compensation.
 
Therefore, in consideration of good and valuable consideration to which Employee was not previously entitled, including, without limitation, as is set forth in Paragraph 1.B above, Employee agrees as follows:
 
Covenant Not to Compete.
A.
           
 
i.              Employee agrees that during Employee's employment with the Company and for the period of twelve (12) months immediately following Employee's Termination Date (such period not to include any period(s) of violation or period(s) of time required for litigation to enforce the provisions of this Paragraph 8.A(i)) (the "Restricted Period"), Employee shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, directly or indirectly, accept, obtain, or hold a Competitive Position within the Restricted Territory with a Competitor.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 8.A(i) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
 
ii.             Employee agrees that in the event Employee, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly accepts, obtains, or holds a Competitive Position within the Restricted Territory with a Competitor during the period between the expiration date of the Restricted Period and the date of the Company's final payment to Employee of any Termination Compensation under this Agreement (the "Concluding Compensation Period"), the Company shall be entitled to terminate any compensation, benefits, and/or remaining payments of the Termination Compensation otherwise payable to Employee under this Agreement and Employee forfeits such Termination Compensation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 8.A(ii) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
iii.            Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employee may, as a passive investor, own capital stock of a publicly held corporation, which is actively traded in the over-the-counter market or is listed and traded on a national securities exchange, which constitutes or is affiliated with a Competitor, so long as Employee's ownership is not in excess of five percent (5%) of the total outstanding capital stock of the Competitor.
 
Non-Solicitation of Company Employees.
B.
           
 
i.              Employee understands and agrees that the relationship between the Company and each of its employees constitutes a valuable asset of the Company and may not be converted to Employee's own use or benefit, or for the use or benefit of any other third party.  Accordingly, Employee hereby agrees that during Employee's employment and during the Restricted Period, Employee shall not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, (A) solicit or recruit for employment; hire; attempt to solicit or recruit for employment; attempt to hire; or accept as an employee, consultant, contractor, or otherwise, any Company employee, or (B) urge; encourage; induce; or attempt to urge, encourage, or induce, any Company employee to terminate his or her employment with Company; or (C) otherwise interfere with the Company's relationship with any Company employee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 8.B(i) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
 
ii.             Employee agrees that in the event Employee, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, (A) solicits or recruits for employment; hires; attempts to solicit or recruit for employment; attempts to hire; or accepts as an employee, consultant, contractor, or otherwise, any Company employee, or (B) urges; encourages; induces; or attempts to urge, encourage, or induce, any Company employee to terminate his or her employment with Company; or (C) otherwise interferes with the Company's relationship with any Company employee during the Concluding Compensation Period, the Company shall be entitled to terminate any compensation, benefits, and/or remaining payments of the Termination Compensation otherwise payable to Employee under this Agreement and Employee forfeits such Termination Compensation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 8.B(ii) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
 
.  Employee recognizes and acknowledges that during the course of Employee's employment, the Company has provided and will continue to provide Employee with exposure and access to Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets of the Company, or confidential information belonging to other third parties who may have furnished such information to the Company under obligations of confidentiality.  Employee, therefore, agrees that during Employee's employment with the Company and at all times after Employee's Termination Date, Employee shall not disclose any such Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets, or other information subject to an obligation of the Company to keep confidential, to any third party not employed by or otherwise expressly affiliated with the Company for any reason or purpose whatsoever, and shall not use such Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets except on behalf of the Company.
C.
           
Non-Disclosure of Confidential Company Information; Trade Secret Protections
D.            E.  Employee acknowledges and agrees that (i) the restrictive covenants in this Paragraph 8 are reasonable in time, territory and scope, and in all other respects; (ii) should any part or provision of any covenant be held invalid, void or unenforceable in any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity, voidness, or unenforceability shall not render invalid, void or unenforceable any other part or provision of this Agreement; and (iii) if any portion of the foregoing provisions is found to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction because its duration, territory, definition of activities or definition of information covered is considered to be invalid or unreasonable in scope, the invalid or unreasonable terms shall be redefined, or a new enforceable term provided, such that the intent of the Company and Employee in agreeing to the provisions of this Agreement will not be impaired and the provision in question shall be enforceable to the fullest extent of the applicable laws.  The restrictive covenants contained herein shall be construed as agreements independent of any other provision in this Agreement and the existence of any claim or cause of action of Employee against the Company, whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of this restrictive covenant.  Any decision in one state or jurisdiction invalidating or holding unenforceable any provision of this Paragraph 8 shall not be binding in any other state or jurisdiction.
mployee Acknowledgement
 
9.
            
Other Post-Termination Covenants.
 
A.            Employee agrees that Employee shall resign and does resign from all positions as an officer and director of the Company and from any other positions, with such resignations to be effective upon Employee's Termination Date.
 
B.            Upon Employee's Termination Date, Employee agrees not to make any statements to the Company's employees, customers, vendors, or suppliers or to any public or media source, whether written or oral, regarding Employee's employment or termination from the Company's employment, except as may be approved in writing by an executive officer of the Company in advance.  Employee further agrees not to make any statement (including to any media source, or to the Company's suppliers, customers or employees) or take any action that would disrupt, impair, embarrass, harm or affect adversely the Company or any of the employees, officers, directors, or customers of the Company or place the Company or such individuals in any negative light.
 
C.            Following Employee's Termination Date, Employee covenants to render further advice and assistance to the Company as may be required from time to time, and to provide all information available to Employee on matters handled by and through Employee while employed by the Company or of which Employee has personal knowledge, and by making available to the Company at reasonable times and circumstances, upon request by the Company, information pertinent to its operations in Employee's possession; and, to the extent that it is necessary, to cooperate with and assist the Company to conclude any matters that are pending and which may require Employee's assistance; provided, that he shall be paid reasonable compensation by the Company in the event Employee is required to expend time in the performance of such services; and provided further, that Employee may perform such services in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere with other employment obtained by Employee.  Employee shall be reimbursed for any expenses incurred by Employee in the performance of the covenants herein set forth in this Paragraph 9.C.
D.            In addition, Employee agrees to cooperate with and provide assistance to the Company and its legal counsel in connection with any litigation (including arbitration or administrative hearings) or investigation affecting the Company, in which, in the reasonable judgment of the Company's counsel, Employee's assistance or cooperation is needed.  Employee shall, when requested by the Company, provide testimony or other assistance and shall travel at the Company's request in order to fulfill this obligation.  In connection with such litigation or investigation, the Company shall attempt to accommodate Employee's schedule, shall reimburse Employee (unless prohibited by law) for any actual loss of wages in connection therewith, shall provide Employee with reasonable notice in advance of the times in which Employee's cooperation or assistance is needed, and shall reimburse Employee for any reasonable expenses incurred in connection with such matters.
 
  Upon Employee's Termination Date, Employee shall, as soon as possible but no later than two (2) days from Employee's Termination Date, surrender to the Company all Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets in Employee's possession and return to the Company all Company property in Employee's possession or control, including but not limited to, all paper records and documents, computer disks and access cards and keys to any Company facilities.
10.
          
Delivery of Property upon Termination.
 
  Because Employee's services to the Company are special and unique and because Employee has been exposed to and has had access to Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets, Employee and the Company agree that any breach or threatened breach of the provisions of Paragraphs 8.A(i), 8.B(i), 8.C, and 9 would cause irreparable injury to the Company and that money damages would not provide an adequate remedy to the Company.  In the event of a breach or threatened breach of Paragraphs 8.A(i), 8.B(i), 8.C, or 9 of this Agreement, the Company or its successors or assigns may, in addition to any other rights and remedies existing in their favor, apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for specific performance; temporary, preliminary, and permanent injunctive relief; expedited discovery; or other equitable relief in order to enforce or prevent any violations of any such provisions (without posting a bond or other security).  The Company shall be specifically entitled to an injunction restraining Employee from disclosing any Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets, and, further, from accepting or continuing any employment with or rendering any services, or continuing to render services, to any such third-party to whom any Confidential Company Information or Trade Secret has been disclosed or is threatened to be disclosed by Employee.
11.
          
Enforcement of Restrictions in Paragraphs 8 and 9.
 
In addition to the foregoing and not in any way in limitation thereof, or in limitation of any right or remedy otherwise available to the Company, if Employee violates any provision of Paragraphs 8.A(i), 8.B(i), 8.C, and 9 of this Agreement: (i) any compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation then or thereafter due from the Company to Employee shall be terminated forthwith; (ii) the Company's obligation to pay or provide and Employee's right to receive such compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation shall terminate and be of no further force or effect; and (iii) upon demand by the Company, Employee shall repay to the Company any such compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation previously paid by the Company because of not being informed or aware of Employee's violation of a provision of Paragraphs 8.A(i), 8.B(i), 8.C, or 9 of this Agreement; in each case without limiting or affecting Employee's obligations under such Paragraphs 8.A(i), 8.B(i), 8.C, or 9 or the Company's other
rights and remedies available at law or in equity, and provided that at least $20,000 of such compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation shall be retained by Employee representing the consideration Employee received in exchange for Employee's release and waiver of rights or claims under Paragraph 12 of this Agreement.
 
W.  In consideration for the payments and benefits provided and to be provided hereunder, Employee agrees that Employee will, upon termination of employment and as a condition to the Company's obligation to pay any severance benefits under this Agreement, deliver to the Company a fully executed release agreement substantially in a form then used by and agreeable to the Company and which shall fully and irrevocably release and discharge the Company, its directors, officers, and employees from any and all claims, charges, complaints, liabilities of any kind, known or unknown, owed to Employee.
12.
          
aiver and Release
 
.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of any successor to or assignee of the Company, and Employee specifically agrees on demand to execute any and all necessary documents in connection with the performance of this Agreement.  No waiver by either party of any breach by the other of any provision hereof shall be deemed to be a waiver of any later or other breach thereof or as a waiver of any such or other provision of this Agreement.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared invalid or unenforceable as a matter of law, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement or of the remainder of this Agreement as a whole.
13.
          
Special Provisions
 
  This Agreement sets forth all of the terms of the understanding between the parties with reference to the subject matter set forth herein and may not be waived, changed, discharged or terminated orally or by any course of dealing between the parties, but only by an instrument in writing signed by the party against whom any waiver, change, discharge or termination is sought.  This Agreement revokes and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements, representations, promises and understandings, whether written or oral, between the parties, including without limitation the previous Employment Agreement between Employee and the Company dated August 18, 2005, as amended by agreement dated August 17, 2006.
14.
          
Complete Agreement.
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of North Carolina without regard to its choice of law or conflict of law principles.  Employee hereby expressly and irrevocably consentsto the venue and jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina, or any state court in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
15.
          
Choice of Law; Consent to Jurisdiction. 
 
.  All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered, if mailed by registered, certified or express mail, postage prepaid, or if delivered to a recognized courier service, addressed to Employee at the address shown on the Company's records for tax reporting purposes or to the Company as follows (or in either case to such other address as one party shall give the other in the manner provided herein):
16.
          
Notices
 
  This Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A, to the extent applicable.  Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, this Agreement shall be interpreted, operated and administered consistent with this intent.  Each separate installment under this Agreement shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of determining whether such payment is subject to or exempt from compliance with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  In addition, in the event that Employee is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code (as determined in accordance with the methodology established by the Company as in effect on the date of termination of Employee's employment), any payment or benefits hereunder that are nonqualified deferred compensation subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code shall be provided to Employee no earlier than six (6) months after the date of Employee's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
17.
          
Compliance with Code Section 409A.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
This Employment Agreement (this "Agreement") is effective this 7th day of October, 2008 (the "Date of this Agreement"), by and between R. JAMES KELLY ("Employee") and Family Dollar Stores, Inc., and its successors, subsidiaries and affiliated companies (collectively, the "Company").  For and in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and Employee, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree and covenant as follows.
 
  Employee and the Company recite the following:
1.
            
Recitals.
 
Employee has heretofore been employed by the Company in a position of senior management up to and through the Date of this Agreement, pursuant to a contract of employment, dated August 18, 2005, as amended by agreement dated August 17, 2006 (as amended, the "Previous Employment Agreement"), and, understanding and accepting the terms and conditions of Employee's employment as set forth herein, desires to continue to be employed by the Company in such modified capacity, and under the terms and restrictions as set forth herein.
A.
           
 
The Company desires to obtain the agreement of Employee to certain restrictive covenants and other provisions as set forth herein in exchange for Employee's receipt of good and valuable consideration to which Employee was not previously entitled, including without limitation: (i) the Company's agreement to provide certain severance payments as described herein, (ii) an increase in Employee's rate of base salary effective as of September 7, 2008, (iii) an award opportunity under the Company's Incentive Bonus Plan for the fiscal year beginning August 31, 2008, (iv) an award of Performance Share Rights under the 2006 Incentive Plan for the 3-year performance period commencing August 31, 2008, and (v) an award of stock options under the 2006 Incentive Plan with a grant date of October 7, 2008.
B.
           
 
Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement, the Company and Employee agree that Employee's employment with the Company is "at will" and may be terminated at any time with or without "Cause" without any liability or obligation of the Company except as expressly set forth herein.
C.
           
 
This Agreement revokes and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous employment agreements, representations, promises and understandings, whether written or oral, between the parties, including without limitation the Previous Employment Agreement between Employee and the Company.
D.
           
 
  When used in this Agreement the following terms and provisions shall have the meanings set forth herein:
2.
            
Definitions.
 
"Cause"   i.  At any time after a Change in Control, Cause means any of the following acts by Employee, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company:  (a) gross neglect of duty, (b) prolonged absence from duty without
A.
           
 
 
the consent of the Company, (c) intentionally engaging in any activity that is in conflict with or adverse to the business, reputation or other interests of the Company, or (d) willful misconduct, misfeasance or malfeasance of duty which is reasonably determined to be detrimental to the Company. The determination of the Compensation Committee as to the existence of "Cause" shall be conclusive on Employee and the Company.
 
At any time prior to a Change in Control, Cause means any of the following: (a) conviction of a felony, any act involving moral turpitude, or a misdemeanor where imprisonment is imposed, (b) commission of any act of theft, fraud, dishonesty, or falsification of any employment or Company records, (c) improper disclosure of the Company's confidential or proprietary information, (d) Employee's failure to comply with reasonable written directives of the Chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors of the Company, (e) a course of conduct amounting to gross incompetence, (f) chronic and unexcused absenteeism, or (g) misconduct in connection with the performance of any of Employee's duties, including, without limitation, misappropriation of funds or property of the Company, securing or attempting to secure personally any profit in connection with any transaction entered into on behalf of the Company, misrepresentation to the Company, or any violation of law or regulations on Company premises or to which the Company is subject.
ii.
            
 
"Change in Control"  Change in Control shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(f) of the 2006 Incentive Plan; , , that to the extent applicable under Section 409A of the Code, for purposes of paying certain severance payments within 24 months after a Change in Control under Paragraph 4 below, Change in Control shall have the same meaning as set forth in any regulations, revenue procedure, revenue rulings or other pronouncements issued by the Secretary of the United States Treasury pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.
B.
           
provided
however
 
"Code"  Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and includes a reference to the underlying final regulations.
C.
           
 
"Company's Business"  The Company's Business means the operation of multi-merchandise retail stores, the majority of which stores each have 25,000 square feet or less of total selling space, and that sell, or offer for sale, low-cost, basic merchandise for family and home needs, including perishable and non-perishable goods.
D.
           
 
"Competitive Position"  Competitive Position means any employment with or activity or service performed for a Competitor (whether as owner, member, manager, lender, partner, shareholder, member, consultant, agent, employee, co-venturer or otherwise) in which (i) Employee will use or could reasonably be expected to use any Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets of the Company for the benefit of a Competitor in competition with the Company; or (ii) Employee will hold a position, have duties, or perform services for such Competitor that is or are the same as or substantially similar to Employee's position with, duties for, or services actually performed for the Company during Employee's employment with the Company.
E.
            
 
"Competitor"  Competitor means (i) any person or entity whose business is the same as or substantially similar to the Company's Business; (ii) any person or entity who
F.
            
 
owns or operates multi-merchandise retail stores that each have 25,000 square feet, or less, of total selling space, and that sell, or offer for sale, merchandise that is the same as or substantially similar to merchandise sold or offered for sale by the Company; or (iii) any person or entity who plans to own or operate multi-merchandise retail stores that have 25,000 square feet, or less, of total selling space, and that will sell, or offer for sale, merchandise that is the same as or substantially similar to merchandise sold or offered for sale by the Company.
 
"Confidential Company Information"  Confidential Company Information means, unless otherwise available to the public, (i) any and all information relating to the Company's methods of operation, source of merchandise supply, organizational details, personnel information, marketing plans, business plans, strategic plans, forecasts, or financial information or data; (ii) any and all information relating to the Company's real estate activities including, but not limited to, landlords, prospective landlords, and lease data; (iii) the specific terms of the Company's agreements or arrangements with any officers, directors, employees, vendors, suppliers, or any other entity with which the Company may be affiliated from time to time, including, but not limited to, the value of any consideration provided or received by the Company or the expiration date of any such agreement or arrangement; and (iv) any and all information of a technical or proprietary nature developed by or acquired by the Company or made available to the Company and its employees by vendors, suppliers, contractors, or other employees of the Company, on a confidential basis, including, but not limited to, ideas, concepts, designs, specifications, prototypes, techniques, technical data or know-how, formulae, methods, research and development, and inventions, as such Confidential Company Information may exist from time to time and whether in electronic, print or other form and all copies, notes, or other reproductions thereof.
G.
           
 
"Disability" Disability shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(m) of the 2006 Incentive Plan.
H.
           
 
"Employee's Termination Date"  Employee's Termination Date means the date of Employee's termination of employment with the Company, regardless of:  (i) the date, cause, or manner of such termination of employment; (ii) whether such termination is with or without Cause or is a result of Employee's resignation; or (iii) whether the Company provides severance benefits to Employee under this Agreement.
I.
             
 
"Good Reason"  Good Reason means any of the following acts by the Company, without the consent of Employee (in each case, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by Employee): (i) a reduction by the Company in Employee's base salary; (ii) a direct or indirect material reduction by the Company in Employee's aggregate annual and long-term incentive compensation opportunities, such as through a reduction in target or maximum award opportunities, a change in the performance goals or formulas for earning awards resulting in a material increase in the degree of difficulty of achieving target performance, or similar changes; (iii) a material reduction in Employee's position, duties and responsibilities, assignment to duties inconsistent with such position or material adverse change in reporting relationships, (iv) with respect to an employee who is stationed at the Company's headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina, or in Matthews, North Carolina, the Company requiring Employee, without his or her consent, to be based at any office
J.
            
 
or location more than 35 miles from the location at which Employee was stationed immediately prior to a Change in Control, or (v) the continuing material breach by the Company of any employment agreement between Employee and the Company after the expiration of any applicable period for cure.
 
"Incentive Bonus Plan"  Incentive Bonus Plan means the annual cash incentive bonus plan established pursuant to the Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus adopted under the 2006 Incentive Plan.
K.
           
 
"Restricted Territory"  Restricted Territory means any state in the United States of America, or any state in Mexico, in which (i) the Company is conducting the Company's Business on Employee's Termination Date, or (ii) the Company is planning to conduct the Company's Business on Employee's Termination Date and Employee has knowledge, or should have knowledge, of such Company plans.
L.
            
 
"Target Bonus"  Target Bonus means Employee's "target bonus" for the applicable fiscal year within the meaning of Section 4 of the Incentive Bonus Plan.
M.
          
 
"Trade Secret"  Trade Secret of the Company means any item of Confidential Company Information that constitutes a trade secret under the common law or statutory law of the State of North Carolina, namely N.C. Gen. Stat.  66-152 , but such definition of "Trade Secret" shall not alter either the Company's rights or Employee's obligations under any state or federal statutory or common law regarding trade secrets and unfair trade practices.
N.
           
et seq.
 
"2006 Incentive Plan"  2006 Incentive Plan means the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan, as in effect from time to time.
O.
           
 
  The Company hereby continues the employment of Employee, in such modified capacity, and under the terms, conditions and restrictions as set forth herein, effective as of the Date of this Agreement, and Employee hereby accepts such employment.
3.
            
Employment.
 
  Employee shall be employed as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and shall perform such reasonable duties and responsibilities as the Chairman of the Company or Board of Directors of the Company or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company may, from time to time, assign to Employee.  Employee agrees to accept this employment and to devote his full time and attention and his best efforts, ability and fidelity to the performance of the duties attaching to such employment.  In addition, Employee shall serve as a director and officer of the Company or any of its constituent entities, if appropriately elected.  During the period of his employment, Employee shall not, for remuneration or profit, directly or indirectly, render any service to, or undertake any employment for, any other person, firm or corporation, whether in an advisory or consulting capacity or otherwise, without first obtaining the written consent of the Company.
4.
            
Position, Duties and Responsibilities.
 
5.
            
Compensation.
 
In consideration of the services to be rendered by Employee pursuant to this Agreement, the Company shall pay, or cause to be paid, to Employee a weekly base salary as established by the Board of Directors of the Company.  The base salary shall be reviewed annually by the Board in connection with its annual review of executive compensation, unless Employee's employment shall have been terminated earlier pursuant to the Agreements, to determine if such base salary should be increased for the following year in recognition of services to the Company and shall initially be set at a rate not less than Employee's current annual salary.  The salary shall be payable at such intervals in conformity with the Company's prevailing practice as such practice shall be established or modified from time to time.
A.
           
 
In addition, Employee shall be entitled to:
B.
           
 
Participate in the Company's Incentive Bonus Plan, as it may be amended or modified in any respect, including achievement of established goals, as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.  Employee acknowledges that he has received a copy of the form of the Incentive Bonus Plan and related guidelines for the operation of such Plan and is familiar with the terms and conditions thereof.  Nothing contained herein shall limit the Company's right to alter, amend or terminate the Incentive Bonus Plan at any time for any reason.
i.
             
 
Employee shall be entitled to participate in any group life insurance plan, group health and accident plan, vacation plan, and retirement plan or other benefit plan or arrangement which the Company has or may from time to time hereafter establish for the benefit of its employees upon Employee's complying with all Company policies regarding participation in any such plan or arrangement, r that such participation by Employee must be permissible under such plan or arrangement and able to be implemented without inordinate expense
ii.
            
provided
howeve
 
Additional benefits and/or compensation in such form and in such manner and at such times as the Board of Directors of the Company, in the exercise of its absolute discretion, shall determine, and/or as otherwise provided by the Company, consistent with benefits and/or compensation currently provided to Company employees in similar positions.
iii.
           
 
The Company shall withhold all appropriate income and employment taxes from any compensation or other payments otherwise due to Employee hereunder.
C.
           
 
 Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 8 and 11 hereunder, in the event of Employee's termination by the Company without Cause or due to Employee's Disability or death, in each case prior to a Change in Control, the Company shall provide Employee with the following severance benefits:
6.
            
Severance Upon Termination without Cause Prior to a Change in Control. 
 
The Company shall continue the payment of Employee's base salary in effect on the date of such termination of employment for a period of twenty-four (24) months.  Such salary continuation payments shall be paid in a series of substantially equal installments in accordance with the regular payroll practices of the Company as in effect as of the date of termination over said period, commencing as soon as administratively practicable, but in no event more than sixty (60) days, following the Participant's date of termination of employment (except as otherwise required by Paragraph 17).  Such salary continuation payments shall not be considered eligible compensation under any of the Company's employee benefit plans.
(i)
           
 
If Employee's date of termination of employment is after the end of the Company's fiscal year but prior to the payment date of any bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan for such fiscal year, the Company shall pay Employee the portion of the Target Bonus earned by Employee for such fiscal year according to the terms of the Incentive Bonus Plan (i.e., based on the Company's applicable performance level), without regard to any requirement in the Incentive Bonus Plan otherwise requiring Employee to remain employed through the bonus payment date.  In addition, Employee shall be eligible to receive a pro rated bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan for the fiscal year of the Company in which such termination of employment occurs, without regard to any requirement in the Incentive Bonus Plan otherwise requiring Employee to remain employed through the bonus payment date, based on the number of completed weeks during the applicable fiscal year through the date of termination of employment and further based on the Company's applicable performance level for the fiscal year.  Any such payment shall be made to Employee at the same time the Company makes payments to other participants in the Incentive Bonus Plan.
(ii)
          
 
For the number of months set forth in clause (i) above after Employee's date of termination of employment, but not to exceed 18 months, the Company shall continue to provide health insurance coverage and benefits to Employee and Employee's dependents as if Employee's employment had not been terminated, including but not limited to the provision of the Company's Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan (the "MERP"). Any period during which health benefits are continued pursuant to this Paragraph shall be considered to be in satisfaction of the Company's obligation to provide "continuation coverage" pursuant to Section 4980B of the Code, and the period of coverage required under said Section 4980B shall be reduced by the period during which health benefits were provided pursuant to this Paragraph.
(iii)
         
 
Such payments and benefits provided by the Company to Employee as set forth in Paragraphs 6(i), (ii) and (iii) are herein called "Termination Compensation."  Such Termination Compensation shall be reduced, in whole or in part, by: (x) all other salary, bonus, consulting fees or other compensation received by or payable to Employee for services rendered in any capacity to any third party during the period that such Termination Compensation is paid; (y) all disability or life insurance payments made pursuant to disability or life insurance policies provided by and paid for by the Company to Employee and which payments are received during the period that such Termination Compensation is paid; and (z) comparable health insurance coverage actually received by Employee for services rendered in any capacity to any third party during the period that such Termination Compensation is paid.  Employee agrees to pursue
 
reasonable, good faith efforts to obtain other employment in a position suitable to Employee's background and experience. Moreover, Employee agrees to notify the Company within three business days of obtaining other employment during the time period in which Employee is receiving Termination Compensation.  Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, Employee's Termination Compensation shall be subject to forfeiture as set forth below in Paragraphs 8 and 11.
 
In the event of a Change in Control and a termination of Employee's employment within 24 months after such Change in Control either by the Company without Cause or by Employee for Good Reason, the Company shall provide Employee with the following severance benefits:
7.
            
Severance Payable in connection with a Change in Control. 
 
The Company shall pay to Employee in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the date of such termination of employment an amount equal to the product of (x) thirty (30) months and (y) the sum of (A) Employee's monthly base salary at the highest rate in effect during the period beginning immediately prior to the Change in Control through the date of Employee's termination of employment and (B) the monthly equivalent of the average of the bonuses, if any, paid or payable to Employee under the Incentive Bonus Plan for each of the three (3) fiscal years preceding the fiscal year in which Employee's termination of employment occurs (or such fewer number of fiscal years for which Employee was eligible to receive a bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan).
(i)
           
 
For the number of months represented by the multiple set forth in clause (i) (x) above after Employee's date of termination of employment, but not to exceed 18 months, the Company shall continue to provide health insurance coverage and benefits to Employee and Employee's dependents as if Employee's employment had not been terminated, including but not limited to the provision of the Company's Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan (the "MERP"). Any period during which health benefits are continued pursuant to this Paragraph shall be considered to be in satisfaction of the Company's obligation to provide "continuation coverage" pursuant to Section 4980B of the Code, and the period of coverage required under said Section 4980B shall be reduced by the period during which health benefits were provided pursuant to this Paragraph.  Such health insurance coverage shall be subject to offset as provided in Paragraph 3 above for comparable coverage received by Employee from a third party during the continuation period.
(ii)
          
 
Employee's right in connection with or following a Change in Control to receive a pro rata bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan or any other incentive compensation program under the 2006 Incentive Plan shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 15.7 of the 2006 Incentive Plan.
 
 Employee and the Company understand and agree that the purpose of the provisions of this Paragraph 8 is to protect the legitimate business interests of the Company, especially within the multi-merchandise retail industry, in light of Employee's leadership position with the Company and exposure and access to Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets.  Employee and the Company further agree and understand that
8.
            
Restrictive Covenants; Non-Disclosure Obligations; Forfeiture of Termination Compensation.
 
the multi-merchandise retail industry and the Company's Business are national in scope and that the Company has plans to expand the Company's Business internationally.  Employee acknowledges that the employment and post-employment restrictions set forth in this Paragraph 8 are therefore reasonable in that these restrictions are limited to the multi-merchandise retail industry and to the legitimate protection of the Company's Business, and that they do not, and will not, unduly impair Employee's ability to earn a living during or after Employee's employment with the Company.  As a result of Employee's educational background, prior work experience, and Employee's employment and position with the Company, Employee possesses general skills and knowledge enabling Employee, if need be, to pursue profitable work in businesses not competitive with the Company's Business.
 
Therefore, in consideration of good and valuable consideration to which Employee was not previously entitled, including, without limitation, as is set forth in Paragraph 1.B above, Employee agrees as follows:
 
Covenant Not to Compete.
A.
           
 
Employee agrees that during Employee's employment with the Company and for the period of twelve (12) months immediately following Employee's Termination Date (such period not to include any period(s) of violation or period(s) of time required for litigation to enforce the provisions of this Paragraph 8.A(i)) (the "Restricted Period"), Employee shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, directly or indirectly, accept, obtain, or hold a Competitive Position within the Restricted Territory with a Competitor.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 8.A(i) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
i.
             
not
 
Employee agrees that in the event Employee, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly accepts, obtains, or holds a Competitive Position within the Restricted Territory with a Competitor during the period between the expiration date of the Restricted Period and the date of the Company's final payment to Employee of any Termination Compensation under this Agreement (the "Concluding Compensation Period"), the Company shall be entitled to terminate any compensation, benefits, and/or remaining payments of the Termination Compensation otherwise payable to Employee under this Agreement and Employee forfeits such Termination Compensation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 8.A(ii) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
ii.
            
not
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employee may, as a passive investor, own capital stock of a publicly held corporation, which is actively traded in the over-the-counter market or is listed and traded on a national securities exchange, which constitutes or is affiliated with a Competitor, so long as Employee's ownership is not in excess of five percent (5%) of the total outstanding capital stock of the Competitor.
iii.
           
 
Non-Solicitation of Company Employees.
B.
           
 
Employee understands and agrees that the relationship between the Company and each of its employees constitutes a valuable asset of the Company and may not be
i.
             
 
converted to Employee's own use or benefit, or for the use or benefit of any other third party.  Accordingly, Employee hereby agrees that during Employee's employment and during the Restricted Period, Employee shall not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, (A) solicit or recruit for employment; hire; attempt to solicit or recruit for employment; attempt to hire; or accept as an employee, consultant, contractor, or otherwise, any Company employee, or (B) urge; encourage; induce; or attempt to urge, encourage, or induce, any Company employee to terminate his or her employment with Company; or (C) otherwise interfere with the Company's relationship with any Company employee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 8.B(i) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
 
Employee agrees that in the event Employee, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, (A) solicits or recruits for employment; hires; attempts to solicit or recruit for employment; attempts to hire; or accepts as an employee, consultant, contractor, or otherwise, any Company employee, or (B) urges; encourages; induces; or attempts to urge, encourage, or induce, any Company employee to terminate his or her employment with Company; or (C) otherwise interferes with the Company's relationship with any Company employee during the Concluding Compensation Period, the Company shall be entitled to terminate any compensation, benefits, and/or remaining payments of the Termination Compensation otherwise payable to Employee under this Agreement and Employee forfeits such Termination Compensation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 8.B(ii) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
ii.
            
not
 
.  Employee recognizes and acknowledges that during the course of Employee's employment, the Company has provided and will continue to provide Employee with exposure and access to Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets of the Company, or confidential information belonging to other third parties who may have furnished such information to the Company under obligations of confidentiality.  Employee, therefore, agrees that during Employee's employment with the Company and at all times after Employee's Termination Date, Employee shall not disclose any such Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets, or other information subject to an obligation of the Company to keep confidential, to any third party not employed by or otherwise expressly affiliated with the Company for any reason or purpose whatsoever, and shall not use such Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets except on behalf of the Company.
C.
           
Non-Disclosure of Confidential Company Information; Trade Secret Protections
 
E.  Employee acknowledges and agrees that (i) the restrictive covenants in this Paragraph 8 are reasonable in time, territory and scope, and in all other respects; (ii) should any part or provision of any covenant be held invalid, void or unenforceable in any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity, voidness, or unenforceability shall not render invalid, void or unenforceable any other part or provision of this Agreement; and (iii) if any portion of the foregoing provisions is found to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction because its duration, territory, definition of activities or definition of information covered is considered to be invalid or unreasonable in scope, the invalid or unreasonable terms shall be redefined, or a new enforceable term provided, such that the intent of the Company and Employee in agreeing to the provisions of this Agreement will not be impaired and the provision in question shall be enforceable to the fullest
D.
           
mployee Acknowledgement
 
extent of the applicable laws.  The restrictive covenants contained herein shall be construed as agreements independent of any other provision in this Agreement and the existence of any claim or cause of action of Employee against the Company, whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of this restrictive covenant.  Any decision in one state or jurisdiction invalidating or holding unenforceable any provision of this Paragraph 8 shall not be binding in any other state or jurisdiction.
 
9.
            
Other Post-Termination Covenants.
 
Employee agrees that Employee shall resign and does resign from all positions as an officer and director of the Company and from any other positions, with such resignations to be effective upon Employee's Termination Date.
A.
           
 
Upon Employee's Termination Date, Employee agrees not to make any statements to the Company's employees, customers, vendors, or suppliers or to any public or media source, whether written or oral, regarding Employee's employment or termination from the Company's employment, except as may be approved in writing by an executive officer of the Company in advance.  Employee further agrees not to make any statement (including to any media source, or to the Company's suppliers, customers or employees) or take any action that would disrupt, impair, embarrass, harm or affect adversely the Company or any of the employees, officers, directors, or customers of the Company or place the Company or such individuals in any negative light.
B.
           
 
Following Employee's Termination Date, Employee covenants to render further advice and assistance to the Company as may be required from time to time, and to provide all information available to Employee on matters handled by and through Employee while employed by the Company or of which Employee has personal knowledge, and by making available to the Company at reasonable times and circumstances, upon request by the Company, information pertinent to its operations in Employee's possession; and, to the extent that it is necessary, to cooperate with and assist the Company to conclude any matters that are pending and which may require Employee's assistance; provided, that he shall be paid reasonable compensation by the Company in the event Employee is required to expend time in the performance of such services; and provided further, that Employee may perform such services in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere with other employment obtained by Employee.   Employee shall be reimbursed for any expenses incurred by Employee in the performance of the covenants herein set forth in this Paragraph 9.C.
C.
           
 
In addition, Employee agrees to cooperate with and provide assistance to the Company and its legal counsel in connection with any litigation (including arbitration or administrative hearings) or investigation affecting the Company, in which, in the reasonable judgment of the Company's counsel, Employee's assistance or cooperation is needed.  Employee shall, when requested by the Company, provide testimony or other assistance and shall travel at the Company's request in order to fulfill this obligation.  In connection with such litigation or investigation, the Company shall attempt to accommodate Employee's schedule, shall reimburse Employee (unless prohibited by law) for any actual loss of wages in connection therewith, shall provide Employee with reasonable notice in advance of the times in which Employee's
D.
           
 
cooperation or assistance is needed, and shall reimburse Employee for any reasonable expenses incurred in connection with such matters.
 
  Upon Employee's Termination Date, Employee shall, as soon as possible but no later than two (2) days from Employee's Termination Date, surrender to the Company all Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets in Employee's possession and return to the Company all Company property in Employee's possession or control, including but not limited to, all paper records and documents, computer disks and access cards and keys to any Company facilities.
10.
          
Delivery of Property upon Termination.
 
  Because Employee's services to the Company are special and unique and because Employee has been exposed to and has had access to Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets, Employee and the Company agree that any breach or threatened breach of the provisions of Paragraphs 8.A(i), 8.B(i), 8.C, and 9 would cause irreparable injury to the Company and that money damages would not provide an adequate remedy to the Company.  In the event of a breach or threatened breach of Paragraphs 8.A(i), 8.B(i), 8.C, or 9 of this Agreement, the Company or its successors or assigns may, in addition to any other rights and remedies existing in their favor, apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for specific performance; temporary, preliminary, and permanent injunctive relief; expedited discovery; or other equitable relief in order to enforce or prevent any violations of any such provisions (without posting a bond or other security).  The Company shall be specifically entitled to an injunction restraining Employee from disclosing any Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets, and, further, from accepting or continuing any employment with or rendering any services, or continuing to render services, to any such third-party to whom any Confidential Company Information or Trade Secret has been disclosed or is threatened to be disclosed by Employee.
11.
          
Enforcement of Restrictions in Paragraphs 8 and 9.
 
In addition to the foregoing and not in any way in limitation thereof, or in limitation of any right or remedy otherwise available to the Company, if Employee violates any provision of Paragraphs 8.A(i), 8.B(i), 8.C, and 9 of this Agreement: (i) any compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation then or thereafter due from the Company to Employee shall be terminated forthwith; (ii) the Company's obligation to pay or provide and Employee's right to receive such compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation shall terminate and be of no further force or effect; and (iii) upon demand by the Company, Employee shall repay to the Company any such compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation previously paid by the Company because of not being informed or aware of Employee's violation of a provision of Paragraphs 8.A(i), 8.B(i), 8.C, or 9 of this Agreement; in each case without limiting or affecting Employee's obligations under such Paragraphs 8.A(i), 8.B(i), 8.C, or 9 or the Company's other rights and remedies available at law or in equity, and provided that at least $20,000 of such compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation shall be retained by Employee representing the consideration Employee received in exchange for Employee's release and waiver of rights or claims under Paragraph 12 of this Agreement.
 
W.  In consideration for the payments and benefits provided and to be provided hereunder, Employee agrees that Employee will, upon termination of employment and as a condition to the Company's obligation to pay any severance benefits under this Agreement, deliver to the Company a fully executed release agreement substantially in a
12.
          
aiver and Release
 
form then used by and agreeable to the Company and which shall fully and irrevocably release and discharge the Company, its directors, officers, and employees from any and all claims, charges, complaints, liabilities of any kind, known or unknown, owed to Employee.
 
.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of any successor to or assignee of the Company, and Employee specifically agrees on demand to execute any and all necessary documents in connection with the performance of this Agreement.  No waiver by either party of any breach by the other of any provision hereof shall be deemed to be a waiver of any later or other breach thereof or as a waiver of any such or other provision of this Agreement.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared invalid or unenforceable as a matter of law, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement or of the remainder of this Agreement as a whole.
13.
          
Special Provisions
 
  This Agreement sets forth all of the terms of the understanding between the parties with reference to the subject matter set forth herein and may not be waived, changed, discharged or terminated orally or by any course of dealing between the parties, but only by an instrument in writing signed by the party against whom any waiver, change, discharge or termination is sought.  This Agreement revokes and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements, representations, promises and understandings, whether written or oral, between the parties, including without limitation the previous Employment Agreement between Employee and the Company dated August 18, 2005, as amended by agreement dated August 17, 2006.
14.
          
Complete Agreement.
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of North Carolina without regard to its choice of law or conflict of law principles.  Employee hereby expressly and irrevocably consentsto the venue and jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina, or any state court in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
15.
          
Choice of Law; Consent to Jurisdiction. 
 
.  All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered, if mailed by registered, certified or express mail, postage prepaid, or if delivered to a recognized courier service, addressed to Employee at the address shown on the Company's records for tax reporting purposes or to the Company as follows (or in either case to such other address as one party shall give the other in the manner provided herein):
16.
          
Notices
 
 
  This Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A, to the extent applicable.  Notwithstanding any provision herein to the
17.
          
Compliance with Code Section 409A.
 
contrary, this Agreement shall be interpreted, operated and administered consistent with this intent.  Each separate installment under this Agreement shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of determining whether such payment is subject to or exempt from compliance with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  In addition, in the event that Employee is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code (as determined in accordance with the methodology established by the Company as in effect on the date of termination of Employee's employment), any payment or benefits hereunder that are nonqualified deferred compensation subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code shall be provided to Employee no earlier than six (6) months after the date of Employee's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement all as of the day and year first above written.

Exhibit 10.3
 
This Severance Agreement is effective this                  day of October, 2008, by and between                         , ("Employee") and Family Dollar Stores, Inc., and its successors, subsidiaries and affiliated companies (collectively, the "Company").
 
1.
            
Recitals.
  Employee and the Company recite the following:
 
A.
           
Employee is employed by the Company in a position of senior leadership.
 
B.
           
The Company desires to obtain the agreement of Employee to certain restrictive covenants and other provisions as set forth herein in exchange for Employee's receipt of good and valuable consideration to which Employee was not previously entitled, including without limitation: (i) the Company's agreement to provide certain severance payments as described herein, (ii) an increase in Employee's rate of base salary effective as of September 7, 2008, (iii) an award opportunity under the Company's Incentive Bonus Plan for the fiscal year beginning August 31, 2008, (iv) an award of Performance Share Rights under the 2006 Incentive Plan for the 3-year performance period commencing August 31, 2008, and (v) an award of stock options under the 2006 Incentive Plan with a grant date of October 7, 2008.
 
C.
           
Notwithstanding any provision of this Severance Agreement, the Company and Employee agree that Employee's employment with the Company is "at will" and may be terminated at any time with or without "Cause" without any liability or obligation of the Company except as expressly set forth herein.
 
2.
            
Definitions.
  When used in this Severance Agreement the following terms and provisions shall have the meanings set forth herein:
 
A.
           
"Cause"   (i) At any time after a Change in Control, Cause means any of the following acts by Employee, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company:  (a) gross neglect of duty, (b) prolonged absence from duty without the consent of the Company, (c) intentionally engaging in any activity that is in conflict with or adverse to the business, reputation or other interests of the Company, or (d) willful misconduct, misfeasance or malfeasance of duty which is reasonably determined to be detrimental to the Company. The determination of the Compensation Committee as to the existence of "Cause" shall be conclusive on Employee and the Company.
 
(ii) At any time prior to a Change in Control, Cause means any of the following: (a) conviction of a felony, any act involving moral turpitude, or a misdemeanor where imprisonment is imposed, (b) commission of any act of theft, fraud, dishonesty, or falsification of any employment or Company records, (c) improper disclosure of the Company's confidential or proprietary information, (d) Employee's failure to comply with reasonable written directives of the Chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors of the Company, (e) a course of conduct amounting to gross incompetence, (f) chronic and unexcused absenteeism, or (g) misconduct in
connection with the performance of any of Employee's duties, including, without limitation, misappropriation of funds or property of the Company, securing or attempting to secure personally any profit in connection with any transaction entered into on behalf of the Company, misrepresentation to the Company, or any violation of law or regulations on Company premises or to which the Company is subject.
 
B.
           
"Change in Control"  Change in Control shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(f) of the 2006 Incentive Plan; , , that to the extent applicable under Section 409A of the Code, for purposes of paying certain severance payments within 24 months after a Change in Control under Paragraph 4 below, Change in Control shall have the same meaning as set forth in any regulations, revenue procedure, revenue rulings or other pronouncements issued by the Secretary of the United States Treasury pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.
provided
however
 
C.
           
"Code"  Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and includes a reference to the underlying final regulations.
 
D.
           
"Company's Business"  The Company's Business means the operation of multi-merchandise retail stores, the majority of which stores each have 25,000 square feet or less of total selling space, and that sell, or offer for sale, low-cost, basic merchandise for family and home needs, including perishable and non-perishable goods.
 
E.
            
"Competitive Position"  Competitive Position means any employment with or activity or service performed for a Competitor (whether as owner, member, manager, lender, partner, shareholder, member, consultant, agent, employee, co-venturer or otherwise) in which (i) Employee will use or could reasonably be expected to use any Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets of the Company for the benefit of a Competitor in competition with the Company; or (ii) Employee will hold a position, have duties, or perform services for such Competitor that is or are the same as or substantially similar to Employee's position with, duties for, or services actually performed for the Company during Employee's employment with the Company.
 
F.
            
"Competitor"  Competitor means (i) any person or entity whose business is the same as or substantially similar to the Company's Business; (ii) any person or entity who owns or operates multi-merchandise retail stores that each have 25,000 square feet, or less, of total selling space, and that sell, or offer for sale, merchandise that is the same as or substantially similar to merchandise sold or offered for sale by the Company; or (iii) any person or entity who plans to own or operate multi-merchandise retail stores that have 25,000 square feet, or less, of total selling space, and that will sell, or offer for sale, merchandise that is the same as or substantially similar to merchandise sold or offered for sale by the Company.
 
G.
           
"Confidential Company Information"  Confidential Company Information means, unless otherwise available to the public, (i) any and all information relating to the Company's methods of operation, source of merchandise supply, organizational details, personnel information, marketing plans, business plans, strategic plans, forecasts, or financial information or data; (ii) any and all information relating to the Company's real estate activities
including, but not limited to, landlords, prospective landlords, and lease data; (iii) the specific terms of the Company's agreements or arrangements with any officers, directors, employees, vendors, suppliers, or any other entity with which the Company may be affiliated from time to time, including, but not limited to, the value of any consideration provided or received by the Company or the expiration date of any such agreement or arrangement; and (iv) any and all information of a technical or proprietary nature developed by or acquired by the Company or made available to the Company and its employees by vendors, suppliers, contractors, or other employees of the Company, on a confidential basis, including, but not limited to, ideas, concepts, designs, specifications, prototypes, techniques, technical data or know-how, formulae, methods, research and development, and inventions, as such Confidential Company Information may exist from time to time and whether in electronic, print or other form and all copies, notes, or other reproductions thereof.
 
H.
           
"Disability" Disability shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(m) of the 2006 Incentive Plan.
 
I.
             
"Employee's Termination Date"  Employee's Termination Date means the date of Employee's termination of employment with the Company, regardless of:  (i) the date, cause, or manner of such termination of employment; (ii) whether such termination is with or without Cause or is a result of Employee's resignation; or (iii) whether the Company provides severance benefits to Employee under this Agreement.
 
J.
            
"
Good Reason" shall mean any of the following acts by the Company, without the consent of the Employee (in each case, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Employee): (i) a reduction by the Company in the Employee's base salary; (ii) a direct or indirect material reduction by the Company in the Employee's aggregate annual and long-term incentive compensation opportunities, such as through a reduction in target or maximum award opportunities, a change in the performance goals or formulas for earning awards resulting in a material increase in the degree of difficulty of achieving target performance, or similar changes; (iii) a material reduction in the Employee's position, duties and responsibilities, assignment to duties inconsistent with such position or material adverse change in reporting relationships, (iv) with respect to an Employee who is stationed at the Company's headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina, or in Matthews, North Carolina, the Company requiring the Employee, without his or her consent, to be based at any office or location more than 35 miles from the location at which the Employee was stationed immediately prior to a Change in Control, or (v) the continuing material breach by the Company of any employment agreement between the Employee and the Company after the expiration of any applicable period for cure.
 
K.
           
"Incentive Bonus Plan"  The annual cash incentive bonus plan established pursuant to the Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus adopted under the 2006 Incentive Plan.
 
L.
            
"Restricted Territory"  Restricted Territory means any state in the United States of America, or any state in Mexico, in which (i) the Company is conducting the
Company's Business on Employee's Termination Date, or (ii) the Company is planning to conduct the Company's Business on Employee's Termination Date and Employee has knowledge, or should have knowledge, of such Company plans.
 
M.
          
"Target Bonus"  Target Bonus means Employee's "target bonus" for the applicable fiscal year within the meaning of Section 4 of the Incentive Bonus Plan.
 
N.
           
"Trade Secret" 
Trade Secret of the Company means any item of Confidential Company Information that constitutes a trade secret under the common law or statutory law of the State of North Carolina, namely N.C. Gen. Stat.  66-152 , but such definition of "Trade Secret" shall not alter either the Company's rights or Employee's obligations under any state or federal statutory or common law regarding trade secrets and unfair trade practices.
et seq.
 
O.
           
"2006 Incentive Plan"  The Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan, as in effect from time to time.
 
3.
            
Severance Upon Termination without Cause Prior to a Change in Control
 Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 5 and 8 hereunder, in the event of Employee's termination by the Company without Cause or due to Employee's Disability or death, in each case prior to a Change in Control, the Company shall provide Employee with the following severance benefits:
 
(i)
           
The Company shall continue the payment of Employee's base salary in effect on the date of such termination of employment for a period of twenty-four (24) months.  Such salary continuation payments shall be paid in a series of substantially equal installments in accordance with the regular payroll practices of the Company as in effect as of the date of termination over said period, commencing as soon as administratively practicable, but in no event more than sixty (60) days, following the Participant's date of termination of employment (except as otherwise required by Paragraph 14).  Such salary continuation payments shall not be considered eligible compensation under any of the Company's employee benefit plans.
 
(ii)
          
If Employee's date of termination of employment is after the end of the Company's fiscal year but prior to the payment date of any bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan for such fiscal year, the Company shall pay Employee the portion of the Target Bonus earned by Employee for such fiscal year according to the terms of the Incentive Bonus Plan (i.e., based on the Company's applicable performance level and, to the extent applicable, Employee's performance rating for the fiscal year), without regard to any requirement in the Incentive Bonus Plan otherwise requiring Employee to remain employed through the bonus payment date.  In addition, Employee shall be eligible to receive a pro rated bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan for the fiscal year of the Company in which such termination of employment occurs, without regard to any requirement in the Incentive Bonus Plan otherwise requiring Employee to remain employed through the bonus payment date, based on the number of completed weeks during the applicable fiscal year through the date of termination of employment and
further based on the Company's applicable performance level for the fiscal year and, if available and to the extent applicable, Employee's performance rating for the fiscal year (or if no such performance rating is available, assuming a performance rating of "satisfactory" or its equivalent).  Any such payment shall be made to Employee at the same time the Company makes payments to other participants in the Incentive Bonus Plan.
 
(iii)
         
For the number of months set forth in clause (i) above after Employee's date of termination of employment, but not to exceed 18 months, the Company shall continue to provide health insurance coverage and benefits to Employee and Employee's dependents as if Employee's employment had not been terminated, including but not limited to the provision of the Company's Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan (the "MERP"). Any period during which health benefits are continued pursuant to this Paragraph shall be considered to be in satisfaction of the Company's obligation to provide "continuation coverage" pursuant to Section 4980B of the Code, and the period of coverage required under said Section 4980B shall be reduced by the period during which health benefits were provided pursuant to this Paragraph.
 
Such payments and benefits provided by the Company to Employee as set forth in Paragraphs 3(i), (ii) and (iii) are herein called "Termination Compensation."  Such Termination Compensation shall be reduced, in whole or in part, by: (x) all other salary, bonus, consulting fees or other compensation received by or payable to Employee for services rendered in any capacity to any third party during the period that such Termination Compensation is paid; (y) all disability or life insurance payments made pursuant to disability or life insurance policies provided by and paid for by the Company to Employee and which payments are received during the period that such Termination Compensation is paid; and (z) comparable health insurance coverage actually received by Employee for services rendered in any capacity to any third party during the period that such Termination Compensation is paid.  The Employee agrees to pursue reasonable, good faith efforts to obtain other employment in a position suitable to Employee's background and experience. Moreover, Employee agrees to notify the Company within three business days of obtaining other employment during the time period in which Employee is receiving Termination Compensation.  Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, Employee's Termination Compensation shall be subject to forfeiture as set forth below in Paragraph Five.
 
4.
            
Severance Payable in connection with a Change in Control
  In the event of a Change in Control and a termination of Employee's employment within 24 months after such Change in Control either by the Company without Cause or by Employee for Good Reason, the Company shall provide Employee with the following severance benefits:
 
(i)
           
The Company shall pay to Employee in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the date of such termination of employment an amount equal to the product of (x) twenty-four (24) months and (y) the sum of (A) Employee's monthly base salary at the highest rate in effect during the period beginning immediately prior to the Change in Control through the date of Employee's termination of employment and (B) the monthly equivalent of the average of the bonuses, if any, paid or payable to Employee under the Incentive Bonus Plan for each of the three (3) fiscal years preceding the fiscal year in which Employee's
termination of employment occurs (or such fewer number of fiscal years for which Employee was eligible to receive a bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan).
 
(ii)
          
For the number of months represented by the multiple set forth in clause (i) (x) above after Employee's date of termination of employment, but not to exceed 18 months, the Company shall continue to provide health insurance coverage and benefits to Employee and Employee's dependents as if Employee's employment had not been terminated, including but not limited to the provision of the Company's Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan (the "MERP"). Any period during which health benefits are continued pursuant to this Paragraph shall be considered to be in satisfaction of the Company's obligation to provide "continuation coverage" pursuant to Section 4980B of the Code, and the period of coverage required under said Section 4980B shall be reduced by the period during which health benefits were provided pursuant to this Paragraph.  Such health insurance coverage shall be subject to offset as provided in Paragraph 3 above for comparable coverage received by Employee from a third party during the continuation period.
 
The Employee's right in connection with or following a Change in Control to receive a pro rata bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan or any other incentive compensation program under the 2006 Incentive Plan shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 15.7 of the 2006 Incentive Plan.
 
5.
            
Restrictive Covenants; Non-Disclosure Obligations; Forfeiture of Termination Compensation.
 Employee and the Company understand and agree that the purpose of the provisions of this Paragraph 5 is to protect the legitimate business interests of the Company, especially within the multi-merchandise retail industry, in light of Employee's leadership position with the Company and exposure and access to Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets.  Employee and the Company further agree and understand that the multi-merchandise retail industry and the Company's Business are national in scope and that the Company has plans to expand the Company's Business internationally.  Employee acknowledges that the employment and post-employment restrictions set forth in this Paragraph 5 are therefore reasonable in that these restrictions are limited to the multi-merchandise retail industry and to the legitimate protection of the Company's Business, and that they do not, and will not, unduly impair Employee's ability to earn a living during or after Employee's employment with the Company.  As a result of Employee's educational background, prior work experience, and Employee's employment and position with the Company, Employee possesses general skills and knowledge enabling Employee, if need be, to pursue profitable work in businesses not competitive with the Company's Business.
 
Therefore, in consideration of
good and valuable consideration to which Employee was not previously entitled, including, without limitation, as is set forth in Paragraph 1.B above, Employee agrees as follows:
 
A.
           
Covenant Not to Compete
.
 
(i)
           
Employee agrees that during Employee's employment with the Company and for the period of twelve (12) months immediately following Employee's
 
Termination Date
(such period not to include any period(s) of violation or period(s) of time required for litigation to enforce the provisions of this Paragraph 5.A(i)) (the "Restricted Period"), Employee shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, directly or indirectly, accept, obtain, or hold a Competitive Position within the Restricted Territory with a Competitor.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 5.A(i) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
 
(ii)
          
Employee agrees that in the event Employee, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly accepts, obtains, or holds a Competitive Position within the Restricted Territory with a Competitor during the period between the expiration date of the Restricted Period and the date of the Company's final payment to Employee of any Termination Compensation under this Agreement (the "Concluding Compensation Period"), the Company shall be entitled to terminate any compensation, benefits, and/or remaining payments of the Termination Compensation otherwise payable to Employee under this Agreement and Employee forfeits such Termination Compensation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 5.A(ii) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
 
(iii)
         
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employee may, as a passive investor, own capital stock of a publicly held corporation, which is actively traded in the over-the-counter market or is listed and traded on a national securities exchange, which constitutes or is affiliated with a Competitor, so long as Employee's ownership is not in excess of five percent (5%) of the total outstanding capital stock of the Competitor.
 
B.
           
Non-Solicitation of Company Employees
.
 
(i)
           
Employee
understands and agrees that the relationship between the Company and each of its employees constitutes a valuable asset of the Company and may not be converted to Employee's own use or benefit, or for the use or benefit of any other third party.  Accordingly, Employee hereby agrees that during Employee's employment and during the Restricted Period, Employee shall not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, (A) solicit or recruit for employment; hire; attempt to solicit or recruit for employment; attempt to hire; or accept as an employee, consultant, contractor, or otherwise, any Company employee, or (B) urge; encourage; induce; or attempt to urge, encourage, or induce, any Company employee to terminate his or her employment with Company; or (C) otherwise interfere with the Company's relationship with any Company employee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 5.B(i) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
 
(ii)
          
Employee agrees that in the event Employee, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, (A) solicits or recruits for employment; hires; attempts to solicit or recruit for employment; attempts to hire; or accepts as an employee, consultant, contractor, or otherwise, any Company employee, or (B) urges; encourages; induces; or attempts to urge, encourage, or induce, any Company employee to terminate his or her employment with Company; or (C) otherwise interferes with the Company's relationship with any Company employee during the Concluding Compensation Period, the Company shall be
entitled to terminate any compensation, benefits, and/or remaining payments of the Termination Compensation otherwise payable to Employee under this Agreement and Employee forfeits such Termination Compensation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 5.B(ii) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
 
C.
           
Non-Disclosure of Confidential Company Information; Trade Secret Protections
.  Employee recognizes and acknowledges that during the course of Employee's employment, the Company has provided and will continue to provide Employee with exposure and access to Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets of the Company, or confidential information belonging to other third parties who may have furnished such information to the Company under obligations of confidentiality.  Employee, therefore, agrees that during Employee's employment with the Company and at all times after Employee's Termination Date, Employee shall not disclose any such Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets, or other information subject to an obligation of the Company to keep confidential, to any third party not employed by or otherwise expressly affiliated with the Company for any reason or purpose whatsoever, and shall not use such Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets except on behalf of the Company.
 
D.
           
Employee Acknowledgement
.  Employee acknowledges and agrees that (i) the restrictive covenants in this Paragraph 5 are reasonable in time, territory and scope, and in all other respects; (ii) should any part or provision of any covenant be held invalid, void or unenforceable in any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity, voidness, or unenforceability shall not render invalid, void or unenforceable any other part or provision of this Agreement; and (iii) if any portion of the foregoing provisions is found to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction because its duration, territory, definition of activities or definition of information covered is considered to be invalid or unreasonable in scope, the invalid or unreasonable terms shall be redefined, or a new enforceable term provided, such that the intent of the Company and Employee in agreeing to the provisions of this Agreement will not be impaired and the provision in question shall be enforceable to the fullest extent of the applicable laws.  The restrictive covenants contained herein shall be construed as agreements independent of any other provision in this Agreement and the existence of any claim or cause of action of Employee against the Company, whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of this restrictive covenant.  Any decision in one state or jurisdiction invalidating or holding unenforceable any provision of this Paragraph 5 shall not be binding in any other state or jurisdiction.
 
6.
            
Other
Post-Termination Covenants.
 
A.
           
Employee agrees that Employee shall resign and does resign from all positions as an officer and director of the Company and from any other positions, with such resignations to be effective upon Employee's Termination Date.
 
B.
           
Upon Employee's Termination Date, Employee agrees not to make any statements to the Company's employees, customers, vendors, or suppliers or to any public or media source, whether written or oral, regarding Employee's employment or termination from the Company's employment, except as may be approved in writing by an executive officer of the
Company in advance.  The Employee further agrees not to make any statement (including to any media source, or to the Company's suppliers, customers or employees) or take any action that would disrupt, impair, embarrass, harm or affect adversely the Company or any of the employees, officers, directors, or customers of the Company or place the Company or such individuals in any negative light.
 
C.
           
Following Employee's Termination Date, Employee covenants to render further advice and assistance to the Company as may be required from time to time, and to provide all information available to Employee on matters handled by and through Employee while employed by the Company or of which Employee has personal knowledge, and by making available to the Company at reasonable times and circumstances, upon request by the Company, information pertinent to its operations in Employee's possession; and, to the extent that it is necessary, to cooperate with and assist the Company to conclude any matters that are pending and which may require Employee's assistance; provided, that he shall be paid reasonable compensation by the Company in the event Employee is required to expend time in the performance of such services; and provided further, that Employee may perform such services in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere with other employment obtained by Employee.  The Employee shall be reimbursed for any expenses incurred by Employee in the performance of the covenants herein set forth in this Paragraph 6.C.
 
In addition, Employee agrees to cooperate with and provide assistance to the Company and its legal counsel in connection with any litigation (including arbitration or administrative hearings) or investigation affecting the Company, in which, in the reasonable judgment of the Company's counsel, Employee's assistance or cooperation is needed.  The Employee shall, when requested by the Company, provide testimony or other assistance and shall travel at the Company's request in order to fulfill this obligation.  In connection with such litigation or investigation, the Company shall attempt to accommodate Employee's schedule, shall reimburse Employee (unless prohibited by law) for any actual loss of wages in connection therewith, shall provide Employee with reasonable notice in advance of the times in which Employee's cooperation or assistance is needed, and shall reimburse Employee for any reasonable expenses incurred in connection with such matters.
 
7.
            
Delivery of Property upon Termination.
  Upon Employee's Termination Date, Employee shall, as soon as possible but no later than two (2) days from Employee's Termination Date, surrender to the Company all Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets in Employee's possession and return to the Company all Company property in Employee's possession or control, including but not limited to, all paper records and documents, computer disks and access cards and keys to any Company facilities.
 
8.
            
Enforcement of Restrictions in Paragraphs 5 and 6.
  Because Employee's services to the Company are special and unique and because Employee has been exposed to and has had access to Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets, Employee and the Company agree that any breach or threatened breach of the provisions of Paragraphs 5.A(i), 5.B(i), 5.C, and 6 would cause irreparable injury to the Company and that money damages would not provide an adequate remedy to the Company.  In the event of a breach or threatened breach of Paragraphs 5.A(i), 5.B(i), 5.C, or 6 of this Agreement, the Company or its successors or
assigns may, in addition to any other rights and remedies existing in their favor, apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for specific performance; temporary, preliminary, and permanent injunctive relief; expedited discovery; or other equitable relief in order to enforce or prevent any violations of any such provisions (without posting a bond or other security).  The Company shall be specifically entitled to an injunction restraining Employee from disclosing any Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets, and, further, from accepting or continuing any employment with or rendering any services, or continuing to render services, to any such third-party to whom any Confidential Company Information or Trade Secret has been disclosed or is threatened to be disclosed by Employee.
 
In addition to the foregoing and not in any way in limitation thereof, or in limitation of any right or remedy otherwise available to the Company, if Employee violates any provision of Paragraphs 5.A(i), 5.B(i), 5.C, and 6 of this Agreement: (i) any compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation then or thereafter due from the Company to Employee shall be terminated forthwith; (ii) the Company's obligation to pay or provide and Employee's right to receive such compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation shall terminate and be of no further force or effect; and (iii) upon demand by the Company, Employee shall repay to the Company any such compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation previously paid by the Company because of not being informed or aware of Employee's violation of a provision of Paragraphs 5.A(i), 5.B(i), 5.C, or 6 of this Agreement; in each case without limiting or affecting Employee's obligations under such Paragraphs 5.A(i), 5.B(i), 5.C, or 6 or the Company's other rights and remedies available at law or in equity, and provided that at least $20,000 of such compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation shall be retained by Employee representing the consideration Employee received in exchange for Employee's release and waiver of rights or claims under Paragraph 9 of this Agreement.
 
9.
            
Waiver and Release
.  In consideration for the payments and benefits provided and to be provided hereunder, Employee agrees that Employee will, upon termination of employment and as a condition to the Company's obligation to pay any severance benefits under this Agreement, deliver to the Company a fully executed release agreement substantially in a form then used by and agreeable to the Company and which shall fully and irrevocably release and discharge the Company, its directors, officers, and employees from any and all claims, charges, complaints, liabilities of any kind, known or unknown, owed to Employee.
 
10
.
          
Special Provisions
. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of any successor to or assignee of the Company, and Employee specifically agrees on demand to execute any and all necessary documents in connection with the performance of this Agreement.  No waiver by either party of any breach by the other of any provision hereof shall be deemed to be a waiver of any later or other breach thereof or as a waiver of any such or other provision of this Agreement.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared invalid or unenforceable as a matter of law, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement or of the remainder of this Agreement as a whole.
 
11.
          
Complete Agreement.
  This Agreement sets forth all of the terms of the understanding between the parties with reference to the subject matter set forth herein and may not be waived, changed, discharged or terminated orally or by any course of dealing between the
parties, but only by an instrument in writing signed by the party against whom any waiver, change, discharge or termination is sought. This Agreement revokes and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements, representations, promises and understandings, whether written or oral, between the parties, including without limitation the Employment Agreement between Employee and the Company dated                         .
 
12.
          
Choice of Law; Consent to Jurisdiction. 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of North Carolina without regard to its choice of law or conflict of law principles.  Employee hereby expressly and irrevocably consentsto the venue and jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina, or any state court in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
 
13.
          
Notices
.  All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered, if mailed by registered, certified or express mail, postage prepaid, or if delivered to a recognized courier service, addressed to Employee at the address shown on the Company's records for tax reporting purposes or to the Company as follows (or in either case to such other address as one party shall give the other in the manner provided herein):
 
 
14.
          
Compliance with Code Section 409A.
  This Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A, to the extent applicable.  Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, this Agreement shall be interpreted, operated and administered consistent with this intent.  Each separate installment under this Agreement shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of determining whether such payment is subject to or exempt from compliance with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  In addition, in the event that Employee is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code (as determined in accordance with the methodology established by the Company as in effect on the date of termination of Employee's employment), any payment or benefits hereunder that are nonqualified deferred compensation subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code shall be provided to Employee no earlier than six (6) months after the date of Employee's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
This Severance Agreement is effective this                  day of October, 2008, by and between                         , ("Employee") and Family Dollar Stores, Inc., and its successors, subsidiaries and affiliated companies (collectively, the "Company").
 
1.
            
Recitals.
  Employee and the Company recite the following:
 
A.
           
Employee is employed by the Company in a position of senior leadership.
 
B.
           
The Company desires to obtain the agreement of Employee to certain restrictive covenants and other provisions as set forth herein in exchange for Employee's receipt of good and valuable consideration to which Employee was not previously entitled, including without limitation: (i) the Company's agreement to provide certain severance payments as described herein, (ii) an increase in Employee's rate of base salary effective as of September 7, 2008, (iii) an award opportunity under the Company's Incentive Bonus Plan for the fiscal year beginning August 31, 2008, (iv) an award of Performance Share Rights under the 2006 Incentive Plan for the 3-year performance period commencing August 31, 2008, and (v) an award of stock options under the 2006 Incentive Plan with a grant date of October 7, 2008.
 
C.
           
Notwithstanding any provision of this Severance Agreement, the Company and Employee agree that Employee's employment with the Company is "at will" and may be terminated at any time with or without "Cause" without any liability or obligation of the Company except as expressly set forth herein.
 
2.
            
Definitions.
  When used in this Severance Agreement the following terms and provisions shall have the meanings set forth herein:
 
A.
           
"Cause"   (i) At any time after a Change in Control, Cause means any of the following acts by Employee, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company:  (a) gross neglect of duty, (b) prolonged absence from duty without the consent of the Company, (c) intentionally engaging in any activity that is in conflict with or adverse to the business, reputation or other interests of the Company, or (d) willful misconduct, misfeasance or malfeasance of duty which is reasonably determined to be detrimental to the Company. The determination of the Compensation Committee as to the existence of "Cause" shall be conclusive on Employee and the Company.
 
(ii) At any time prior to a Change in Control, Cause means any of the following: (a) conviction of a felony, any act involving moral turpitude, or a misdemeanor where imprisonment is imposed, (b) commission of any act of theft, fraud, dishonesty, or falsification of any employment or Company records, (c) improper disclosure of the Company's confidential or proprietary information, (d) Employee's failure to comply with reasonable written directives of the Chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors of the Company, (e) a course of conduct amounting to gross incompetence, (f) chronic and unexcused absenteeism, or (g) misconduct in
 
connection with the performance of any of Employee's duties, including, without limitation, misappropriation of funds or property of the Company, securing or attempting to secure personally any profit in connection with any transaction entered into on behalf of the Company, misrepresentation to the Company, or any violation of law or regulations on Company premises or to which the Company is subject.
 
B.
           
"Change in Control"  Change in Control shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(f) of the 2006 Incentive Plan; , , that to the extent applicable under Section 409A of the Code, for purposes of paying certain severance payments within 24 months after a Change in Control under Paragraph 4 below, Change in Control shall have the same meaning as set forth in any regulations, revenue procedure, revenue rulings or other pronouncements issued by the Secretary of the United States Treasury pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.
provided
however
 
C.
           
"Code"  Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and includes a reference to the underlying final regulations.
 
D.
           
"Company's Business"  The Company's Business means the operation of multi-merchandise retail stores, the majority of which stores each have 25,000 square feet or less of total selling space, and that sell, or offer for sale, low-cost, basic merchandise for family and home needs, including perishable and non-perishable goods.
 
E.
            
"Competitive Position"  Competitive Position means any employment with or activity or service performed for a Competitor (whether as owner, member, manager, lender, partner, shareholder, member, consultant, agent, employee, co-venturer or otherwise) in which (i) Employee will use or could reasonably be expected to use any Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets of the Company for the benefit of a Competitor in competition with the Company; or (ii) Employee will hold a position, have duties, or perform services for such Competitor that is or are the same as or substantially similar to Employee's position with, duties for, or services actually performed for the Company during Employee's employment with the Company.
 
F.
            
"Competitor"  Competitor means (i) any person or entity whose business is the same as or substantially similar to the Company's Business; (ii) any person or entity who owns or operates multi-merchandise retail stores that each have 25,000 square feet, or less, of total selling space, and that sell, or offer for sale, merchandise that is the same as or substantially similar to merchandise sold or offered for sale by the Company; or (iii) any person or entity who plans to own or operate multi-merchandise retail stores that have 25,000 square feet, or less, of total selling space, and that will sell, or offer for sale, merchandise that is the same as or substantially similar to merchandise sold or offered for sale by the Company.
 
G.
           
"Confidential Company Information"  Confidential Company Information means, unless otherwise available to the public, (i) any and all information relating to the Company's methods of operation, source of merchandise supply, organizational details, personnel information, marketing plans, business plans, strategic plans, forecasts, or financial information or data; (ii) any and all information relating to the Company's real estate activities
 
including, but not limited to, landlords, prospective landlords, and lease data; (iii) the specific terms of the Company's agreements or arrangements with any officers, directors, employees, vendors, suppliers, or any other entity with which the Company may be affiliated from time to time, including, but not limited to, the value of any consideration provided or received by the Company or the expiration date of any such agreement or arrangement; and (iv) any and all information of a technical or proprietary nature developed by or acquired by the Company or made available to the Company and its employees by vendors, suppliers, contractors, or other employees of the Company, on a confidential basis, including, but not limited to, ideas, concepts, designs, specifications, prototypes, techniques, technical data or know-how, formulae, methods, research and development, and inventions, as such Confidential Company Information may exist from time to time and whether in electronic, print or other form and all copies, notes, or other reproductions thereof.
 
H.
           
"Disability" Disability shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(m) of the 2006 Incentive Plan.
 
I.
             
"Employee's Termination Date"  Employee's Termination Date means the date of Employee's termination of employment with the Company, regardless of:  (i) the date, cause, or manner of such termination of employment; (ii) whether such termination is with or without Cause or is a result of Employee's resignation; or (iii) whether the Company provides severance benefits to Employee under this Agreement.
 
J.
            
"
Good Reason" shall mean any of the following acts by the Company, without the consent of the Employee (in each case, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Employee): (i) a reduction by the Company in the Employee's base salary; (ii) a direct or indirect material reduction by the Company in the Employee's aggregate annual and long-term incentive compensation opportunities, such as through a reduction in target or maximum award opportunities, a change in the performance goals or formulas for earning awards resulting in a material increase in the degree of difficulty of achieving target performance, or similar changes; (iii) a material reduction in the Employee's position, duties and responsibilities, assignment to duties inconsistent with such position or material adverse change in reporting relationships, (iv) with respect to an Employee who is stationed at the Company's headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina, or in Matthews, North Carolina, the Company requiring the Employee, without his or her consent, to be based at any office or location more than 35 miles from the location at which the Employee was stationed immediately prior to a Change in Control, or (v) the continuing material breach by the Company of any employment agreement between the Employee and the Company after the expiration of any applicable period for cure.
 
K.
           
"Incentive Bonus Plan"  The annual cash incentive bonus plan established pursuant to the Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus adopted under the 2006 Incentive Plan.
 
L.
            
"Restricted Territory"  Restricted Territory means any state in the United States of America, or any state in Mexico, in which (i) the Company is conducting the
 
Company's Business on Employee's Termination Date, or (ii) the Company is planning to conduct the Company's Business on Employee's Termination Date and Employee has knowledge, or should have knowledge, of such Company plans.
 
M.
          
"Target Bonus"  Target Bonus means Employee's "target bonus" for the applicable fiscal year within the meaning of Section 4 of the Incentive Bonus Plan.
 
N.
           
"Trade Secret" 
Trade Secret of the Company means any item of Confidential Company Information that constitutes a trade secret under the common law or statutory law of the State of North Carolina, namely N.C. Gen. Stat.  66-152 , but such definition of "Trade Secret" shall not alter either the Company's rights or Employee's obligations under any state or federal statutory or common law regarding trade secrets and unfair trade practices.
et seq.
 
O.
           
"2006 Incentive Plan"  The Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan, as in effect from time to time.
 
3.
            
Severance Upon Termination without Cause Prior to a Change in Control
 Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 5 and 8 hereunder, in the event of Employee's termination by the Company without Cause or due to Employee's Disability or death, in each case prior to a Change in Control, the Company shall provide Employee with the following severance benefits:
 
A.
           
The Company shall continue the payment of Employee's base salary in effect on the date of such termination of employment for a period of twelve (12) months.  Such salary continuation payments shall be paid in a series of substantially equal installments in accordance with the regular payroll practices of the Company as in effect as of the date of termination over said period, commencing as soon as administratively practicable, but in no event more than sixty (60) days, following the Participant's date of termination of employment (except as otherwise required by Paragraph 14).  Such salary continuation payments shall not be considered eligible compensation under any of the Company's employee benefit plans.
 
B.
           
If Employee's date of termination of employment is after the end of the Company's fiscal year but prior to the payment date of any bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan for such fiscal year, the Company shall pay Employee the portion of the Target Bonus earned by Employee for such fiscal year according to the terms of the Incentive Bonus Plan (i.e., based on the Company's applicable performance level and, to the extent applicable, Employee's performance rating for the fiscal year), without regard to any requirement in the Incentive Bonus Plan otherwise requiring Employee to remain employed through the bonus payment date.  In addition, Employee shall be eligible to receive a pro rated bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan for the fiscal year of the Company in which such termination of employment occurs, without regard to any requirement in the Incentive Bonus Plan otherwise requiring Employee to remain employed through the bonus payment date, based on the number of completed weeks during the applicable fiscal year through the date of termination of employment and
 
further based on the Company's applicable performance level for the fiscal year and, if available and to the extent applicable, Employee's performance rating for the fiscal year (or if no such performance rating is available, assuming a performance rating of "satisfactory" or its equivalent).  Any such payment shall be made to Employee at the same time the Company makes payments to other participants in the Incentive Bonus Plan.
 
C.
           
For the number of months set forth in clause A above after Employee's date of termination of employment, but not to exceed 18 months, the Company shall continue to provide health insurance coverage and benefits to Employee and Employee's dependents as if Employee's employment had not been terminated, including but not limited to the provision of the Company's Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan (the "MERP"). Any period during which health benefits are continued pursuant to this Paragraph shall be considered to be in satisfaction of the Company's obligation to provide "continuation coverage" pursuant to Section 4980B of the Code, and the period of coverage required under said Section 4980B shall be reduced by the period during which health benefits were provided pursuant to this Paragraph.
 
Such payments and benefits provided by the Company to Employee as set forth in Paragraphs 3 A, B and C are herein called "Termination Compensation."  Such Termination Compensation shall be reduced, in whole or in part, by: (x) all other salary, bonus, consulting fees or other compensation received by or payable to Employee for services rendered in any capacity to any third party during the period that such Termination Compensation is paid; (y) all disability or life insurance payments made pursuant to disability or life insurance policies provided by and paid for by the Company to Employee and which payments are received during the period that such Termination Compensation is paid; and (z) comparable health insurance coverage actually received by Employee for services rendered in any capacity to any third party during the period that such Termination Compensation is paid.  The Employee agrees to pursue reasonable, good faith efforts to obtain other employment in a position suitable to Employee's background and experience. Moreover, Employee agrees to notify the Company within three business days of obtaining other employment during the time period in which Employee is receiving Termination Compensation.  Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, Employee's Termination Compensation shall be subject to forfeiture as set forth below in Paragraph Five.
 
4.
            
Severance Payable in connection with a Change in Control
  In the event of a Change in Control and a termination of Employee's employment within 24 months after such Change in Control either by the Company without Cause or by Employee for Good Reason, the Company shall provide Employee with the following severance benefits:
 
A.
           
The Company shall pay to Employee in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the date of such termination of employment an amount equal to the product of (x) eighteen (18) months and (y) the sum of (A) Employee's monthly base salary at the highest annual rate in effect during the period beginning immediately prior to the Change in Control through the date of Employee's termination of employment and (B) the monthly equivalent of the average of the bonuses, if any, paid or payable to Employee under the Incentive Bonus Plan for each of the three (3) fiscal years preceding the fiscal year in which Employee's termination of
 
employment occurs (or such fewer number of fiscal years for which Employee was eligible to receive a bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan).
 
B.
           
For the number of months represented by the multiple set forth in clause A (x) above after Employee's date of termination of employment, but not to exceed 18 months, the Company shall continue to provide health insurance coverage and benefits to Employee and Employee's dependents as if Employee's employment had not been terminated, including but not limited to the provision of the Company's Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan (the "MERP"). Any period during which health benefits are continued pursuant to this Paragraph shall be considered to be in satisfaction of the Company's obligation to provide "continuation coverage" pursuant to Section 4980B of the Code, and the period of coverage required under said Section 4980B shall be reduced by the period during which health benefits were provided pursuant to this Paragraph.  Such health insurance coverage shall be subject to offset as provided in Paragraph 3 above for comparable coverage received by Employee from a third party during the continuation period.
 
The Employee's right in connection with or following a Change in Control to receive a pro rata bonus under the Incentive Bonus Plan or any other incentive compensation program under the 2006 Incentive Plan shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 15.7 of the 2006 Incentive Plan.
 
5.
            
Restrictive Covenants; Non-Disclosure Obligations; Forfeiture of Termination Compensation.
 Employee and the Company understand and agree that the purpose of the provisions of this Paragraph 5 is to protect the legitimate business interests of the Company, especially within the multi-merchandise retail industry, in light of Employee's leadership position with the Company and exposure and access to Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets.  Employee and the Company further agree and understand that the multi-merchandise retail industry and the Company's Business are national in scope and that the Company has plans to expand the Company's Business internationally.  Employee acknowledges that the employment and post-employment restrictions set forth in this Paragraph 5 are therefore reasonable in that these restrictions are limited to the multi-merchandise retail industry and to the legitimate protection of the Company's Business, and that they do not, and will not, unduly impair Employee's ability to earn a living during or after Employee's employment with the Company.  As a result of Employee's educational background, prior work experience, and Employee's employment and position with the Company, Employee possesses general skills and knowledge enabling Employee, if need be, to pursue profitable work in businesses not competitive with the Company's Business.
 
Therefore, in consideration of
good and valuable consideration to which Employee was not previously entitled, including, without limitation, as is set forth in Paragraph 1.B above, Employee agrees as follows:
 
A.
           
Covenant Not to Compete
.
 
(i)
           
Employee agrees that during Employee's employment with the Company and for the period of twelve (12) months immediately following Employee's
 
Termination Date
(such period not to include any period(s) of violation or period(s) of time required for litigation to enforce the provisions of this Paragraph 5.A(i)) (the "Restricted Period"), Employee shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, directly or indirectly, accept, obtain, or hold a Competitive Position within the Restricted Territory with a Competitor.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 5.A(i) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
 
(ii)           Employee agrees that in the event Employee, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly accepts, obtains, or holds a Competitive Position within the Restricted Territory with a Competitor during the period between the expiration date of the Restricted Period and the date of the Company's final payment to Employee of any Termination Compensation under this Agreement (the "Concluding Compensation Period"), the Company shall be entitled to terminate any compensation, benefits, and/or remaining payments of the Termination Compensation otherwise payable to Employee under this Agreement and Employee forfeits such Termination Compensation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 5.A (ii) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
 
(iii)          Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employee may, as a passive investor, own capital stock of a publicly held corporation, which is actively traded in the over-the-counter market or is listed and traded on a national securities exchange, which constitutes or is affiliated with a Competitor, so long as Employee's ownership is not in excess of five percent (5%) of the total outstanding capital stock of the Competitor.
 
B.            .
Non-Solicitation of Company Employees
 
(i)            Employee
understands and agrees that the relationship between the Company and each of its employees constitutes a valuable asset of the Company and may not be converted to Employee's own use or benefit, or for the use or benefit of any other third party.  Accordingly, Employee hereby agrees that during Employee's employment and during the Restricted Period, Employee shall not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, (A) solicit or recruit for employment; hire; attempt to solicit or recruit for employment; attempt to hire; or accept as an employee, consultant, contractor, or otherwise, any Company employee, or (B) urge; encourage; induce; or attempt to urge, encourage, or induce, any Company employee to terminate his or her employment with Company; or (C) otherwise interfere with the Company's relationship with any Company employee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 5.B(i) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
 
(ii)           Employee agrees that in the event Employee, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, (A) solicits or recruits for employment; hires; attempts to solicit or recruit for employment; attempts to hire; or accepts as an employee, consultant, contractor, or otherwise, any Company employee, or (B) urges; encourages; induces; or attempts to urge, encourage, or induce, any Company employee to terminate his or her employment with Company; or (C) otherwise interferes with the Company's relationship with any Company employee during the Concluding Compensation Period, the Company shall be
 
entitled to terminate any compensation, benefits, and/or remaining payments of the Termination Compensation otherwise payable to Employee under this Agreement and Employee forfeits such Termination Compensation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Paragraph 5.B(ii) shall apply from and after a Change in Control.
not
 
C.           
Non-Disclosure of Confidential Company Information; Trade Secret Protections
.  Employee recognizes and acknowledges that during the course of Employee's employment, the Company has provided and will continue to provide Employee with exposure and access to Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets of the Company, or confidential information belonging to other third parties who may have furnished such information to the Company under obligations of confidentiality.  Employee, therefore, agrees that during Employee's employment with the Company and at all times after Employee's Termination Date, Employee shall not disclose any such Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets, or other information subject to an obligation of the Company to keep confidential, to any third party not employed by or otherwise expressly affiliated with the Company for any reason or purpose whatsoever, and shall not use such Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets except on behalf of the Company.
 
D.            .  Employee acknowledges and agrees that (i) the restrictive covenants in this Paragraph 5 are reasonable in time, territory and scope, and in all other respects; (ii) should any part or provision of any covenant be held invalid, void or unenforceable in any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity, voidness, or unenforceability shall not render invalid, void or unenforceable any other part or provision of this Agreement; and (iii) if any portion of the foregoing provisions is found to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction because its duration, territory, definition of activities or definition of information covered is considered to be invalid or unreasonable in scope, the invalid or unreasonable terms shall be redefined, or a new enforceable term provided, such that the intent of the Company and Employee in agreeing to the provisions of this Agreement will not be impaired and the provision in question shall be enforceable to the fullest extent of the applicable laws.  The restrictive covenants contained herein shall be construed as agreements independent of any other provision in this Agreement and the existence of any claim or cause of action of Employee against the Company, whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of this restrictive covenant.  Any decision in one state or jurisdiction invalidating or holding unenforceable any provision of this Paragraph 5 shall not be binding in any other state or jurisdiction.
Employee Acknowledgement
 
6.
            
Other
Post-Termination Covenants.
 
A.            Employee agrees that Employee shall resign and does resign from all positions as an officer and director of the Company and from any other positions, with such resignations to be effective upon Employee's Termination Date.
 
B.            Upon Employee's Termination Date, Employee agrees not to make any statements to the Company's employees, customers, vendors, or suppliers or to any public or media source, whether written or oral, regarding Employee's employment or termination from the Company's employment, except as may be approved in writing by an executive officer of the
 
Company in advance.  The Employee further agrees not to make any statement (including to any media source, or to the Company's suppliers, customers or employees) or take any action that would disrupt, impair, embarrass, harm or affect adversely the Company or any of the employees, officers, directors, or customers of the Company or place the Company or such individuals in any negative light.
 
C.            Following Employee's Termination Date, Employee covenants to render further advice and assistance to the Company as may be required from time to time, and to provide all information available to Employee on matters handled by and through Employee while employed by the Company or of which Employee has personal knowledge, and by making available to the Company at reasonable times and circumstances, upon request by the Company, information pertinent to its operations in Employee's possession; and, to the extent that it is necessary, to cooperate with and assist the Company to conclude any matters that are pending and which may require Employee's assistance; provided, that he shall be paid reasonable compensation by the Company in the event Employee is required to expend time in the performance of such services; and provided further, that Employee may perform such services in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere with other employment obtained by Employee.  The Employee shall be reimbursed for any expenses incurred by Employee in the performance of the covenants herein set forth in this Paragraph 6.C.
 
In addition, Employee agrees to cooperate with and provide assistance to the Company and its legal counsel in connection with any litigation (including arbitration or administrative hearings) or investigation affecting the Company, in which, in the reasonable judgment of the Company's counsel, Employee's assistance or cooperation is needed.  The Employee shall, when requested by the Company, provide testimony or other assistance and shall travel at the Company's request in order to fulfill this obligation.  In connection with such litigation or investigation, the Company shall attempt to accommodate Employee's schedule, shall reimburse Employee (unless prohibited by law) for any actual loss of wages in connection therewith, shall provide Employee with reasonable notice in advance of the times in which Employee's cooperation or assistance is needed, and shall reimburse Employee for any reasonable expenses incurred in connection with such matters.
 
7.  Upon Employee's Termination Date, Employee shall, as soon as possible but no later than two (2) days from Employee's Termination Date, surrender to the Company all Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets in Employee's possession and return to the Company all Company property in Employee's possession or control, including but not limited to, all paper records and documents, computer disks and access cards and keys to any Company facilities.
             Delivery of Property upon Termination.
 
8.               Because Employee's services to the Company are special and unique and because Employee has been exposed to and has had access to Confidential Company Information and Trade Secrets, Employee and the Company agree that any breach or threatened breach of the provisions of Paragraphs 5.A(i), 5.B(i), 5.C, and 6 would cause irreparable injury to the Company and that money damages would not provide an adequate remedy to the Company.  In the event of a breach or threatened breach of Paragraphs 5.A(i), 5.B(i), 5.C, or 6 of this Agreement, the Company or its successors or
Enforcement of Restrictions in Paragraphs 5 and 6.
 
assigns may, in addition to any other rights and remedies existing in their favor, apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for specific performance; temporary, preliminary, and permanent injunctive relief; expedited discovery; or other equitable relief in order to enforce or prevent any violations of any such provisions (without posting a bond or other security).  The Company shall be specifically entitled to an injunction restraining Employee from disclosing any Confidential Company Information or Trade Secrets, and, further, from accepting or continuing any employment with or rendering any services, or continuing to render services, to any such third-party to whom any Confidential Company Information or Trade Secret has been disclosed or is threatened to be disclosed by Employee.
 
In addition to the foregoing and not in any way in limitation thereof, or in limitation of any right or remedy otherwise available to the Company, if Employee violates any provision of Paragraphs 5.A(i), 5.B(i), 5.C, and 6 of this Agreement: (i) any compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation then or thereafter due from the Company to Employee shall be terminated forthwith; (ii) the Company's obligation to pay or provide and Employee's right to receive such compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation shall terminate and be of no further force or effect; and (iii) upon demand by the Company, Employee shall repay to the Company any such compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation previously paid by the Company because of not being informed or aware of Employee's violation of a provision of Paragraphs 5.A(i), 5.B(i), 5.C, or 6 of this Agreement; in each case without limiting or affecting Employee's obligations under such Paragraphs 5.A(i), 5.B(i), 5.C, or 6 or the Company's other rights and remedies available at law or in equity, and provided that at least $20,000 of such compensation, benefits and/or Termination Compensation shall be retained by Employee representing the consideration Employee received in exchange for Employee's release and waiver of rights or claims under Paragraph 9 of this Agreement.
 
9.
            
Waiver and Release
.  In consideration for the payments and benefits provided and to be provided hereunder, Employee agrees that Employee will, upon termination of employment and as a condition to the Company's obligation to pay any severance benefits under this Agreement, deliver to the Company a fully executed release agreement substantially in a form then used by and agreeable to the Company and which shall fully and irrevocably release and discharge the Company, its directors, officers, and employees from any and all claims, charges, complaints, liabilities of any kind, known or unknown, owed to Employee.
 
10
.
          
Special Provisions
. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of any successor to or assignee of the Company, and Employee specifically agrees on demand to execute any and all necessary documents in connection with the performance of this Agreement.  No waiver by either party of any breach by the other of any provision hereof shall be deemed to be a waiver of any later or other breach thereof or as a waiver of any such or other provision of this Agreement.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared invalid or unenforceable as a matter of law, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement or of the remainder of this Agreement as a whole.
 
11.
          
Complete Agreement.
  This Agreement sets forth all of the terms of the understanding between the parties with reference to the subject matter set forth herein and may not be waived, changed, discharged or terminated orally or by any course of dealing between the
 
parties, but only by an instrument in writing signed by the party against whom any waiver, change, discharge or termination is sought. This Agreement revokes and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements, representations, promises and understandings, whether written or oral, between the parties.
 
12.           This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of North Carolina without regard to its choice of law or conflict of law principles.  Employee hereby expressly and irrevocably consentsto the venue and jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina, or any state court in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
Choice of Law; Consent to Jurisdiction. 
 
13.           .  All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered, if mailed by registered, certified or express mail, postage prepaid, or if delivered to a recognized courier service, addressed to Employee at the address shown on the Company's records for tax reporting purposes or to the Company as follows (or in either case to such other address as one party shall give the other in the manner provided herein):
Notices
 
 
14.             This Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A, to the extent applicable.  Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, this Agreement shall be interpreted, operated and administered consistent with this intent.  Each separate installment under this Agreement shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of determining whether such payment is subject to or exempt from compliance with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  In addition, in the event that Employee is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code (as determined in accordance with the methodology established by the Company as in effect on the date of termination of Employee's employment), any payment or benefits hereunder that are nonqualified deferred compensation subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code shall be provided to Employee no earlier than six (6) months after the date of Employee's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
Compliance with Code Section 409A.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.5
Section 1: Purpose
 
Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") maintains for the benefit of eligible individuals the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), which is intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of such individuals upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Company's operation is largely dependent.  These Guidelines for Long-Term Incentive Performance Share Rights Awards (the "Guidelines") are intended to implement the Plan by providing eligible Associates of the Company with an opportunity to participate in the Company's success by earning long-term incentive compensation awards in the form of shares of Company Stock ("Common Stock") within the framework of the Plan (the "Performance Share Rights Awards" or the "Awards"), and as further described in these Guidelines.
 
These Guidelines are adopted pursuant to relevant provisions of the Plan and are to be interpreted and applied in accordance with the terms and provisions thereof.   Specifically, these Guidelines provide for the grant of Performance Share Rights Awards under Article 9 of the Plan and, with respect to Associates in the position of Vice President or above, the grant of Qualified Performance-Based Awards under Article 14 of the Plan.  Unless otherwise provided herein, capitalized terms used in these Guidelines will have the meaning given such terms in the Plan.  If there is any conflict between these Guidelines and the Plan, the terms and provisions of the Plan shall control.
 
Section 2: Scope
 
The Guidelines cover Associates who are eligible for participation in the Plan under these Guidelines and are selected by the Committee for Performance Share Rights Awards identified in Section 1 above.  Awards under these Guidelines cover three (3) year performance periods relating to such Awards which generally track the Company's fiscal (not calendar) year that is the 12-month period that generally runs from approximately September 1st to August 31st (the "performance period").  The actual dates for the fiscal year are determined and announced by the Company at the beginning of each fiscal year.  See Section 7 below regarding transition periods.
 
Section 3: Eligibility for Awards and Payouts
 
The Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Committee") and/or management of the Company will determine annually which Associates are eligible to receive Performance Share Rights Awards under these Guidelines.  Participants are selected no later than 90 days following the beginning of each performance period or upon employment with the Company or promotion.
 
Annual Performance Share Rights Awards under these Guidelines will result in overlapping performance periods.  Additional eligibility requirements are as follows:
 
New Hire and Promotion Awards (New Equity Plan Participants)
 
An Associate who becomes eligible for a Performance Share Rights Award under these Guidelines after the beginning of a performance period, either because the Associate is newly hired or is promoted into a position covered by these Guidelines, will be granted an Award computed in accordance with these Guidelines.  The dollar value of an Award for the performance period beginning in the year in which the Associate is hired or promoted will be established based upon the Associate's position and prorated for the number of months remaining (rounded up to the next full month for any partial month of service) in the fiscal year of the Associate's hire or promotion (the "base line year").  The dollar value of the base line year Award will be prorated by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of calendar months remaining in the performance period at the date of hire or promotion (rounded up to the next full month for any partial month of service), and the denominator of which is the total number of calendar months in the performance period for any performance periods beginning prior to the year of hire or promotion.  The dollar amounts so awarded shall be converted into Performance Share Rights based on the fair value of the Performance Share Rights, as established from time to time by the Company.  Payments of all such Awards shall be subject to Company performance as outlined in Section 4 below.
                                         
 
Promotion Awards for Active Equity Plan Participants (Equity to Equity)
 
An Associate covered by these Guidelines who has a job change that results in a higher Performance Share Rights Award will have their Award for all pending performance periods as of the date of the job change adjusted upward on a pro rata basis.  The additional equity award will be calculated as the difference between the full year Award for the new position and the actual Award for the old position for each relevant performance period, prorated for the time in the new position.  Payments of all such Awards will be subject to Company performance as outlined in section 4 below.
                                         
 
Payout Eligibility
 
An Associate must be classified as a regular full-time employee during the entire performance period for which an Award is being made and at the time of the actual issuance of the Common Stock pursuant to the Performance Shares Rights Award in order to be issued Common Stock pursuant to an Award.
                                         
An Associate on leave of absence, regardless of type, will be issued Common Stock pursuant to a Performance Share Rights Award only upon return to regular, full time work/active status.  An Associate who is on an approved family medical leave or approved military leave will be issued Common Stock pursuant to such Award at the time such shares are issued even if the Associate has not returned to regular, full time work/active status at that time.
                                         
 
The Company will not issue common stock pursuant to the Performance Share Rights Award for any performance period if the Associate's most recent annual performance rating is Unsatisfactory/Does Not Meet Expectations.
                                         
 
These Guidelines do not in any manner restrict the right of the Company or the Associate to terminate employment at any time, for any reason, with or without cause.  See Section 5 below for further information on the consequences of termination of employment during a pending performance period.
                                         
 
Section 4: Payout Calculation of PSR Awards
 
At the time an Associate is selected for an Award under these Guidelines for a particular performance period, the Associate will be assigned a "target" number of shares of Common Stock to be earned if the Company's performance level is at the 50% level in comparison to the peer group (as set forth below) for the performance period.  "Target" is defined as the actual number of shares approved and awarded.  Any payout is based on cumulative yearly performance over the relevant performance period.  The Award will be expressed as a number of Performance Share Rights and will be evidenced by an Award Certificate consistent with the provisions of the Plan.  The actual payout for the performance period, if any, will be determined as a percentage of the target Award payout depending on Company performance.
 
Company performance for each performance period will be based equally upon (i) the Company's average annual return on equity ("ROE") for each fiscal year during the performance period and (ii) the Company's pre-tax net income growth rate over the performance period, compounded annually.  For purposes of these Guidelines, ROE will be calculated by dividing the Company's pre-tax net income for the relevant fiscal year by the total shareholders' equity.
                                         
 
Actual Company performance for each criteria above at the end of the relevant performance period is then measured against the performance of a peer group of companies selected prior to, or within 90 days after the beginning of, the performance period.  The Award levels for the relevant performance period will be adjusted at the end of the performance period to reflect the Company's performance relative to the peer group.  Any such adjustment will generally range from 0% (i.e., no payout for the performance period) to 200% of the target Award per the following chart (with linear interpolation between the thresholds set forth below):
                                         
 
 
In addition, under relevant provisions of the Plan, the determination of ROE and net-income-growth and the peer group of companies for the relevant performance period may be further adjusted, collectively or individually, to reflect extraordinary events or circumstances affecting the Company or its business, or any of the companies included in the peer group, which render any such goals or peer group selection unsuitable.
                                         
 
These Guidelines do not in any manner restrict the right of the Company to modify performance measures, targets, cycles, or any other term or condition of these Guidelines, as the Company deems it necessary or appropriate, subject to the terms of the Plan.
                                         
 
Section 5: Termination of Employment or Plan Participation
 
Notwithstanding anything in these Guidelines to the contrary, the following provisions will apply to any Associate whose employment with the Company terminates.
 
In the event of a termination of an Associate's employment, either (i) as a result of the Associate's death, Disability or Retirement (as defined by Article 2, section 3.1 (11) of the Incentive Plan) or (ii) by the Company without Cause, payments with respect to any outstanding Performance Share Rights Awards will be based on actual Company performance, as set forth in Section 4 above, over the three fiscal years immediately preceding the date of termination.  Common stock awarded pursuant to the Performance Share Rights will be issued on a pro-rata basis based on the actual number of months worked in each relevant performance period.  The pro ration will be determined by multiplying the number of Performance Shares Rights to which the Associate would have been entitled based on Company performance by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of calendar months in the performance period of the Associate's actual employment with the Company (including the full calendar month in which the Associate's employment terminated) and the denominator of which is the total number of calendar months in the performance period.  Payments under this paragraph will be made as soon as administratively convenient following the termination of the Associate's employment.
                                         
In the case of death or Disability, individual performance of the Associate will be ignored.  In either event, payments under this paragraph shall be made as soon as administratively convenient after termination of employment.
                                         
 
In the event of termination of an Associate's employment with the Company before the end of any relevant performance period or the actual issuance by the Company of Common Stock pursuant to the Performance Share Rights Award, either (i) by the Company for Cause, or (ii) by the Associate for any reason (other than death, Disability or Retirement), any outstanding Awards for all relevant performance periods will be immediately forfeited.
                                         
 
In the event that an active Associate leaves the Plan for any reason but remains employed by the company, the Associate's Performance Share rights will be paid on a pro-rata basis based on the actual number of months worked in each relevant performance period, including the full calendar month in which the Associate's plan participation ended. Payments will be made during the same cycle as active plan participants and will be subject to the Company performance criteria outlined in section 4 of this document.
                                         
 
To the extent an Associate is or becomes Retirement-eligible during a performance period, (i) the Associate will not be considered to have terminated from employment under these Guidelines unless the Associate has had a "separation from service" with the Company within the meaning of Code Section 409A and the Company's 409A Administrative Policies and (ii) to the extent required by Code Section 409A and the Company's 409A Administrative Policies, payment will not be made before the date that is six months after the Associate's termination from employment.
                                         
 
Section 6: Additional Rules
 
All payments under these Guidelines are considered supplemental pay and will be taxed as such.  Appropriate withholding and deductions will be taken from such payments.  In accordance with the Plan, the Company may require tax withholding to be satisfied through withholding of shares of Common Stock otherwise payable under the Award.
                                         
 
These Guidelines cannot be changed or modified by a verbal communication or course of dealing but only by a written communication signed by the Chairman, Vice Chairman, and/or the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") of the Company or any officer designated by one of them.
                                         
 
Payouts earned under these Guidelines are expected to be paid as soon as administratively convenient following the end of the relevant performance period in the form of one (1) share of the Company's Common Stock for each whole Performance Share Right that is payable under the Plan and these Guidelines,
                                         
rounded up to the next whole share.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may permit recipients of Awards to elect to defer receipt of payment of such Awards under such terms and conditions as the Company may prescribe in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 409A.
 
In the event of major economic changes, catastrophic events, or any other circumstances not contemplated by the Company (but subject to the Plan provisions relating to Qualified Performance-Based Awards), the Committee, the Chairman, Vice Chairman and/or the CEO of the Company reserves the right to alter, amend, or terminate these Guidelines and any Awards hereunder.
                                         
 
The Chairman of the Company will make all final decisions, rulings and interpretations under these Guidelines (subject to the Plan provisions relating to Qualified Performance- Based Awards, which may require action by the Committee).  By participating in the Plan under these Guidelines, each Associate agrees that such decisions, rulings and interpretations will be final and that each Associate will be bound by them.  Each Associate further agrees that if and when any circumstances arise relating to these Guidelines, which are not covered by this description of the Plan, the Associate will be bound by the final decision, ruling or interpretation of the Chairman.
                                         
 
Section 7: Transition Period
 
In addition to Performance Share Rights Awards made under these Guidelines for three year periods, during the Company's 2006 and 2007 fiscal years, Performance Share Rights Awards will be made to Associates participating in the Plan under these Guidelines for each of the 2006 and 2007 fiscal years based upon the Company's performance in each of such fiscal years as set forth in Section 4 above.  An Associate who is hired or is promoted into a position eligible to receive a Performance Share Rights Award under the Plan during 2006 or 2007 will be eligible to receive a prorated Performance Share Rights Award which is otherwise computed in the manner set forth in Section 3 above and subject to all other provisions of these Guidelines.
                                         
 
Section 8: Qualified Performance Based Awards
 
Notwithstanding anything in these Guidelines to the contrary, the following provisions will apply to any Associate who is a vice president or above at the time the Awards are established under these Guidelines.  Awards under this Section 8 are intended to satisfy the Section 162(m) Exemption applicable to Qualified Performance-Based Awards under Article 14 of the Plan.  Please refer to the Plan document for further information.
 
All determinations under these Guidelines will be made by the Committee which, pursuant to Section 4.1 of the Plan, will consist of all the members of the Compensation Committee who are "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
                                         
The Committee will establish within 90 days after the beginning of each performance period the target Award payout for each Associate covered by this Section 8, the peer group of companies and potential payout adjustments relating thereto for the relevant performance period.
                                         
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee will adjust ROE and net-income-growth, the peer group of companies and potential payout adjustments relating thereto for the relevant performance period, collectively or individually, with respect to each Associate covered by this Section 8 to adequately reflect the occurrence, during the performance period, of any of the events described in Sections 14.2 and 14.4 of the Plan.
                                         
 
Payment of any Award under these Guidelines to any Associate covered by this Section 8 is conditioned upon the written certification of the Committee that the performance goals and any other material conditions applicable to such Award were satisfied.
                                         
 
The Committee will retain the discretion to decrease, but not increase, the Award otherwise payable to any Associate covered by this Section 8 in accordance with the applicable performance formula described above.  In no event will the Award otherwise payable to any Associate covered by this Section 8 in accordance with the applicable performance formula described above exceed 1,000,000 shares of Company Stock.
                                         
 
Consistent with Section 1 above, payment of any Award under these Guidelines to any Associate covered by this Section 8 is conditioned upon the Plan having been previously approved by the shareholders of the Company.
                                         
 
Adopted:  September 28,2005
 
Amended:  January 19, 2006; March 27, 2007; August 28, 2007

Exhibit 10.6
1.             Purpose
 
Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") maintains for the benefit of eligible individuals the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan(the "Plan"),which is intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of such individuals upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Company's operation is largely dependent.  These (the "Guidelines") are intended to implement the Plan by providing eligible Associates of the Company an opportunity to participate in the Company's success by earning incentive compensation in the form of a based on the Company's achievement of pre-tax earnings goals and the Associates' contributions to meeting such goals.
Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards
annual
cash bonus
 
These Guidelines are adopted pursuant to relevant provisions of the Plan and are to be interpreted and applied in accordance with the terms and provisions thereof.  Specifically, these Guidelines provide for the grant of Performance-Based Cash Awards under Article 9 of the Plan and, with respect to Covered Employees, the grant of Qualified Performance-Based Awards under Article 14 of the Plan.  Unless otherwise provided herein, capitalized terms used in these Guidelines will have the meaning given such terms in the Plan.
 
2.             Scope
 
The Guidelines cover eligible Associates as described in Section 3 of these Guidelines.  The Guidelines cover the Company's fiscal (not calendar) year that is the 12-month period that generally runs from approximately September to August.  The actual dates for the fiscal year are determined and announced by the Company prior to the beginning of each fiscal year.
 
3.             Eligibility
 
Eligibility for participation in the Plan under these Guidelines shall be determined by any of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or their designees) and communicated to department heads.  Additional eligibility requirements are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.             Target Bonus Amount and Adjustments for Performance
 
The target bonus amount for an Associate under these Guidelines equals a percentage of the Associate's base compensation received in the relevant fiscal year, generally ranging from 10% to 100%.  (See above for changes in the Associate's position during the fiscal year.)  The applicable percentage for an Associate will be established by Human Resources and communicated to department heads.  The actual bonus amount for the fiscal year, if any, will be determined as a percentage of the target bonus amount depending on Company and individual performance as follows:
 
 
 
B.
           
Individual Associate performance level for the fiscal year as determined on a five point rating scale and the incentive grouping / position level of the Associate.
 
 
1.  Incentive Group 1
80/20 (80% individual performance, 20% Company performance)
2.  Incentive Group 2
60/40 (60% individual performance, 40% Company performance)
3.  Incentive Group 3
40/60 (40% individual performance, 60% Company performance)
4.  Incentive Group 4
20/80 (20% individual performance, 80% Company performance)
 
 
5.  Incentive Group 5
10/90 (10% individual performance, 90% Company performance)
6.  Incentive Group 6
100% (100% Company performance), subject to additional rules set forth below.
 
 
 
C.           
Qualified Performance-Based Awards
 
Notwithstanding anything in these Guidelines to the contrary, the following provisions will apply to any Associate who is a Covered Employee for purposes of benefiting from the Section 162(m) Exemption applicable to Qualified Performance-Based Awards under Article 14 of the Plan.  .
Please refer to the Plan document for further information
 
 
 
 
6.             Additional Rules
 
 
 
 
Adopted by the Compensation Committee: October 3, 2006
 
Amended: August 28, 2007, November 5, 2007, October 7, 2008
 


