FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20081121162210.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
At its meeting held on November 19, 2008, the Board of Directors of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") approved the form of an Indemnification Agreement to be entered into between the Company and its directors (the "Indemnification Agreement").  The Indemnification Agreements provide that the Company will indemnify and hold harmless a director if the director is made a party to or is otherwise involved in certain legal proceedings as a result of actions related to his or her service as a director.  Such indemnification includes all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and other amounts paid in settlement, provided that the director acted in good faith and in a manner the director reasonably believed to be in the best interests of the Company.  The Indemnification Agreements require the Company to advance the expenses incurred by a director in defending against any such proceeding.  However, the director must deliver an undertaking to the Company to repay all amounts advanced if it is ultimately determined that the director is not entitled to be indemnified.  The rights of the directors under the Indemnification Agreements are not exclusive and are in addition to their rights under the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and under applicable law.
 
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the terms of the Indemnification Agreements, and reference is made to the complete text of the Form of Indemnification Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.  The Form of Indemnification Agreement is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
At its meeting held on November 18, 2008, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the Company's Policy Regarding Tax Adjustments for Certain Severance Benefits (the "Policy").   In October of 2008, certain senior officers of the Company entered into Employment Agreements or Severance Agreements with the Company (the "Agreements").  The Policy sets forth certain circumstances in which the severance payments or benefits payable in connection with a change in control of the Company pursuant to the Agreements or the Company's 2006 Incentive Plan may be reduced in order to prevent the application of certain federal excise taxes.
 
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the terms of the Policy, and reference is made to the Policy attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.  The Policy is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) 
Exhibits
 
10.1  Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and its Directors
 
10.2  Policy regarding Tax Adjustments for Certain Severance Benefits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
This Indemnification Agreement (this "Agreement"), dated as of       , 2008, is made by and between Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and                (the "Indemnitee").
 
WHEREAS, the Indemnitee is a member of the Company's Board of Directors and, as a member of the Board, performs a valuable service for the Company;
 
WHEREAS, it is important that the Company retain and attract qualified and capable individuals to serve on the Company's Board of Directors;
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Indemnitee understand the risks of litigation and other legal proceedings currently facing directors of public corporations and the related exposure of directors to liability for the expenses associated with such litigation and other legal proceedings;
 
WHEREAS, The Company's Bylaws require the Company to indemnify its directors to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may be amended, with the limited exceptions provided therein;
 
WHEREAS, The Bylaws contemplate that agreements may be entered into between the Company and its directors with respect to indemnification;
 
WHEREAS, Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law ("DGCL") under which the Company is organized, empowers the Company to indemnify its directors by agreement and to indemnify persons who serve, at the request of the Company, as the directors or agents of other corporations or enterprises, and expressly provides that the indemnification provided by Section 145 is not exclusive;
 
WHEREAS, Section 102(b)(7) of the DGCL allows a Company to include in its certificate of incorporation a provision limiting or eliminating the personal liability of a director  and the Company has so provided in its Certificate of Incorporation that each director shall be exculpated from such liability to the maximum extent permitted by law;
 
WHEREAS, The parties have determined that contractual indemnification as set forth herein is reasonable and prudent and that such indemnification promotes stability on the Board, and therefore promotes the best interests of the Company and its stockholders;
 
WHEREAS, The Company desires that the Indemnitee serve or continue to serve as a director of the Company free from undue concern for damages and expenses arising out of or related to such services to the Company; and
 
WHEREAS, the Indemnitee is willing to serve, continue to serve or to provide additional service for or on behalf of the Company on the condition that he or she is furnished the indemnity and right to advancement of expenses provided for herein.
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above premises and of director's continued service as a member of the Board, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
.
1.
                                      
INDEMNIFICATION
 
Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, the Indemnitee if the Indemnitee was or is made or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any pending, threatened or completed action, suit, arbitration, alternative dispute resolution proceeding, investigation, administrative hearing, or other proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "Proceeding") by reason of the fact that the Indemnitee is or was a director of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director of another company or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, nonprofit entity, or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) reasonably incurred by such person.
(a)
                     
 
The indemnification provided by this Section 1 shall include all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee or on the Indemnitee's behalf in connection with any Proceeding and any appeal therefrom, provided however, that the Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe the Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful.
(b)
                    
 
The termination of any Proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that the Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful.
(c)
                     
 
. Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, the Company shall pay the expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred by the Indemnitee in defending any Proceeding in advance of its final disposition, provided, however, that such advancement of expenses shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the Indemnitee, substantially in the form attached hereto as or in such other form as the parties may approve, to repay all amounts advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified. 
2.
                                      
Advancement of Expenses
Exhibit A
 
The Indemnitee agrees to reimburse the Company for all reasonable expenses advanced under Section 2 in the event and only to the extent it shall ultimately be determined by a final adjudication that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company for such expenses.
3.
                                      
Repayment of Expenses
. 
4.
                                      
Claims for Indemnification or Advancement;
Determination of Eligibility.
 
(a) Any claim by the Indemnitee for indemnification or advancement of expenses under this Agreement shall be made in a writing delivered to the Company, setting forth in reasonable detail the basis for such indemnification or advancement and the amount requested, and accompanied by appropriate documentation to support the amount so requested (or, in the case of advancement of expenses to be incurred, the basis on which such amount is to be determined).  A claim for advancement may include future expenses reasonably expected to be incurred, provided they are generally described in the claim, and provided that the Company shall not be required to advance particular expenses covered by the claim until it has received appropriate substantiation that those expenses have been incurred and are appropriately included within the advances approved by the Company pursuant to this Section 4.
 
Promptly upon its receipt of a written claim for advancement of expenses to which the Indemnitee is entitled hereunder, and within sixty days after its receipt of a written claim for indemnity to which the Indemnitee is entitled hereunder, the Company shall pay such advancement (and any future related submissions for advancement of expenses as they are incurred) or such claim for indemnity in full to or as directed by the Indemnitee.  If and to the extent it is required by law that the Company make any particular determination as to the Indemnitee's eligibility to receive such advancements or indemnity, or whether the Indemnitee has met the standards set forth in Section 1(b) hereof, the Company shall make such determination as promptly as practicable in good faith and in accordance with such requirements of law, and in any event within sixty days after its receipt of the claim from the Indemnitee.  In the event that the Company fails to make such determination as to the Indemnitee's eligibility, or makes a determination that the Indemnitee is ineligible for indemnification or advancement of expenses hereunder, within such sixty day period, then the Indemnitee may seek such determination from a court of competent jurisdiction.  In any such proceeding, the Company shall have the burden of proving that the Indemnitee was not entitled to the requested indemnification or advancement of expenses, and any prior determination by the Company to the contrary shall be to no effect and shall not be given any weight by the court, it being the intention of the parties that any determination by the court as to the Indemnitee's eligibility for and entitlement to indemnification or advancement of expenses hereunder shall be made de novo based upon the terms of this Agreement and the evidence presented to such court.
(b) 
 
.  In addition to the limitations on Indemnification set forth in Section 1(b) above, the Company shall not be obligated pursuant to this Agreement
5.
                                      
Further Limitations on Indemnification
:
 
(a) . To indemnify or advance expenses to the Indemnitee with respect to a Proceeding initiated by the Indemnitee, except (i) for Proceedings authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Company; or (ii) in the event a claim for indemnification or payment of expenses (including attorneys' fees) made under this Agreement is not paid in full within sixty days after a written claim therefor has been received by the Company, the Indemnitee may file suit to recover the
                                                                                               
Claims Initiated by Indemnitee
unpaid amount of such claim and, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense ofprosecuting such claim, including attorneys' fees.  In any such action the Company shall have the burden of proving that the Indemnitee was not entitled to the requested indemnification or payment of expenses under applicable law or this Agreement.
 
(b) . To indemnify the Indemnitee for any expenses incurred by the Indemnitee with respect to any Proceeding instituted by the Indemnitee to enforce or interpret this Agreement, unless the Indemnitee is successful in establishing the Indemnitee's right to indemnification in such Proceeding, in whole or in part; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 5(b) is intended to limit the Company's obligation with respect to the advancement of expenses to the Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding instituted by the Indemnitee to enforce or interpret this Agreement, as provided in Section 4 hereof.
Action for Indemnification
 
(c) .  To indemnify the Indemnitee in connection with proceedings or claims involving the enforcement of the provisions of any employment, severance or compensation plan or agreement that the Indemnitee may be a party to, or beneficiary of, with the Company or any of the Company's subsidiaries.
Certain Plans and Agreements
 
.  The right conferred on the Indemnitee by this Agreement shall not be exclusive of any other rights which the Indemnitee may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, or under any insurance maintained by the Company; but such rights in the aggregate shall not entitle the Indemnitee to duplicative multiple recoveries.  The Indemnitee's rights hereunder shall continue after Indemnitee has ceased acting as a director of the Company and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of the Indemnitee.
6.
                                      
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
 
.
7.
                                      
Savings Clause
 
If any provision or provisions of this Agreement shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Company shall nevertheless indemnify the Indemnitee as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including an action by or in the right of the Company, to the full extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Agreement that shall not have been invalidated and to the full extent permitted by applicable law.
(a)
         
 
(b)  No amendment or alteration of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or any other agreement shall adversely affect the rights provided to the Indemnitee under this Agreement.
.  No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto.  No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provision hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
8.
                                      
Modification and Waiver
 
.  All of the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives. The Company shall require and cause any direct or indirect successor (whether by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company, by written agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnitee, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.
9.
                                      
Successor and Assigns
 
.  This Agreement shall be governed exclusively by and construed according to the laws of the State of Delaware, as applied to contracts between Delaware residents entered into and to be performed entirely within Delaware.  If a court of competent jurisdiction shall make a final determination that the provisions of the law of any state other than Delaware govern indemnification by the Company of its directors or former directors, then the indemnification provided under this Agreement shall in all instances be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted under such law, notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary.
10.
                                
Governing Law
 
.   This Agreement has been negotiated at arms length and constitutes a fair and reasonable agreement amongst the parties.  No party shall be deemed to be the drafter of this Agreement or of any particular provision or provisions, and no part of the Agreement shall be construed against any party on the basis of that party's identity as the drafter of this Agreement.
11.
                                
Agreement Construction
 
. The section and subsection headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
12.
                                
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered to be effective as of the date first above written.
 
 
FAMILY DOLLAR STORES, INC.
 
 
 
INDEMNITEE:
 
 
The Undersigned has requested that the Company pay for or reimburse the attorney's fees, disbursements, and other costs and expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the Undersigned in connection with the defense of [name of Proceeding] (the "Proceeding") and matters that may arise in connection therewith.
 
The Undersigned hereby affirms [his or her] good faith belief that, with respect to the Proceeding and all matters giving rise to the Proceeding or in connection therewith during [his or her] service as a director of the Company, [he or she]:  (i) acted in good faith; (ii) has acted in a manner [he or she] reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company; and (iii) with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that [his or her]  conduct was unlawful.
1.
                                      
 
The Undersigned hereby agrees to repay to the Company any funds (i) advanced to the Undersigned in connection with the Proceeding and matters that may arise in connection therewith or (ii) paid on behalf of the Undersigned in advance of the final disposition of the Proceeding and matters that may arise in connection therewith in the event that it is ultimately determined by a final non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction that the Undersigned is not entitled to indemnification of expenses in connection with the defense of the Proceeding.
2.
                                      
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
1.             .  Certain senior officers of the Company (the "Employees") have entered into Employment Agreements or Severance Agreements with the Company (the "Agreements").  These Agreements provide for certain severance payments and benefits in case of a qualifying termination following a change in control of the Company.  In addition, under the Company's 2006 Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the vesting of certain equity compensation awards of the Employees may be accelerated in case of a qualifying termination of employment following a change in control.  The purpose of this Policy is to describe the circumstances in which the severance payments or benefits under the Agreements and the Plan may be cut back in order to prevent the application of certain excise taxes under federal income tax rules related to severance payments or benefits that are contingent upon a change in control.
Background
 
2.             .  Notwithstanding anything in an Agreement or the Plan to the contrary, in the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution of any type to an Employee, pursuant to the Employee's Agreement or the Plan, including accelerated vesting, to or for the benefit of the Employee, by the Company or any Person (as the term "person" is used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) who acquires ownership or effective control of the Company or ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and the regulations thereunder) or any Affiliate of such Person, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of the Employee's Agreement, the Plan, or otherwise (the "Payments"), is or will be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), the Payments shall be reduced (but not below zero) if and to the extent that such reduction would result in the Employee retaining a larger amount, on an after-tax basis (taking into account federal, state and local income taxes and the imposition of the Excise Tax), than if the Employee received all of the Payments.  The Company shall reduce or eliminate the Payments, by first reducing or eliminating the portion of the Payments which are not payable in cash and then by reducing or eliminating cash payments, in each case in reverse order beginning with payments or benefits which are to be paid the farthest in time from the determination.  All determinations concerning the application of this Policy shall be made by a nationally recognized firm of independent accountants or any nationally recognized financial planning and benefits consulting company, selected by the Company and reasonably satisfactory to the Employee, whose determination shall be conclusive and binding on all parties. The fees and expenses of such accountants shall be borne by the Company.  The Company shall hold in confidence and not disclose, without the Employee's prior written consent, any information with regard to the Employee's tax position which the Company obtains pursuant to this Policy.
Adjustments to Payments
 
3.             .  The  Company shall obtain the consent of each Employee to the application of this Policy to the Employee's Agreement and awards under the Plan.
Employee Consent
 
 
                IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has adopted this Policy as of November 18, 2008.
 
 
The undersigned Employee hereby consents and agrees to the application to Employee of the Company's Policy Regarding Tax Adjustments for Certain Severance Benefits (a copy of which has been previously furnished), including without limitation to any severance payments or benefits that may be applicable under Employee's "Agreement" or the "Plan" (as such terms are defined in the Policy).  Employee further agrees that in the event of any material amendment to the Internal Revenue Code, the Policy may be further amended by the Company, provided such amendment does not materially reduce the payments to the Employee pursuant to the Agreement and/or the Plan, as modified by this Policy.
 
 
 


