FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20091016164402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2010 Named Executive Officer Compensation.
At its meeting held on October 13, 2009, the Compensation Committee approved fiscal year 2010 annual compensation packages for the Company's principal executive officer ("PEO"), principal financial officer ("PFO") and the three most highly compensated executive officers other than the PEO and PFO who were serving as executive officers of the Company at the end of the Company's fiscal year ended August 29, 2009 (collectively, "named executive officers"), as follows:
 
(1) Increases to base salaries effective retroactive to August 29, 2009.
(2) Pursuant to the Company's 2006 Incentive Plan.
As a result of her promotion to Executive Vice President  Chief Merchandising Officer in August 2009, Ms. Flur was also awarded an additional 726 performance share rights for the fiscal 2008  2010 performance period and 1,452 performance share rights for the fiscal 2009  2011 performance period.
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the compensation terms of the named executive officers and reference is made to the following Company plans with respect to various aspects of the compensation packages awarded to each named executive officer: (i) Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on January 7, 2009); (ii) Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this filing); (iii) Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan
Guidelines for Long-Term Incentive Performance Share Rights Awards
2006 Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant
 
(filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 25, 2006); and (iv) the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this filing).
Program
Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards
Amendment of Guidelines for Long-Term Incentive Performance Share Rights Awards and for Annual Cash Bonus Awards, each as adopted pursuant to the Company's 2006 Incentive Plan.
At its meeting held on October 13, 2009, the Compensation Committee amended the 2006 Incentive Plan (the "PSR Guidelines") to (i) provide that a team member will not be granted a target performance share rights award for any performance period that will lapse within six months from that team member's date of hire; (ii) to ensure compliance with certain provisions of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code; and (iii) to clarify the timing of payments made to certain eligible participants under the PSR Guidelines.
Guidelines for Long-Term Incentive Performance Share Rights Awards
The Compensation Committee also amended the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (the "Cash Bonus Awards Guidelines") to clarify the timing of payments made to certain eligible participants.
Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the PSR Guidelines or the Cash Bonus Awards Guidelines and reference is made to the complete text of the PSR Guidelines, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, and the Cash Bonus Awards Guidelines, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2, both of which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d)
Exhibits
10.1  2006 Incentive Plan Guidelines for Long-Term Performance Share Rights Awards
10.2  2006 Incentive Plan Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Section 1: Purpose
Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") maintains for the benefit of eligible individuals the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), which is intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of such individuals upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Company's operation is largely dependent. These Guidelines for Long-Term Incentive Performance Share Rights Awards (the "Guidelines") are intended to implement the Plan by providing eligible Team Members of the Company with an opportunity to participate in the Company's success by earning long-term incentive compensation awards in the form of shares of Company Stock ("Common Stock") within the framework of the Plan (the "Performance Share Rights Awards" or the "Awards"), and as further described in these Guidelines.
These Guidelines are adopted pursuant to relevant provisions of the Plan and are to be interpreted and applied in accordance with the terms and provisions thereof. Specifically, these Guidelines provide for the grant of Performance Share Rights Awards under Article 9 of the Plan and, with respect to Team Members in the position of Vice President or above, the grant of Qualified Performance-Based Awards under Article 14 of the Plan. Unless otherwise provided herein, capitalized terms used in these Guidelines will have the meaning given such terms in the Plan. If there is any conflict between these Guidelines and the Plan, the terms and provisions of the Plan shall control.
Section 2: Scope
The Guidelines cover Team Members who are eligible for participation in the Plan under these Guidelines and are selected by the Committee for Performance Share Rights Awards identified in Section 1 above. Awards under these Guidelines cover three (3) year performance periods relating to such Awards which generally track the Company's fiscal (not calendar) year that is the 12-month period that generally runs from approximately September 1
st
to August 31
st.
(the "performance period"). The actual dates for the fiscal year are determined and announced by the Company at the beginning of each fiscal year. See Section 7 below regarding transition periods.
Section 3: Eligibility for Awards and Payouts
The Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Committee") and/or management of the Company will determine annually which Team Members are eligible to receive Performance Share Rights Awards under these Guidelines. Participants are selected no later than 90 days following the beginning of each performance period or upon
employment with the Company or promotion. Annual Performance Share Rights Awards under these Guidelines will result in overlapping performance periods. Additional eligibility requirements are as follows:
New Hire and Promotion Awards (New Equity Plan Participants)
 
Promotion Awards for Active Equity Plan Participants (Equity to Equity)
 
Payout Eligibility
 
 
 
 
Section 4: Payout Calculation of PSR Awards
At the time a Team Member is selected for an Award under these Guidelines for a particular performance period, the Team Member will be assigned a "target" number of shares of Common Stock to be earned if the Company's performance level is at the 50% level in comparison to the peer group (as set forth below) for the performance period. "Target" is defined as the actual number of shares approved and awarded. Any payout is based on cumulative yearly performance over the relevant performance period. The Award will be expressed as a number of Performance Share Rights and will be evidenced by an Award Certificate consistent with the provisions of the Plan. The actual payout for the performance period, if any, will be determined as a percentage of the target Award payout depending on Company performance.
 
 
 
 
Section 5: Termination of Employment or Plan Participation
Notwithstanding anything in these Guidelines to the contrary, the following provisions will apply to any Team Member whose employment with the Company terminates.
 
 
 
 
 
Section 6: Additional Rules
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7: Qualified Performance Based Awards
Notwithstanding anything in these Guidelines to the contrary, the following provisions will apply to any Team Member who is a vice president or above at the time the Awards are granted under these Guidelines. Awards under this Section 7 are intended to satisfy the Section 162(m) Exemption applicable to Qualified Performance-Based Awards under Article 14 of the Plan. Please refer to the Plan document for further information.
 
 
 
 
 
Adopted: September 28, 2005
Amended: January 19, 2006; March 27, 2007; August 28, 2007; October 13, 2009

Exhibit 10.2
 
Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") maintains for the benefit of eligible individuals the Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), which is intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of such individuals upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Company's operation is largely dependent. These (the "Guidelines") are intended to implement the Plan by providing eligible Team Members of the Company an opportunity to participate in the Company's success by earning incentive compensation in the form of a based on the Company's achievement of pre-tax earnings goals and the Team Members' contributions to meeting such goals.
Guidelines for Annual Cash Bonus Awards
annual
cash bonus
These Guidelines are adopted pursuant to relevant provisions of the Plan and are to be interpreted and applied in accordance with the terms and provisions thereof. Specifically, these Guidelines provide for the grant of Performance-Based Cash Awards under Article 9 of the Plan and, with respect to Covered Employees, the grant of Qualified Performance-Based Awards under Article 14 of the Plan. Unless otherwise provided herein, capitalized terms used in these Guidelines will have the meaning given such terms in the Plan.
 
The Guidelines cover eligible Team Members as described in Section 3 of these Guidelines. The Guidelines cover the Company's fiscal (not calendar) year that is the 12-month period that generally runs from approximately September to August. The actual dates for the fiscal year are determined and announced by the Company prior to the beginning of each fiscal year.
 
Eligibility for participation in the Plan under these Guidelines shall be determined by any of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or their designees) and communicated to department heads. Additional eligibility requirements are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The target bonus amount for a Team Member under these Guidelines equals a percentage of the Team Member's base compensation received in the relevant fiscal year, generally ranging from 10% to 100%. (See above for changes in the Team Member's position during the fiscal year.) The applicable percentage for a Team Member will be established by Human Resources and communicated to department heads. The actual bonus amount for the fiscal year, if any, will be determined as a percentage of the target bonus amount depending on Company and individual performance as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Incentive Group 1
80/20 (80% individual performance, 20% Company performance)
2. Incentive Group 2
60/40 (60% individual performance, 40% Company performance)
3. Incentive Group 3
40/60 (40% individual performance, 60% Company performance)
4. Incentive Group 4
20/80 (20% individual performance, 80% Company performance)
5. Incentive Group 5
10/90 (10% individual performance, 90% Company performance)
6. Incentive Group 6
100% (100% Company performance), subject to additional rules set forth below.
 
 
Notwithstanding anything in these Guidelines to the contrary, the following provisions will apply to any Team Member who is a Covered Employee for purposes of benefiting from the Section 162(m) Exemption applicable to Qualified Performance-Based Awards under Article 14 of the Plan. .
Please refer to the Plan document for further information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adopted by the Compensation Committee: October 3, 2006
Amended: August 28, 2007; November 5, 2007; October 7, 2008; October 13, 2009


