FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20101006081013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  October 5, 2010
Family Dollar Stores, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:      (704) 847-6961
(see General Instruction A.2 below) [  ]   [  ]   [  ]   [  ]  
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On October 5, 2010, Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the Company) entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the Bank) under which the Company will repurchase shares of its common stock. The Company is repurchasing shares under the ASR Agreement as part of its previously announced $750 million share repurchase authorization. Under the ASR Agreement, the Company will pay an aggregate of $250 million to the Bank on October 7, 2010 for a number of shares that will be determined based on average prices of the Companys common stock during a specified valuation period. The Company is funding the repurchase with cash on hand.
The valuation period under the ASR Agreement begins on October 7, 2010, and is expected to end during the second quarter of fiscal 2011, but the Bank may accelerate the end of the valuation period. Certain events, such as market disruption events or regulatory disruption events, may result in the valuation period being extended.  
When the Company makes its $250 million payment on October 7, 2010, it will receive from the Bank approximately 4.4 million shares of common stock. The actual number of shares that the Company will repurchase under the ASR Agreement will be determined based on a discount to the average price of the Companys common stock over the course of the valuation period.  If the actual number of shares repurchased exceeds the number of shares initially delivered, the Company will receive from the Bank a number of additional shares equal to such excess following the conclusion of the valuation period.  If the actual number of shares repurchased is less than the number of shares initially delivered, the Company will be required, at its election, to either (i) deliver to the Bank a number of shares equal to the difference or (ii) make a cash payment to the Bank equal to the value of that number of shares, in either case following the conclusion of the valuation period.
The ASR Agreement is subject to terms customary for similar agreements, including providing for the effects of extraordinary corporate transactions and setting forth circumstances under which the agreement may be terminated early.
The Bank and its affiliates have performed, and may in the future perform, various commercial banking and other financial advisory services for the Company and its subsidiaries for which they have received, and will receive, customary fees and expenses.
The foregoing description of the ASR Agreement is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the ASR Agreement, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 28, 2010.
On October 6, 2010, the Company issued a news release announcing the accelerated stock repurchase described above.  A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
-2-
(d)  
Exhibits
99 - News Release dated October 6, 2010
-3-
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
-4-
Exhibit Index
-5-

Exhibit 99
Family Dollar Announces $250 Million Accelerated Share Repurchase
MATTHEWS, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 6, 2010--Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE: FDO) announced today it entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. under which the Company will repurchase shares of its common stock. The Company is repurchasing shares under the agreement as part of its previously announced $750 million share repurchase authorization.
Under the accelerated share repurchase agreement, the Company will pay an aggregate of $250 million to the bank on October 7, 2010, for a number of shares that will be determined based on average prices of the Companys common stock during a specified period. The Company is funding the repurchase with cash on hand.
As the repurchase of common stock is expected to be accretive to earnings per share, the Company is updating its earnings guidance. Earnings per diluted share, including the impact of this $250 million share buyback, are now expected to be in the range of $3.04 to $3.24 per diluted share for fiscal 2011.
The Company's outlook for fiscal 2011 is based on the following assumptions, which may or may not prove valid and does not reflect any additional stock repurchases or any incremental borrowings:
An increase in net sales of between 8% and 10%;
An increase in comparable store sales of between 5% and 7%;
Approximately 300 new store openings and 80-100 store closings;
An increase in the operating margin based on flat gross margin and lower SG&A expenses, all as a percentage of sales;
An effective income tax rate of approximately 36.5%;
Weighted average diluted shares of approximately 127 million; and
Capital expenditures of between $300 million and $350 million.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company expects that comparable store sales will increase between 5% and 7% and that earnings per diluted share will be between $0.56 and $0.61 per share.
Cautionary Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements address certain plans, activities or events which the Company expects will or may occur in the future and relate to, among other things, the state of the economy, the Company's investment and financing plans, net sales, comparable store sales, cost of sales, SG&A expenses, earnings per diluted share, dividends and share repurchases. Various risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made by the Company in this and in other documents or statements are qualified by factors, risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those set forth under the headings titled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission up to the date of this release.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company does not undertake to update or revise these forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that projected results expressed or implied in such statements will not be realized, except as may be required by law.
About Family Dollar
Beginning with one store in 1959 in Charlotte, North Carolina, the Company currently operates more than 6,800 stores in 44 states. Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, is based in Matthews, North Carolina, just outside of Charlotte and is a publicly held company with common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol FDO. For more information, please visit .
www.familydollar.com
CONTACT: Family Dollar Stores, Inc. INVESTOR CONTACT: or MEDIA CONTACT:
Kiley F. Rawlins, CFA, 704-849-7496
krawlins@familydollar.com
Josh Braverman, 704-814-3447
jbraverman@familydollar.com


