FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20110311162534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On March 11, 2011, Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company") announced that C. Martin Sowers, Senior Vice President  Finance, left the Company on March 9, 2011, to pursue other interests. Mr. Sowers served as the Company's principal accounting officer. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
(c) Kenneth T. Smith, the Company's Senior Vice President  Chief Financial Officer, will now also serve as the Company's principal accounting officer, effective March 9, 2011. The terms of Mr. Smith's employment arrangement have not changed. For additional information about Mr. Smith, see the section entitled "Executive Officers" in Item 1 of Part I of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 26, 2010, which section is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
99  News Release dated March 11, 2011
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
For Immediate Release
- Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (NYSE: FDO) today announced that it has named Steven E. Burt, Vice President  Treasurer and David R. Styka, Vice President  Finance. Both Mr. Styka and Mr. Burt will report to Ken Smith, Senior Vice President  Chief Financial Officer.
MATTHEWS, NC, MARCH 11, 2011
"Developing strong leaders and recognizing their accomplishments are essential to our mission of being a compelling place to shop, work and invest," said Mr. Smith. "Both Steve and Dave have made significant contributions to our finance organization, and their promotions reflect our continued commitment to the needs of the business and our ongoing initiatives."
"In addition to these organizational changes Marty Sowers, Senior Vice President  Finance, has left the company to pursue other interests. We thank Marty for his many contributions and wish him the best in his future endeavors."
Mr. Burt began his career with Family Dollar as Divisional Vice President  Treasury in 2006. Prior to joining Family Dollar, Mr. Burt held various positions with Duke Energy. Mr. Burt is a graduate of the United States Naval Academy with a degree in Mechanical Engineering. He also received a MBA from the Kenan-Flagler Business School at UNC Chapel Hill.
Mr. Styka joined Family Dollar in 2008 as Divisional Vice President  Tax. Prior to joining Family Dollar, he spent 15 years at Wellman, Inc. Mr. Styka earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from John Carroll University and a MBA from Wake Forest University.
About Family Dollar
Beginning with one store in Charlotte, North Carolina, in 1959, the Company currently operates more than 6,800 stores in 44 states. Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, is based in Matthews, North Carolina, just outside of Charlotte and is a publicly held company with common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol FDO. For more information, please visit .
www.familydollar.com


