FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20110303075028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in Item 3.03 below regarding the Rights Agreement (as defined below) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
On March 2, 2011, pursuant to a stockholder rights plan dated as of March 2, 2011 (the "") between Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "") and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, a New York limited liability trust company, as Rights Agent, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized and declared a dividend distribution of one right (individually, a "" and, collectively, the "") for each outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company (the "") to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 2, 2011 (the ""). Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company a unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a share (a "") of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the ""), at a price of $250.00 per Unit, subject to adjustment (the "").
Rights Agreement
Company
Right
Rights
Common Stock
Record Date
Unit
Series A Preferred Stock
Purchase Price
The Rights are designed to assure that all of the Company's shareholders receive fair and equal treatment in connection with any initiative to acquire control of the Company; to guard the interest of stockholders against partial or two-tiered tender offers, inadequate offers, open market accumulations and other abusive or coercive takeover tactics; and to protect the ability of the Company to implement its strategic plan in view of threats thereto, including inadequate proposals and other efforts to cause a change of control of the Company and impede the implementation of such plan, which the Company's Board of Directors (the "") has determined, after a review conducted with the support of its financial and legal advisors, is in the best interests of the Company. The Rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that becomes an Acquiring Person (as defined below) on terms not approved by the Board. The Rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by the Board at any time prior to the first date that a person or group has become an Acquiring Person. The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in the Rights Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this current report.
Board
Initially, the Rights will be attached to all shares of Common Stock then outstanding, and no separate certificates evidencing Rights (each, a "") will be distributed. Subject to certain exceptions specified in the Rights Agreement, the Rights will separate from the Common Stock upon the earlier of (i) 10 business days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons (an "") has acquired beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (the ""), other than as a result of repurchases of stock by the Company and other than certain acquisitions by certain Exempt Persons (as defined below) or (ii) 10 business days (or such later date as the Board shall determine) following the commencement of a tender offer or exchange offer that would result in a person or group becoming an Acquiring Person (the earlier of (i) and (ii) being herein referred to as the ""). An "" means each person that beneficially owns on the Record Date a number of shares of Common Stock representing more than 10% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, except that each such person will be considered an Exempt Person only if and so long as the shares of Common Stock that are beneficially owned by such person do not exceed the number of shares which are beneficially owned by such person on the Record Date, plus any additional shares of Common Stock representing not more than 1% of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding, and except that a person will cease to be an Exempt Person immediately at such time as such person ceases to be the beneficial owner of more than 10% of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding.
Rights Certificate
Acquiring Person
Stock Acquisition Date
Distribution Date
Exempt Person
 
Until the Distribution Date, (i) the Rights will be evidenced by the balances in the book-entry account system of the transfer agent for the Common Stock registered in the names of the holders of the Common Stock, (ii) any confirmation or written notices sent to holders of Common Stock in book-entry form and any new Common Stock certificates issued after the Record Date will contain a notation incorporating the Rights Agreement by reference, and (iii) the transfer of Common Stock outstanding will also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with such shares of Common Stock. Pursuant to the Rights Agreement, the Company reserves the right to require prior to the occurrence of a Triggering Event (as defined below) that, upon any exercise of Rights, a number of Rights be exercised so that only whole shares of Preferred Stock will be issued.
The Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date and will expire at 5:00 P.M. (New York City time) on March 2, 2012 (the ""), unless the Rights Agreement is earlier terminated or such date is extended or the Rights are earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company as described below.
Final Expiration Date
As soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, Rights Certificates will be mailed to holders of record of the Common Stock as of the close of business on the Distribution Date and, thereafter, the separate Rights Certificates alone will represent the Rights.
In the event that a person becomes an Acquiring Person, each holder of a Right will thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise, Common Stock (or, in certain circumstances, cash, property or other securities of the Company) having a value (as determined pursuant to the Rights Agreement) equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, following the occurrence of the event described in this paragraph, all Rights that are, or (under certain circumstances specified in the Rights Agreement) were, beneficially owned by any Acquiring Person will be null and void.
In the event that a person becomes an Acquiring Person and (i) the Company engages in a merger or other business combination transaction in which the Company is not the surviving corporation, (ii) the Company engages in a merger or other business combination transaction in which the Company is the surviving corporation and the Common Stock of the Company is changed or exchanged, or (iii) 50% or more of the Company's assets, cash flow or earning power is sold or transferred, each holder of a Right (except Rights which have previously been voided as set forth above) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. The events set forth in this paragraph and in the preceding paragraph are referred to as the "."
Triggering Events
At any time after a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person and prior to the acquisition by such person or group of 50% or more of the outstanding Common Stock, the Board may exchange the Rights (other than Rights owned by such person or group which have become null and void), in whole or in part, for Common Stock at an exchange ratio of one share of Common Stock per Right (subject to adjustment). If an insufficient number of shares of Common Stock are available for such exchange despite the Company's good faith efforts to authorize additional shares of Common Stock, the Company will substitute a number of shares of Preferred Stock or a fraction thereof for each share of Common Stock that would otherwise be issuable.
The Purchase Price payable, and the number of Units of Preferred Stock or other securities or property issuable, upon exercise of the Rights are subject to adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution (i) in the event of a stock dividend on, or a subdivision, combination or reclassification of, the Preferred Stock, (ii) if holders of the Preferred Stock are granted certain rights or warrants to subscribe for Preferred Stock or convertible securities at less than the current market price of the Preferred Stock, or
 
(iii) upon the distribution to holders of the Preferred Stock of evidences of indebtedness or assets (excluding regular quarterly cash dividends) or of subscription rights or warrants (other than those referred to above).
With certain exceptions, no adjustment in the Purchase Price will be required until cumulative adjustments amount to at least 1% of the Purchase Price. No fractional Units will be issued and, in lieu thereof, an adjustment in cash will be made based on the market price of the Preferred Stock on the last trading date prior to the date of exercise.
At any time prior to the Stock Acquisition Date, the Company may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.001 per Right (payable in cash, Common Stock or other consideration deemed appropriate by the Board) or amend the Rights Agreement to change the Final Expiration Date to another date, including, without limitation, an earlier date. Immediately upon the action of the Board ordering redemption of the Rights, the Rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive the $0.001 redemption price.
Until a Right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no separate rights as a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends in respect of the Rights. While the distribution of the Rights will not be taxable to stockholders or to the Company, stockholders may, depending upon the circumstances, recognize taxable income in the event that the Rights become exercisable for Common Stock (or other consideration) of the Company or for common stock of the acquiring company or in the event of the redemption of the Rights as set forth above.
Any of the provisions of the Rights Agreement may be amended by the Board of the Company prior to the Stock Acquisition Date. After the Stock Acquisition Date, the provisions of the Rights Agreement may be amended by the Board only in order to cure any ambiguity, to correct any defect or inconsistency or to make changes that do not adversely affect the interests of holders of Rights.
The Rights Agreement specifying the terms of the Rights is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to this current report. The foregoing description of the Rights is qualified in its entirety by reference to such exhibit.
 
On March 2, 2011, the Board adopted and approved amendments to the Bylaws of the Company (the ""), effective immediately. The Amended Bylaws establish new requirements and procedures applicable to stockholders wishing to bring actions by written consent in lieu of a meeting. Article VIII Section 4 was amended in order to make the disclosure requirements that are applicable to stockholders' proposing actions and nominations to be considered in connection with an action by written consent consistent with the disclosure requirements that are applicable to stockholders' making proposals and nominations to be considered at annual and special meetings of the Company's stockholders and for the orderly setting of a record date for any such action by written consent. The advance notice provisions are contained in new Article VIII Section 4(b) and new Article VIII Section 4(c) of the Bylaws and:
Amended Bylaws
 
 
The Amended Bylaws are effective immediately.
 
On March 3, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors had determined that continued implementation of the Company's strategic plan remains the best way to deliver value to all of the Company's shareholders, that the unsolicited, conditional proposal from Trian Group to acquire the Company substantially undervalues the Company and that pursuit of a sale of the Company is not in the best interest of shareholders. This press release is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
SECTION 1. . The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be as set forth in the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation or as subsequently changed in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law.
DELAWARE OFFICE
SECTION 2. . The Corporation may have an office or offices at such other places in the United States or elsewhere as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.
OTHER OFFICES
SECTION 1. . An annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before said meeting shall be held on the third Thursday in January of each year, if not a legal holiday and if a legal holiday, then on the next succeeding full business day, or on such other date as the Board of Directors may designate, at such hour and at such place, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of said meeting.
ANNUAL MEETING
SECTION 2. . Special meetings of stockholders for any purpose or purposes may, except as otherwise prescribed by law or in the Certificate of Incorporation, be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board or by resolution of the Board of Directors, to be held at such time and place, within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated in the notice thereof.
SPECIAL MEETINGS
SECTION 3. . Except as otherwise provided or permitted by law or in the Certificate of Incorporation or in these Bylaws, written notice of all meetings of stockholders, stating the place, date and hour and in general terms only, the purpose or purposes thereof, shall be given to each stockholder of record having voting power in respect of the business to be transacted thereat, either by serving such notice upon him or her personally or by mailing the same to his or her address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
NOTICE OF MEETING
SECTION 4. . The holders of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall be required to and shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws. When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock having voting power present in person or by proxy shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of law or of the Certificate of Incorporation or of these Bylaws a larger or different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question. The stockholders present or represented at any duly called and held meeting at which a quorum is present or represented may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of such number as to leave less than a quorum.
QUORUM
SECTION 5. . At any meeting of stockholders, including a meeting at which a quorum is not present or represented, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting of the
ADJOURNMENTS
time and place of the adjourned meeting. At such adjourned meeting any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If any adjournment, whether a quorum is present or not, is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
SECTION 6. . Each meeting of stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, or in his or her absence, by the Chief Executive Officer or Vice Chairman or the President or a Vice President or any other person thereunto designated by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors (such officer or other person so presiding being referred to in these Bylaws as the "Chairman of the Meeting"). The Board of Directors may adopt such rules or regulations for the conduct of meetings of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of the Chairman of the Meeting, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the Chairman of the Meeting, may but need not be consistent with rules of parliamentary procedure and may include, without limitation, the following: (1) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (2) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (3) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting, to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chair shall permit; (4) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof, and (5) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. The Secretary, or in his or her absence an Assistant Secretary, or in the absence of both the Secretary and an Assistant Secretary any person designated by the Chairman of the Board or other person presiding at the meeting, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
ORGANIZATION
SECTION 7. . At any meeting of stockholders, each stockholder entitled to vote any shares on any matter to be voted upon at such meeting may exercise such voting right either in person or by proxy appointed by an instrument in writing, which shall be filed with the Secretary of the meeting before being voted. Such proxies shall entitle the holders thereof to vote at any adjournment of such meeting, but shall not be valid after the final adjournment thereof. No proxy shall be voted on after three years from its date unless said proxy provides for a longer period. Except as otherwise expressly required by statute, the vote on any question need not be by written ballot.
PROXIES AND VOTING OF SHARES
SECTION 8. . The officer who shall have charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at said meeting, arranged in alphabetical order and showing the address and the number of shares registered in the name of each such stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where said meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger or the list of stockholders referred to above or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at the meeting of stockholders.
VOTING LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS
SECTION 9. . At any meeting of the stockholders, only business that has been properly brought before the meeting may be conducted. To be properly brought before the meeting, nominations for the election of directors and the proposal of other business at any meeting may be made only: (a) in the case of proposals other than nominations for the election of directors, as set forth in the Corporation's notice of meeting or otherwise made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors; or (b) in the case of nominations for the election of directors, by or at the direction of the Board of Directors; or (c) in either such case, by a stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting who complies with the following paragraphs of this Section 9. Compliance with the following paragraphs of this Section 9 pursuant to clause (c) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and included in the Corporation's notice of meeting) before a meeting of stockholders.
NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS AND NOMINATIONS
 
For business or nominations to be properly brought before a stockholder meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) above, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. A notice of the intent of a stockholder to make a nomination or to bring any other matter before the annual meeting shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty days before or more than seventy days after its anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the forty-fifth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In the event of a special meeting at which directors are to be elected, any stockholder entitled to vote may nominate a person or persons for election as director if the stockholder's notice is received by the Secretary of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the fifteenth day following the day on which notice of the meeting is first provided to stockholders. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of any meeting of stockholders or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Any notice by a stockholder shall set forth:
(a) the name and address of the stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person (hereinafter defined) of such stockholder;
(b) a representation that the stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person; intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to make the nomination or bring up the matter specified in the notice;
(c) as to each of the stockholder and all Stockholder Associated Persons, if any, of such stockholder (i) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation which are directly or indirectly owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person; (ii) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, and any other direct or indirect opportunity of such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of the shares of the Corporation; (iii) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Corporation; (iv) any short interest of such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person in any security of the Corporation (for purposes of these Bylaws, a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security); (v) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner; and (vi) any performance-related fees that such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person is entitled to receive, either directly or indirectly, based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments; in each case, if any, such information shall be as of the date of such notice, (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder as to itself and any Stockholder Associated Person not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date);
(d) with respect to notice of an intent to make a nomination, a description of all arrangements or understandings between or among any of the stockholder, any Stockholder Associated Person, each nominee, and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder;
(e) with respect to notice of an intent to make a nomination, (i) all information regarding each nominee that would be required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election
 
contest pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director, if elected); (ii) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and undertakings during the past three years, and other material relationships, between such stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person, if any, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert with such nominee on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person were the "registrant" pursuant to Regulation S-K and if the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; and (iii) a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement to furnish such information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation, or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, or such nominee.
(f) with respect to notice of an intent to bring up any matter other than a nomination of a director, a description of the matter, and any interest of the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person, if any, in the matter, including a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between or among any of the stockholder, any Stockholder Associated Person, if any, and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) in connection with the proposal of such business.
"Stockholder Associated Person" shall mean, with respect to a stockholder, (A) any person controlling, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such stockholder, (B) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by such stockholder, including interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household, and (C) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Stockholder Associated Person.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 9, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 9. Nothing in this Section 9 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 9 shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 9. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the Chairman of the Meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article II and, if in accordance with the Chairman of the Meeting's determination any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
SECTION 1. . The Board of Directors shall have the general management of the affairs, property and business of the Corporation and may adopt such rules and regulations for that purpose and for the conduct of their meetings as they may deem proper. The Board of Directors may exercise and shall be vested with the powers of the Corporation insofar as not inconsistent with law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SECTION 2. . The authorized number of directors shall be determined by the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of directors given at a regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors; provided, that, if the number so determined is to be increased or decreased, notice of the proposed increase or decrease shall be included in the notice of such meeting unless all of the directors at the time in office be present at such meeting or those not present shall at any time waive or have waived notice thereof in writing; and provided further, that the number of directors which shall constitute the total number of directors shall not be reduced to a number less than the number of directors then in office unless such reduction shall become effective only at and after the next ensuing meeting of stockholders for the election of directors or upon the resignation of an incumbent director. Directors need not be stockholders of the Corporation.
NUMBER AND QUALIFICATIONS
 
SECTION 3. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by these Bylaws, the directors of the Corporation shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders in each year. Each director shall be elected to serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until a successor shall have been duly elected and shall qualify, subject to the provisions of Article V hereof.
ELECTION AND TERM
SECTION 4. . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such time and place, either within or outside of the State of Delaware, as may be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. No notice of a regular meeting need be given (any practice or custom at any time to the contrary notwithstanding) and any business may be transacted at a regular meeting, held as aforesaid, subject only to the requirements of Section 2 of Article III.
REGULAR MEETINGS
SECTION 5. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may, unless otherwise expressly provided by law, be called from time to time by the Chairman of the Board, the Lead Director, the Chief Executive Officer or the Vice Chairman, or by a written call signed by any two or more directors and filed with the Secretary. Each special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place, either within or outside of the State of Delaware, as shall be designated in the notice of such meeting.
SPECIAL MEETINGS
SECTION 6. . Notice of a special meeting of the Board of Directors, stating the place, date and hour thereof, shall, except as otherwise expressly provided by law or as provided in Section 2 of Article VII hereof, be given by mailing, telecopying or by sending by electronic transmission the same to each director at his or her residence or business address at any time on or before the second day before the day of the meeting or by delivering the same to him or her personally or telephoning the same to him or her personally at his or her residence or business address not later than the day before the day of the meeting, unless, in case of exigency, the Chairman of the Board, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Lead Director, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the President, a Vice President or the Secretary, shall prescribe a shorter notice to each director at his or her residence or business address. Except as otherwise required by statute or the Bylaws, no notice or waiver of notice of a special meeting of the Board of Directors need state the purpose or purposes of such meeting, and any business may be transacted thereat, any practice or custom at any time to the contrary notwithstanding.
NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETINGS
SECTION 7. . A majority of the directors at the time in office, but in no event less than one-third of the total number of directors, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors. If less than a quorum be present at a meeting, the directors present may adjourn the meeting and the meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice. If a quorum be present at a meeting and the meeting is adjourned to reconvene at a later time and/or date, no notice need be given other than announcement at the meeting. Except as otherwise provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws, when a quorum is present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, a majority of the directors present at such meeting shall decide any question brought before such meeting and the action of such majority shall be deemed to be the action of the Board of Directors. The directors present at any duly called and held meeting at which a quorum is present or represented may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of such number as to leave less than a quorum.
QUORUM
SECTION 8. . The Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members a director who shall be designated as the Chairman of the Board and who may, as provided in Article IV, Section 4 hereof, also be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. If the Chairman of the Board is not the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, the Chairman of the Board shall not be an officer of the Corporation, unless otherwise designated as such by the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors.
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND LEAD DIRECTOR
If the Chief Executive Officer is serving as the Chairman of the Board, the Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members a director who shall be designated as the Lead Director. The Lead Director shall consult with and act as a liaison between the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer and perform such other
 
duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. The Lead Director, if any, shall, when present, preside over meetings of the Board of Directors in the absence of the Chairman of the Board. Meetings of the non-management and/or independent members of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Lead Director, of if there is none, by the Chairman of the Board, if he or she is independent, or if he or she is not independent, by a director selected to so preside at such meeting(s).
SECTION 9. . Each meeting of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, or, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Lead Director, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Lead Director, by any director selected to preside by vote of a majority of the directors present. The Secretary, or in his or her absence an Assistant Secretary, or in the absence of both the Secretary and an Assistant Secretary, or at the request of the chairman of the meeting (with the consent of the Secretary, if present), any person designated by the chairman of the meeting shall act as secretary of the meeting.
ORGANIZATION
SECTION 10. . The directors may be paid their expenses of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary as director. The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of the directors. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like reimbursement and additional compensation for attending committee meetings. Members of the Board of Directors may also participate in stock option, stock bonus and other equity compensation plans and programs established by the Corporation to the extent they are by the terms thereof eligible to so participate.
COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
SECTION 11. . The Board of Directors may, by resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation, which, to the extent provided in said resolution or resolutions, shall have and may exercise the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may have the power to authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it, but no such committee shall have any power or authority not permitted by statute. Such committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. The committees shall keep regular minutes of their proceedings and report the same to the Board of Directors when required.
COMMITTEES
SECTION 12. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
WRITTEN CONSENTS
SECTION 13. . Members of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting in such manner shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
TELEPHONIC PARTICIPATION
SECTION 1. . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a Vice Chairman, a President, a Chief Financial Officer, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors may also appoint one or more Vice Presidents, a Comptroller and one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Comptrollers, Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers. Any number of offices may be held by the same person but no officer shall act in more than one capacity where action of two or more officers is required.
NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT
SECTION 2. . The Board of Directors shall appoint the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Vice Chairman, President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary or Treasurer, and may appoint such other officers as it may designate or may authorize a duly appointed officer to
APPOINTMENT, TERM AND QUALIFICATION
 
appoint one or more other officers or assistant officers, other than those set forth above. Each such officer shall serve as such at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. None of the officers of the Corporation, other than that the Chairman of the Board, need be directors.
SECTION 3. . The Board of Directors may also appoint such other officers and agents, or provide for the appointment of such other officers and agents, as it may deem necessary for the transaction of the business of the Corporation. Such officers and agents shall hold office for such period, have such authority and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
OTHER OFFICERS
SECTION 4. . The Chairman of the Board shall be appointed by the Board of Directors from among its members as set forth in Article III, Section 8 hereof. If the Chief Executive Officer is appointed as the Chairman of the Board, he or she shall hold such position as an officer of the Corporation. In addition to the duties set forth in Articles II and III hereof, the Chairman of the Board shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
SECTION 5. . The Chief Executive Officer shall have the general control and management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, under the direction of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have power: (1) to select and appoint all necessary officers and employees of the Corporation except such officers as under these Bylaws are to be appointed exclusively by the Board of Directors; (2) to remove all officers or employees selected or appointed by him or her whenever he or she shall deem it necessary, and to make new appointments to fill the vacancies; and (3) to suspend from office for cause any officer appointed by the Board of Directors, which shall be forthwith declared in writing to the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
SECTION 6. . The Vice Chairman shall be the chief administrative officer of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time prescribe.
VICE CHAIRMAN
SECTION 7. . The President shall perform such duties and have such powers relative to the business and affairs of the Corporation as the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time prescribe. If the Board of Directors shall not have elected a Chief Executive Officer, the President shall have such authority and shall perform such additional duties as in these Bylaws is provided for the office of Chief Executive Officer.
PRESIDENT
SECTION 8. . The Chief Financial Officer shall be responsible for the general oversight and management of the financial affairs of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time prescribe.
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
SECTION 9. . Each Vice President shall perform such duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the President or as may be prescribed by the Bylaws. A Vice President may be designated as the chief accounting officer of the Corporation who shall have general supervision over the Corporation's accounting division and the Treasurer's department, subject to the control of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer and the Vice Chairman.
VICE PRESIDENTS
SECTION 10. . The Secretary shall record or cause to be recorded in books provided for the purpose all the proceedings of the meetings of the Corporation including those of the stockholders, the Board of Directors and all committees thereof; shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by law; shall be custodian of the records (other than financial) and of the seal of the Corporation and see that the seal is affixed to all documents the execution of which on behalf of the Corporation under its seal is duly authorized in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws; shall see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and all other documents and records required by law are properly kept and filed; and in general, the Secretary shall perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman or the President.
SECRETARY
 
SECTION 11. . In the absence of the Secretary, or in case of his or her inability to act, an Assistant Secretary designated by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the President or the Board of Directors shall perform all duties of the Secretary and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of the Secretary. The Assistant Secretaries shall perform such other duties as from time to time shall be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the President or the Secretary.
ASSISTANT SECRETARIES
SECTION 12. . The Treasurer shall have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds and securities of the Corporation, and deposit all such funds in the name of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws; receive, and give receipts for, monies due and payable to the Corporation from any source whatsoever; and in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, or the Chief Financial Officer.
TREASURER
SECTION 13. . In the absence of the Treasurer, or in case of his or her inability to act, an Assistant Treasurer designated by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer or the Board of Directors shall perform all the duties of the Treasurer and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of the Treasurer. The Assistant Treasurers shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, or the Treasurer.
ASSISTANT TREASURERS
SECTION 14. . The compensation of all officers, agents and employees of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by or in the manner prescribed by the Board of Directors. No officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary by reason of the fact that he or she is also a director of the Corporation or a member of any committee.
COMPENSATION
SECTION 1. . Any director, officer or agent of the Corporation may, subject to contrary provision in any applicable contract, resign at any time by giving written notice to any of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the President or the Secretary of the Corporation, and any member of any committee may resign at any time by giving notice either as aforesaid or to the committee of which he or she is a member or to the chairman thereof. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if the time is not specified, upon receipt thereof; and unless otherwise specified herein, acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
RESIGNATIONS
SECTION 2. . The stockholders at any meeting called for the purpose, by vote of the majority of the outstanding stock entitled to vote, may remove from office either for or without cause any director and elect his or her successor. The Board of Directors may remove from office any officer, agent or member of any committee, elected or appointed by it.
REMOVALS
SECTION 1. . If the office of any director becomes vacant at any time by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, or if any new directorship is created by any increase in the authorized number of directors, a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or the sole remaining director, may choose a successor or fill the newly created directorship, and the director so chosen shall hold office, subject to the provisions of these Bylaws, until the next
AMONG DIRECTORS
 
annual election of directors and until his or her successor shall be duly elected and shall qualify. In the event that a vacancy arising as aforesaid shall not have been filled by the Board of Directors, such vacancy may be filled by the stockholders at any meeting thereof after such office becomes vacant. If one or more directors shall resign from the Board of Directors, effective at a future date, a majority of the directors then in office, including those who have so prospectively resigned, shall have the power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective, and each director so chosen shall hold office as herein provided in the filling of other vacancies.
SECTION 2. . If the office of the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Vice Chairman, President, any Vice President, the Secretary or the Treasurer, or of any other officer or agent or member of any committee, becomes vacant at any time by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office, or otherwise, such vacancy or vacancies shall be filled by the Board of Directors or as authorized by it.
AMONG OFFICERS, ETC
SECTION 1. . Whenever under the provisions of the laws of the State of Delaware, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, notice is required to be given to any director or stockholder, it shall not be construed to mean personal notice, but such notice may be given by mailing, telecopying or sending by electronic transmission the same to each such director or stockholder at such address as appears on the books or in the records of the Corporation, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same is thus mailed, telecopied or sent by electronic transmission.
MANNER OF GIVING
SECTION 2. . Whenever under the provisions of these Bylaws, or of the Certificate of Incorporation, or of any of the laws of the State of Delaware, the stockholders or directors are authorized to hold any meeting or take any action after notice or after the lapse of any prescribed period of time, a waiver thereof, in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice or lapse of time, whether before or after the time of meeting or action stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. The presence at any meeting of a person or persons entitled to notice thereof shall be deemed a waiver of such notice as to such person or persons.
WAIVER OF NOTICE
SECTION 1. . Shares of the Corporation's stock may be certificated or uncertificated and shall be entered in the books of the Corporation and registered as they are issued. Certificates of stock shall be issued in such form as may be approved by the Board of Directors and shall be signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer, or the Vice Chairman, or the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation; provided, however, that if such certificate is countersigned (1) by a transfer agent other than the Corporation or its employee, or, (2) by a registrar other than the Corporation or its employee, the signatures of the officers of the Corporation may be facsimiles. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer at the date of issue.
FORM AND ISSUANCE
SECTION 2. . The Board of Directors shall have power and authority to make such rules and regulations or amendments thereto as they may deem expedient concerning the issue, registration and transfer of certificated or uncertificated stock and may appoint transfer agents and registrars thereof.
TRANSFERS OF STOCK
SECTION 3. . The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate or certificates, or uncertificated shares in place of any certificate or certificates, to be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon satisfactory proof of that fact by the person claiming the certificate or certificates for shares to be
LOST, STOLEN AND DESTROYED CERTIFICATES
 
lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates or any uncertificated shares, the Board of Directors may, at its discretion, and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his or her legal representative, to give the Corporation and its agents a bond in such sum as the Board of Directors may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation or any of its agents with respect to the certificate or certificates alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
SECTION 4. .
FIXING OF RECORD DATE
(a) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action. Only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or to receive payment of such dividend or other distribution, or to receive such allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of stock, or to participate in such other action, or to give such consent, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after any such record date fixed as aforesaid. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
(b) The record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be as fixed by the Board of Directors or as otherwise established under this Section 4(b) of Article VIII. Any person seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent without a meeting shall, by written notice addressed to the Secretary of the Corporation and delivered to the Corporation and signed by a stockholder of record, request that a record date be fixed for such purpose. The written notice must contain the information set forth in Section 4(c) of Article VIII. Following receipt of the notice, the Board of Directors shall have ten (10) days to determine the validity of the request, and if appropriate, adopt a resolution fixing the record date for such purpose. The record date for such purpose shall be no more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors and shall not precede the date such resolution is adopted. If the Board of Directors fails within ten (10) days after the Corporation receives such notice to fix a record date for such purpose, the record date shall be the day on which the first written consent is delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed by applicable Delaware law; except that, if prior action by the Board of Directors is required under the provisions of Delaware law, the record date shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
(c) Any stockholder's notice required by Section 4(b) of Article VIII shall be valid and effective only if delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation and only if it sets forth (A) as to any action (including the nomination of any person for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, in which case the questionnaire, representation, agreement and other information required by Section 9(e) of Article II of these By-Laws must also be delivered along with and at the same time as such stockholder's notice) that the stockholder proposes to take by consent, a brief description of such action, the reasons for taking such action, any material interest in such action of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal to take such action is made and, if such action includes a proposal to amend either the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the text of the proposed amendment; and (B) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal to take such action (including the nomination of any person for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation) is made, the information set forth in Section 9(a) through Section 9(f), but excluding Section 9(b), of Article II. The Corporation may require the stockholder requesting a record date for proposed stockholder action by consent to furnish additional information to the extent it may reasonably be required to determine the validity of the request for a record date.
 
SECTION 1.  All checks, drafts, bills of exchange, notes or other instruments or orders for the payment of money or evidences of indebtedness shall be signed for or in the name of the Corporation by such officer or officers, person or persons, as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors or by such officers of the Corporation as may be designated by the Board of Directors.
SIGNATURES ON CHECKS, ETC.
SECTION 2.  The Board of Directors may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, to enter into or execute and deliver any and all deeds, bonds, mortgages, contracts and other obligations or instruments, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS, DEEDS, ETC.
The seal of the Corporation shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal - Delaware". Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced in any manner whatsoever.
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the President or a Vice President, or any officer designated by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or the Vice Chairman, are authorized to vote, represent and exercise on behalf of the Corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of stock or other ownership interests of the Corporation in any corporations, associations, limited liability companies, partnerships, or other entities standing in the name of the Corporation. The authority herein granted to the individuals to vote or represent on behalf of the Corporation any and all ownership interests held by the Corporation may be exercised either by the individuals in person or by any duly executed proxy or power of attorney.
SECTION 1. . The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person who was or is made or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any pending, threatened or completed action, suit arbitration, alternative dispute resolution proceeding, investigation, administrative hearing, or other proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "proceeding") by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person for whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, nonprofit entity, or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) reasonably incurred by such person. The Corporation shall be required to indemnify a person and/or advance expenses under Section 2 below in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person against the Corporation only if the proceeding (or part
INDEMNIFICATION
 
thereof), other than a proceeding in accordance with Section 3 below, was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation; that in no event shall the Corporation indemnify any officer, or advance expenses to any officer in accordance with Section 2 below, in connection with a proceeding involving the enforcement of the provisions of any employment, severance or compensation plan or agreement that such officer may be a party to, or beneficiary of, with the Corporation or any of the Corporation's subsidiaries.
provided, however
SECTION 2. . Subject to the last sentence of Section 1 above, the Corporation shall pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by any present or former officer or director of the Corporation in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, provided, however, that such advancement of expenses shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the officer or director to repay all amounts advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified.
ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES
SECTION 3. . If a claim for indemnification or payment of expenses (including attorneys' fees) under this Article is not paid in full within sixty days after a written claim therefor has been received by the Corporation the claimant may file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim and, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim. In any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the claimant was not entitled to the requested indemnification or payment of expenses under applicable law.
CLAIMS
SECTION 4. . The Board of Directors of the Corporation may, in its discretion, authorize the Corporation to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him or her or incurred by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability under the provisions of Section 1 of Article XIII hereof.
INSURANCE
SECTION 5. . The right conferred on any person by this Article XIII shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
NONEXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS
SECTION 6. . The right to indemnification or advancement under this Article XIII is an irrevocable contract right based upon good and valuable consideration. The right to indemnification and advancement shall fully vest at the time any officer or director of the Company first assumes his or her position with the Company. Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions granting indemnification or advancement rights shall be prospective only and shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director or officer of the Corporation with respect to any acts or omissions of such director or officer occurring prior to such repeal or modification.
SAVINGS CLAUSE
All Bylaws of the Corporation shall be subject to alteration or repeal, and new Bylaws may be made, either
(a) by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote, given at an annual meeting or at any special meeting of such stockholders, or
(b) by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, or
(c) without any such meeting of the Board of Directors, by written consent signed by all members of the Board of Directors in accordance with Section 12 of Article III of these Bylaws.
 
The provisions of NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES, Chapter 55, Sections 55-75 through 55-79, as amended, shall not be applicable to the Corporation.
To the extent otherwise deemed applicable, if any, the provisions of Article 7A of Chapter 55 of the NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES entitled The North Carolina Control Share Acquisition Act shall not be applicable to the Corporation.
SECTION 1. .
APPLICABILITY
Notwithstanding any other provision in the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the emergency bylaws set forth in this Article XVII (the "Emergency Bylaws") shall be operative during any emergency resulting from an attack on the United States, any nuclear or atomic incident, any natural catastrophe or other event which creates a state of disaster of sufficient severity to prevent the normal conduct and management of the affairs and business of the Corporation (an "Emergency"). The Emergency Bylaws shall remain in effect for the duration of such Emergency and shall terminate upon the termination of such Emergency.
SECTION 2. .
NOTICE OF MEETING
During any Emergency, any meeting of the Board of Directors may be called without notice by any director by any means feasible under the circumstances. The number of directors necessary to constitute a quorum in an Emergency shall be one-third of the directors at the time in office.
SECTION 3. .
LIABILITY
No officer, director, or employee acting in accordance with these Emergency Bylaws shall be liable except for willful misconduct.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
RIGHTS AGREEMENT, dated as of March 2, 2011 (the ""), between Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC a New York limited liability trust company, as Rights Agent (the "").
Agreement
Company
Rights Agent
WHEREAS, on March 2, 2011 (the ""), the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") authorized and declared a dividend distribution of one right (a "") for each share of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company (the "") outstanding (it being understood that shares held by direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiaries of the Company shall not be considered as outstanding) at the Close of Business on March 2, 2011 (the ""), and has authorized the issuance of one Right (as such number may hereinafter be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of Section 11(p) hereof) for each share of Common Stock issued between the Record Date (whether originally issued or delivered from the Company's treasury) and the Distribution Date (as hereinafter defined), each Right initially representing the right to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company (the "") having the rights, powers and preferences set forth in the form of Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights attached hereto as , upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
Rights Dividend Declaration Date
Board
Right
Common Stock
Record Date
Preferred Stock
Exhibit A
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the mutual agreements herein set forth, the parties hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. Certain Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings indicated:
(a) "" shall mean any Person who or which, together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, shall be the Beneficial Owner of 10% or more of the Common Stock then outstanding, but shall not include:
Acquiring Person
(i) the Company;
(ii) any Subsidiary of the Company;
(iii) any employee benefit plan of the Company, or of any Subsidiary of the Company, or any Person or entity organized, appointed or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan;
(iv) any Exempt Person;
(v) any Person who becomes the Beneficial Owner of 10% or more of the Common Stock then outstanding as a result of a reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding due to the repurchase of shares of Common Stock by the Company unless and until such Person, after becoming aware that such Person has become the Beneficial
Owner of 10% or more of the then outstanding Common Stock, acquires beneficial ownership of additional shares of Common Stock representing 1% or more of the Common Stock then outstanding; or
(vi) any Exempt Person who ceases to be an Exempt Person as a result of a reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding due to the repurchase of shares of Common Stock by the Company unless and until such Exempt Person, after becoming aware that it has ceased to be an Exempt Person as a result of such reduction, acquires beneficial ownership of such number of additional shares of Common Stock which represents 1% or more of the Common Stock outstanding at the time of acquisition of any such additional shares pursuant to this clause (vi);
, , that if the Board of Directors of the Company determines in good faith that a Person who would otherwise be an "Acquiring Person" as defined pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this subsection (a) has become such inadvertently, and such Person promptly (and in any event within 5 Business Days after being so requested by the Company) divests or enters into an irrevocable commitment satisfactory to the Board promptly (and in any event within 5 Business Days or such shorter period as shall be determined by the Board) to divest, and thereafter divests as required by such commitment, a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock so that such Person would no longer be an "Acquiring Person," as defined pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this subsection (a), then such Person shall not be deemed to be an "Acquiring Person" for any purposes of this Agreement.
provided
however
(b) "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
(c) Subject to subsection (x) of this Section 1, "" and "" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act.
Affiliate
Associate
(d) A Person shall be deemed the "" of, and shall be deemed to "," any securities:
Beneficial Owner
beneficially own
(i) that such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time or upon the satisfaction of one or more conditions (whether or not within the control of such Person)) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, other rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, and including any securities of the Company represented by "when-issued" trading thereof; , , that a Person shall not be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of, or to "beneficially own," (A) securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange, (B) securities issuable upon exercise of Rights at any time prior to the occurrence of a Triggering Event (as hereinafter defined), or (C) securities issuable upon exercise of Rights from and after the occurrence of a Triggering Event which Rights were acquired by such Person or any of such
provided
however
 
Person's Affiliates or Associates prior to the Distribution Date (as hereinafter defined) or pursuant to Section 3(a) or Section 22 hereof (the "") or pursuant to Section 11(i) hereof in connection with an adjustment made with respect to any Original Rights;
Original Rights
(ii) that such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right to vote or dispose of or has "beneficial ownership" of (as determined pursuant to Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act), including pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, whether or not in writing; , , that a Person shall not be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of, or to "beneficially own," any security under this clause (ii) as a result of an agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security if such agreement, arrangement or understanding: (A) arises solely from a revocable proxy given in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable provisions of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, and (B) is not reportable by such Person on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report); or
provided
however
(iii) that are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) with which such Person (or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing), for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except pursuant to a revocable proxy as described in the proviso to clause (ii) of this subsection (e)) or disposing of any voting securities of the Company;
, , that nothing in this subsection (e) shall cause a Person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities to be the "Beneficial Owner" of, or to "beneficially own," any securities acquired through such Person's participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty days after the date of such acquisition, and then only if such securities continue to be owned by such Person at such expiration of forty days.
provided
however
(e) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
Board
(f) "" shall mean an uncertificated book-entry in the account system of the transfer agent for the Company's Common Stock.
Book-Entry
(g) "" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or North Carolina are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
(h) "" shall mean, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights in, or other equivalents (however designated and whether voting and/or nonvoting) of the Company and any rights (other than debt securities convertible into capital stock), warrants or options to acquire such capital stock, whether now outstanding or issued after the date of this Agreement.
Capital Stock
 
(i) "" on any given date shall mean 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on such date; provided, however, that if such date is not a Business Day, it shall mean 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the next succeeding Business Day.
Close of Business
(j) "" shall mean the common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company at the date hereof or any other stock resulting from successive changes or reclassifications of the common stock, except that "Common Stock" when used with reference to any Person other than the Company shall mean the capital stock of such Person with the greatest voting power, or the equity securities or other equity interest having power to control or direct the management, of such Person.
Common Stock
(k) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.
Common Stock Equivalents
(l) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
Company
(m) "" shall have the meaning determined in accordance with Section 11(d)(i) hereof.
Current Market Price
(n) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.
Current Value
(o) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a) hereof.
Distribution Date
(p) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(b) hereof.
Equivalent Preferred Stock
(q) "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
(r) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 24(a) hereof.
Exchange Ratio
(s) "" shall mean each Person that Beneficially Owns on the Rights Dividend Declaration Date a number of shares of Common Stock representing more than 10% of the Common Stock then outstanding; , that each such Person shall be considered an Exempt Person only if and so long as the shares of Common Stock Beneficially Owned by such Person do not exceed the number of shares which are Beneficially Owned by such Person on the Rights Dividend Declaration Date, plus any additional shares of Common Stock representing not more than 1% of the Common Stock then outstanding; , , that such Person shall cease to be an Exempt Person immediately at such time as such Person ceases to be the Beneficial Owner of more than 10% of the Common Stock then outstanding.
Exempt Person
provided
provided
further
(t) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a) hereof.
Expiration Date
(u) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a) hereof.
Final Expiration Date
 
(v) "" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, trust or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) thereof or thereto.
Person
(w) "" shall mean shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Company, and, to the extent that there are not a sufficient number of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock authorized to permit the full exercise of the Rights, any other series of preferred stock of the Company designated for such purpose containing terms substantially similar to the terms of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
Preferred Stock
(x) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13(b) hereof.
Principal Party
(y) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Purchase Price
(z) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
Record Date
(aa) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
Rights
(bb) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
Rights Agent
(cc) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a) hereof.
Rights Certificate
(dd) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
Rights Dividend Declaration Date
(ee) "" shall mean any event described in Section 11(a)(ii) hereof.
Section 11(a)(ii) Event
(ff) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.
Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date
(gg) "" shall mean any event described in clauses (x), (y) or (z) of Section 13(a) hereof.
Section 13 Event
(hh) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.
Spread
(ii) "" shall mean the first date of public announcement (which, for purposes of this definition, shall include a report filed or amended pursuant to Section 13(d) under the Exchange Act) by the Company or an Acquiring Person that an Acquiring Person has become such.
Stock Acquisition Date
(jj) "" shall mean, with reference to any Person, any Person of which an amount of voting securities sufficient to elect at least a majority of the directors of such
Subsidiary
 
Person is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person, or otherwise controlled by such Person.
(kk) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.
Substitution Period
(ll) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) hereof.
Summary of Rights
(mm) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(d)(i) hereof.
Trading Day
(nn) "" shall mean any Section 11(a)(ii) Event or any Section 13 Event.
Triggering Event
Section 2. . The Company hereby appoints the Rights Agent to act as rights agent for the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof, and the Rights Agent hereby accepts such appointment. The Company may from time to time appoint such co-Rights Agents as it may deem necessary or desirable. The Rights Agent shall have no duty to supervise, and in no event shall be liable for, the acts or omissions of any such co-Rights Agent.
Appointment of Rights Agent
Section 3. .
Issuance of Rights Certificates
(a) Until the earlier of (i) the Close of Business on the 10
th
Business Day after the Stock Acquisition Date, and (ii) the Close of Business on the 10
th
Business Day (or such later date as the Board shall determine) after the date that a tender or exchange offer by any Person (other than the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any employee benefit plan of the Company or of any Subsidiary of the Company, or any Person or entity organized, appointed or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan) is first published or sent or given within the meaning of Rule 14d-2(a) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, if, upon consummation thereof, such Person would become an Acquiring Person (the earlier of (i) and (ii) being herein referred to as the ""), (x) the Rights will be evidenced (subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section 3) by the balances in the Book-Entries registered in the names of the holders of Common Stock (which Book-Entries shall also be deemed to be book-entries for Rights) and not by separate book-entries or Rights Certificates (as defined below), and (y) the Rights will be transferable only in connection with the transfer of the underlying shares of Common Stock (including a transfer to the Company). As soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, the Company will prepare and execute, the Rights Agent will countersign, and the Company will send or cause to be sent (and the Rights Agent will, if requested and provided with all necessary information, send) by first-class, insured, postage-prepaid mail, to each record holder of the Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the Distribution Date, at the address of such holder shown on the records of the Company or the transfer agent or registrar for the shares of Common Stock, one or more Rights certificates, in substantially the form of hereto (the ""), evidencing one Right for each share of Common Stock so held, subject to adjustment as provided herein. In the event that an adjustment in the number of Rights per share of Common Stock has been made pursuant to Section 11(p) hereof, at the time of distribution of the Rights Certificates, the
Distribution Date
Exhibit B
Rights Certificates
 
Company shall make the necessary and appropriate rounding adjustments (in accordance with Section 14(a) hereof) so that Rights Certificates representing only whole numbers of Rights are distributed and cash is paid in lieu of any fractional Rights. As of and after the Distribution Date, the Rights will be evidenced solely by such Rights Certificates, and the Rights will be transferable separately from the transfer of shares of Common Stock. The Company shall promptly notify the Rights Agent in writing upon the occurrence of the Distribution Date and, if such notification is given orally, the Company shall confirm same in writing on or prior to the Business Day next following. Until such notice is received by the Rights Agent, the Rights Agent may presume conclusively for all purposes that the Distribution Date has not occurred.
(b) The Company will make available, as promptly as practicable following the Record Date, a copy of a Summary of Rights, in substantially the form attached hereto as (the "") to any holder of Rights who may so request from time to time prior to the Expiration Date. With respect to shares of Common Stock outstanding as of the Record Date, or issued subsequent to the Record Date, unless and until the Distribution Date shall occur, the Rights associated with such shares will be evidenced by the balances in the Book-Entries registered in the names of the holders of the Common Stock and not by separate book-entries or Rights Certificates, and the registered holders of the Common Stock represented by such Book-Entries shall also be the registered holders of the associated Rights. Until the earlier of the Distribution Date and the Expiration Date, the transfer of any shares of Common Stock in respect of which Rights have been issued shall also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with such shares of Common Stock.
Exhibit C
Summary of Rights
(c) Rights shall be issued in respect of all shares of Common Stock which are issued (whether originally issued or from the Company's treasury or transferred to third parties by wholly owned Subsidiaries of the Company) after the Record Date but prior to the earlier of the Distribution Date and the Expiration Date. If confirmations or written notices are sent to holders of shares of Common Stock in Book-Entry form, or if the Company issues certificated shares of Common Stock (including upon transfer of outstanding Common Stock, disposition of Common Stock out of treasury stock or issuance or reissuance of Common Stock out of authorized but unissued shares) after the Record Date but prior to the earlier of the Distribution Date and the Expiration Date, such confirmations, written notices or certificates, as applicable, shall have impressed on, printed on, written on or otherwise affixed to them a legend in substantially the following form (but the failure to have such legend so impressed, printed, written or affixed shall not affect the status or validity of the Rights evidenced by such shares of Common Stock):
The shares to which this certificate or written notice relates also evidences and entitles the holder hereof to certain Rights as set forth in the Rights Agreement between Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "") and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC as Rights Agent, dated as of March 2, 2011, as it may be amended from time to time (the ""), the terms of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which is on file at the office of the Company designated for such purpose. Under certain circumstances, as set forth in the Rights Agreement, such Rights will be evidenced by separate certificates and will no longer be evidenced by the shares to which this statement relates. The Company will mail to the holder of shares to
Company
Rights Agreement
 
which this statement relates a copy of the Rights Agreement, as in effect on the date of mailing, without charge, promptly after receipt of a written request therefor. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement, Rights issued to, or held by, any Person who is, was or becomes an Acquiring Person or any Affiliate or Associate thereof (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement), whether currently held by or on behalf of such Person or by any subsequent holder, may become null and void.
With respect to shares of Common Stock in Book-Entry form for which there has been sent a confirmation or written notice (whether or not containing the foregoing legend), until the earlier of (i) the Distribution Date and (ii) the Expiration Date, the Rights associated with such shares of Common Stock shall be evidenced by the balances indicated in the Book-Entries registered in the names of the holders of the Common Stock and not be separate book-entries or Rights Certificates, and registered holders of such shares of Common Stock shall also be the registered holders of the associated Rights, and the transfer of any of such shares of Common Stock shall also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with such shares of Common Stock. With respect to certificated shares, if any, until the earlier of (i) the Distribution Date or (ii) the Expiration Date, the Rights associated with the Common Stock represented by such certificates shall be evidenced by such certificates alone, and the transfer of any such certificate shall also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with the Common Stock represented by such certificate.
Section 4. .
Form of Rights Certificates
(a) The Rights Certificates (and the forms of election to purchase and of assignment to be printed on the reverse thereof) shall each be substantially in the form set forth in hereto and may have such marks of identification or designation and such legends, summaries or endorsements printed thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, or as may be required to comply with any applicable law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which the Rights may from time to time be listed, or to conform to usage (but which shall not, in any case, affect the rights, duties or responsibilities of the Rights Agent). Subject to the provisions of Section 11 and Section 22 hereof, the Rights Certificates, whenever distributed, shall be dated as of the Record Date and on their face shall entitle the holders thereof to purchase such number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock as shall be set forth therein at the price set forth therein (such exercise price per one one-thousandth of a share, the ""), but the amount and type of securities purchasable upon the exercise of each Right and the Purchase Price thereof shall be subject to adjustment as provided herein.
Exhibit B
Purchase Price
(b) Any Rights Certificate issued pursuant to Section 3(a), Section 11(i) or Section 22 hereof that represents Rights beneficially owned by: (i) an Acquiring Person or any Associate or Affiliate of an Acquiring Person, (ii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee after the Acquiring Person becomes such, or (iii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee prior to or concurrently with the Acquiring Person becoming such and receives such Rights pursuant to either (A) a transfer (whether or not for consideration) from the Acquiring
 
Person to holders of equity interests in such Acquiring Person or to any Person with whom such Acquiring Person has any continuing agreement, arrangement or understanding regarding the transferred Rights or (B) a transfer that the Board has determined is part of a plan, arrangement or understanding that has as a primary purpose or effect the avoidance of Section 7(e) hereof, and any Rights Certificate issued pursuant to Section 6, Section 11 or Section 22 hereof upon transfer, exchange, replacement or adjustment of any other Rights Certificate referred to in this sentence, shall contain (to the extent feasible, and only if the Company has provided specific written instructions to the Rights Agent) a legend in substantially the following form:
The Rights represented by this Rights Certificate are or were beneficially owned by a Person who was or became an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement). Accordingly, this Rights Certificate and the Rights represented hereby may become null and void in the circumstances specified in Section 7(e) of the Rights Agreement.
Section 5. .
Countersignature and Registration
(a) The Rights Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President or any Vice President, either manually or by facsimile signature, and shall have affixed thereto the Company's seal or a facsimile thereof which shall be attested by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, either manually or by facsimile signature. The Rights Certificates shall be countersigned by the Rights Agent, either manually or by facsimile signature and shall not be valid for any purpose unless so countersigned. In case any officer of the Company who shall have signed any of the Rights Certificates shall cease to be such officer of the Company before countersignature by the Rights Agent and issuance and delivery by the Company, such Rights Certificates, nevertheless, may be countersigned by the Rights Agent and issued and delivered by the Company with the same force and effect as though the person who signed such Rights Certificates had not ceased to be such officer of the Company; and any Rights Certificates may be signed on behalf of the Company by any person who, at the actual date of the execution of such Rights Certificate, shall be a proper officer of the Company to sign such Rights Certificate, although at the date of the execution of this Rights Agreement any such person was not such an officer.
(b) Following the Distribution Date, upon receipt by the Rights Agent of notice to that effect and all other relevant information referred to in Section 3(a), the Rights Agent will keep, or cause to be kept, at its office designated for such purpose, books for registration and transfer of the Rights Certificates issued hereunder. Such books shall show the names and addresses of the respective holders of the Rights Certificates, the number of Rights evidenced on its face by each of the Rights Certificates and the date of each of the Rights Certificates.
Section 6. .
Transfer, Split-Up, Combination and Exchange of Rights Certificates; Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Rights Certificates
(a) Subject to the provisions of Section 4(b), Section 7(e) and Section 14 hereof, at any time after the Close of Business on the Distribution Date, and at or prior to the
 
Close of Business on the Expiration Date, any Rights Certificate or Certificates (other than Rights Certificates representing Rights that have become null and void pursuant to Section 7(e) hereof or that have been exchanged pursuant to Section 24 hereof) may be transferred, split up, combined or exchanged for another Rights Certificate or Certificates, entitling the registered holder to purchase a like number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or, following a Triggering Event, Common Stock, other securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) as the Rights Certificate or Certificates surrendered then entitles such holder (or former holder in the case of a transfer) to purchase. Any registered holder desiring to transfer, split up, combine or exchange any Rights Certificate or Certificates shall make such request in writing delivered to the Rights Agent, and shall surrender the Rights Certificate or Certificates to be transferred, split up, combined or exchanged at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose. The Right Certificates are transferable only on the registry books of the Rights Agent. Neither the Rights Agent nor the Company shall be obligated to take any action whatsoever with respect to the transfer of any such surrendered Rights Certificate until the registered holder shall have properly completed and duly signed the certificate contained in the form of assignment on the reverse side of such Rights Certificate, shall have provided such additional evidence of the identity of the Beneficial Owner (or former Beneficial Owner) thereof and of the Rights evidenced thereby and the Affiliates and Associates of such Beneficial Owner (or former Beneficial Owner) as the Company or the Rights Agent shall reasonably request and shall have paid a sum sufficient to cover any tax or charge that may be imposed in connection with any transfer, split up, combination or exchange of Rights Certificates as required by Section 9(e) hereof. Thereupon the Rights Agent shall, subject to Section 4(b), Section 7(e), Section 14 and Section 24, countersign and deliver to the Person entitled thereto a Rights Certificate or Rights Certificates, as the case may be, as so requested, registered in such name or names as may be designated by the surrendering registered holder. The Rights Agent shall promptly forward any such sum collected by it to the Company or to such Persons as the Company shall specify by written notice. The Rights Agent shall have no duty or obligation under any Section of this Agreement that requires the payment of taxes or charges unless and until it is satisfied that all such taxes and/or charges have been paid
.
(b) Upon receipt by the Company and the Rights Agent of evidence reasonably satisfactory to them of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of a Rights Certificate, and, in case of loss, theft or destruction, of indemnity or security satisfactory to them, and reimbursement to the Company and the Rights Agent of all reasonable expenses incidental thereto, and upon surrender to the Rights Agent and cancellation of the Rights Certificate, if mutilated, the Company will execute and deliver a new Rights Certificate of like tenor to the Rights Agent for countersignature and delivery to the registered owner in lieu of the Rights Certificate so lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated.
Section 7. .
Exercise of Rights; Purchase Price; Expiration Date of Rights
(a) Subject to Section 7(e) hereof, at any time after the Distribution Date the registered holder of any Rights Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby (except as otherwise provided herein including the restrictions on exercisability set forth in Section 9(c), Section 11(a)(iii), Section 23(b) and Section 24(b) hereof) in whole or in part upon surrender of the Rights Certificate, with the form of election to purchase and the certificate on the reverse side thereof properly completed and duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the office of the Rights
 
Agent designated for such purpose, together with payment of the aggregate Purchase Price with respect to the total number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or other securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) as to which such surrendered Rights are then exercisable, and an amount equal to any tax or charge required to be paid under Section 9(e), at or prior to the earlier of (i) 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on March 2, 2012, or such earlier or later date as may be established by the Board prior to the expiration of the Rights (such date, as it may be extended by the Board, the ""), and (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed or exchanged as provided in Section 23 and Section 24 hereof (the earlier of (i) and (ii) being herein referred to as the ""). Except for those provisions herein which expressly survive the termination of this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate upon the earlier of the Expiration Date and such time as all outstanding Rights have been exercised hereunder (other than Rights which have become null and void pursuant to the provisions of Section 7(e) hereof).
Final Expiration Date
Expiration Date
(b) The Purchase Price for each one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock pursuant to the exercise of a Right initially shall be $250.00, and shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Section 11 and Section 13(a) hereof and shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America in accordance with subsection (c) below.
(c) Upon receipt of a Rights Certificate representing exercisable Rights, with the form of election to purchase and the certificate properly completed and duly executed, accompanied by payment, with respect to each Right so exercised, of the Purchase Price per one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock (or other shares, securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) to be purchased as set forth below and an amount equal to any applicable tax or charge required to be paid under Section 9(e), the Rights Agent shall, subject to Section 20(k) hereof, thereupon promptly (i) (A) requisition from any transfer agent of the shares of Preferred Stock (or make available, if the Rights Agent is the transfer agent for such shares) certificates (or make entries in the book-entry account system of the transfer agent) for the total number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock to be purchased and the Company hereby irrevocably authorizes each such transfer agent to comply with all such requests, or (B) if the Company shall have elected to deposit the total number of shares of Preferred Stock issuable upon exercise of the Rights hereunder with a depositary agent, requisition from the depositary agent depositary receipts representing such number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock as are to be purchased (in which case certificates for the shares of Preferred Stock represented by such receipts shall be deposited by the transfer agent with the depositary agent) and the Company hereby directs each such depositary agent to comply with such request, (ii) when necessary to comply with this Rights Agreement, requisition from the Company the amount of cash to be paid in lieu of issuance of fractional shares in accordance with Section 14 hereof, (iii) after receipt of such certificates or depositary receipts (or confirmation or written notice that an entry has been made in the book-entry account system of the transfer agent), cause the same to be delivered to or, upon the order of the registered holder of such Rights Certificate, registered in such name or names as may be designated by such holder, and (iv) when necessary to comply with this Rights Agreement, after receipt thereof, deliver such cash to or upon the order of the registered holder of such Rights Certificate. The payment of the Purchase Price (as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii) hereof) and any taxes or charges required to be paid under Section 9(e) hereof, shall be made by certified check, cashier's check,
 
bank draft or money order payable to the order of the Company. In the event that the Company is obligated to issue other securities (including Common Stock) of the Company, pay cash and/or distribute other property pursuant to Section 11(a) hereof, the Company will make all arrangements necessary so that such other securities, cash and/or other property are available for distribution by the Rights Agent, if and when necessary to comply with this Agreement. The Company reserves the right to require prior to the occurrence of a Triggering Event that, upon any exercise of Rights, a number of Rights be exercised so that only whole shares of Preferred Stock would be issued.
(d) In case the registered holder of any Rights Certificate shall exercise less than all the Rights evidenced thereby, a new Rights Certificate evidencing the Rights remaining unexercised shall be issued by the Rights Agent to the registered holder of such Rights Certificate, registered in such name or names as may be designated by such holder, subject to the provisions of Section 14 hereof.
(e) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, from and after the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, any Rights beneficially owned by (i) an Acquiring Person or an Associate or Affiliate of an Acquiring Person, (ii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee after the Acquiring Person becomes such, or (iii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee prior to or concurrently with the Acquiring Person becoming such and receives such Rights pursuant to either (A) a transfer (whether or not for consideration) from the Acquiring Person to holders of equity interests in such Acquiring Person or to any Person with whom the Acquiring Person has any continuing agreement, arrangement or understanding regarding the transferred Rights or (B) a transfer which the Board has determined is part of a plan, arrangement or understanding that has as a primary purpose or effect the avoidance of this Section 7(e), shall become null and void without any further action and no holder of such Rights shall have any rights whatsoever with respect to such Rights, whether under any provision of this Agreement or otherwise. The Company shall use all reasonable efforts to insure that the provisions of this Section 7(e) and Section 4(b) hereof are complied with, but shall have no liability to any holder of Rights Certificates or any other Person as a result of its failure to make any determinations with respect to an Acquiring Person or any of its Affiliates, Associates or transferees hereunder.
(f) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, neither the Rights Agent nor the Company shall be obligated to undertake any action with respect to a registered holder of Rights or other securities upon the occurrence of any purported exercise as set forth in this Section 7 unless such registered holder shall have (i) properly completed and duly executed the certificate contained in the form of election to purchase set forth on the reverse side of the Rights Certificate surrendered for such exercise, and (ii) provided such additional evidence of the identity of the Beneficial Owner (or former Beneficial Owner) thereof and of the Rights evidenced thereby and of the Affiliates and Associates of such Beneficial Owner (or former Beneficial Owner) as the Company or the Rights Agent shall reasonably request.
 
Section 8. .
Cancellation and Destruction of Rights Certificates
All Rights Certificates surrendered for the purpose of exercise, transfer, split-up, combination or exchange shall, if surrendered to the Company or any of its agents, be delivered to the Rights Agent for cancellation or in cancelled form, or, if surrendered to the Rights Agent, shall be cancelled by it, and no Rights Certificates shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by any of the provisions of this Agreement. The Company shall deliver to the Rights Agent for cancellation and retirement, and the Rights Agent shall so cancel and retire, any other Rights Certificate purchased or acquired by the Company otherwise than upon the exercise thereof. The Rights Agent shall deliver all cancelled Rights Certificates to the Company, or shall, at the written request of the Company, destroy such cancelled Rights Certificates, and in such case shall deliver a certificate of destruction thereof to the Company.
Section 9. .
Reservation and Availability of Capital Stock
(a) The Company covenants and agrees that it will cause to be reserved and kept available out of its authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, out of its authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock and/or other securities or out of its authorized and issued shares held in its treasury), the number of shares of Preferred Stock (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, Common Stock and/or other securities) that, as provided in this Agreement including Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, will be sufficient to permit the exercise in full of all outstanding Rights in accordance with this Agreement.
(b) So long as the shares of Preferred Stock (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, Common Stock and/or other securities) issuable and deliverable upon the exercise of the Rights may be listed on any national securities exchange, the Company shall use its best efforts to cause, from and after such time as the Rights become exercisable, all shares reserved for such issuance to be listed on such exchange upon official notice of issuance upon such exercise.
(c) The Company shall use its best efforts to (i) file, as soon as practicable following the earliest date after the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event on which the consideration to be delivered by the Company upon exercise of the Rights has been determined in accordance with Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, a registration statement under the Act, with respect to the securities purchasable upon exercise of the Rights on an appropriate form, (ii) cause such registration statement to become effective as soon as practicable after such filing, and (iii) cause such registration statement to remain effective (with a prospectus at all times meeting the requirements of the Act) until the earlier of (A) the date as of which the Rights are no longer exercisable for such securities, and (B) the date of the expiration of the Rights. The Company will also take such action as may be appropriate under, or to ensure compliance with, the securities or "blue sky" laws of the various states in connection with the exercisability of the Rights. The Company may temporarily suspend, for a period of time not to exceed 90 days after the date set forth in clause (i) of the first sentence of this Section 9(c), the exercisability of the Rights in order to prepare and file such registration statement and permit it to become effective. Upon any such suspension, the Company shall issue a public announcement stating that the exercisability of the Rights has been temporarily suspended, as well as a public announcement at
 
such time as the suspension has been rescinded. The Company shall notify the Rights Agent whenever it makes a public announcement pursuant to this Section 9(c) and give the Rights Agent a copy of such announcement. In addition, if the Company shall determine that a registration statement is required following the Distribution Date, the Company may temporarily suspend the exercisability of the Rights until such time as a registration statement has been declared effective. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Rights shall not be exercisable in any jurisdiction if the requisite qualification in such jurisdiction shall not have been obtained, the exercise thereof shall not be permitted under applicable law, or a registration statement shall not have been declared effective.
(d) The Company covenants and agrees that it will take all such action as may be necessary to ensure that all one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, Common Stock and/or other securities) delivered upon exercise of Rights shall, at the time of delivery of the certificates (or entry in the book-entry account system of the transfer agent) for such shares (subject to payment of the Purchase Price and compliance with all other applicable provisions of this Agreement), be duly and validly authorized and issued and fully paid and nonassessable.
(e) The Company further covenants and agrees that it will pay when due and payable any and all taxes and charges which may be payable in respect of the issuance or delivery of the Rights Certificates and of any certificates (or entry in the book-entry account system of the transfer agent) for a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) upon the exercise of Rights. The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any transfer tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer or delivery of Rights Certificates to a Person other than, or the issuance or delivery of a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) in respect of a name other than that of the registered holder of the Rights Certificates evidencing Rights surrendered for exercise or to issue or deliver any certificates (or entry in the book-entry account system of the transfer agent) for a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) in a name other than that of the registered holder upon the exercise of any Rights until any such tax or charge shall have been paid (any such tax or charge being payable by the holder of such Rights Certificates at the time of surrender) or until it has been established to the Company's and the Rights Agent's satisfaction that no such tax or charge is due.
Section 10. . Each Person in whose name any certificate (or entry in the book-entry account system of the transfer agent) for a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) is issued upon the exercise of Rights shall for all purposes be deemed to have become the holder of record of such fractional shares of Preferred Stock (or Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) represented thereby on, and such certificate or book-entry shall be dated, the date upon which the Rights Certificate evidencing such Rights was duly surrendered and payment of the Purchase Price (and all applicable taxes or charges) was duly made; provided, however, that if the date of such surrender and payment is a date upon which the Preferred Stock (or Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) transfer books of the Company are closed, such Person shall be deemed to have become the record holder of such shares (fractional or otherwise) on, and such certificate or book-entry shall be dated, the next
Preferred Stock Record Date
 
succeeding Business Day on which the Preferred Stock (or Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) transfer books of the Company are open. Prior to the exercise of the Rights evidenced thereby, the holder of a Rights Certificate shall not be entitled to any rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to shares for which the Rights shall be exercisable, including the right to vote, to receive dividends or other distributions or to exercise any preemptive rights, and shall not be entitled to receive any notice of any proceedings of the Company, except as provided herein.
Section 11. . The Purchase Price, the number and kind of shares covered by each Right and the number of Rights outstanding are subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 11.
Adjustment of Purchase Price, Number and Kind of Shares or Number of Rights
(a) (i) In the event that the Company shall at any time after the date of this Agreement (A) declare a dividend on the Preferred Stock payable in shares of Preferred Stock, (B) subdivide the outstanding Preferred Stock, (C) combine the outstanding Preferred Stock into a smaller number of shares, or (D) issue any shares of its capital stock in a reclassification of the Preferred Stock (including any such reclassification in connection with a consolidation or merger in which the Company is the continuing or surviving corporation), except as otherwise provided in this Section 11(a) and Section 7(e) hereof, the Purchase Price in effect at the time of the record date for such dividend or of the effective date of such subdivision, combination or reclassification, and the number and kind of shares of Preferred Stock or capital stock, as the case may be, issuable on such date, shall be proportionately adjusted so that the holder of any Right exercised after such time shall be entitled to receive, upon payment of the Purchase Price then in effect, the aggregate number and kind of shares of Preferred Stock or capital stock, as the case may be, which, if such Right had been exercised immediately prior to such date and at a time when the Preferred Stock transfer books of the Company were open, such holder would have owned upon such exercise and been entitled to receive by virtue of such dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification. If an event occurs that would require an adjustment under both this Section 11(a)(i) and Section 11(a)(ii) hereof, the adjustment provided for in this Section 11(a)(i) shall be in addition to, and shall be made prior to, any adjustment required pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii) hereof.
(ii) In the event any Person shall, at any time after the Rights Dividend Declaration Date, become an Acquiring Person, unless the event causing such Person to become an Acquiring Person is a transaction set forth in Section 13(a) hereof, then, promptly following the later of the occurrence of such event and the Record Date, proper provision shall be made so that each holder of a Right (except as provided below and in Section 7(e) hereof) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise thereof at the then current Purchase Price in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, in lieu of a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock, such number of shares of Common Stock of the Company as shall equal the result obtained by (x) multiplying the then current Purchase Price by the then number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock for which a Right was exercisable immediately prior to the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, and (y) dividing that product (which, following such first occurrence, shall thereafter be referred to as the "
Purchase
 
" for each such Right and for all purposes of this Agreement) by 50% of the Current Market Price (determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per share of Common Stock on the date of such first occurrence (such number of shares, the ""). The Company shall give the Rights Agent written notice of the identity of any such Acquiring Person, Associate or Affiliate, or the nominee of any of the foregoing, and the Rights Agent may rely on such notice in carrying out its duties under this Agreement and shall be deemed not to have any knowledge of the identity of any such Acquiring Person, Associate or Affiliate, or the nominee of any of the foregoing, unless and until it shall have received such notice.
Price
Adjustment Shares
(iii) In the event that the number of treasury shares plus the number of shares of Common Stock that are authorized by the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, but not outstanding or reserved for issuance for purposes other than upon exercise of the Rights, is not sufficient to permit the exercise in full of the Rights in accordance with the foregoing clause (ii) of this Section 11(a), the Company shall (A) determine the value of the Adjustment Shares issuable upon the exercise of a Right (the ""), and (B) with respect to each Right (subject to Section 7(e) hereof), make adequate provision to substitute for the Adjustment Shares, upon the exercise of a Right and payment of the applicable Purchase Price, (1) cash, (2) a reduction in the Purchase Price, (3) Common Stock or other equity securities of the Company (including, without limitation, shares, or units of shares, of preferred stock, such as the Preferred Stock that the Board has deemed to have essentially the same value or economic rights as shares of Common Stock (such shares of preferred stock being referred to as "")), (4) debt securities of the Company, (5) other assets, or (6) any combination of the foregoing, having an aggregate value equal to the Current Value (less the amount of any reduction in the Purchase Price), where such aggregate value has been determined by the Board based upon the advice of a nationally recognized investment banking firm selected by the Board; , , that if the Company shall not have made adequate provision to deliver value pursuant to clause (B) above within 30 days following the later of (x) the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event and (y) the date on which the Company's right of redemption pursuant to Section 23(a) expires (the later of (x) and (y) being referred to herein as the ""), then the Company shall be obligated to deliver, upon the surrender for exercise of a Right and without requiring payment of the Purchase Price, shares of Common Stock (to the extent available) and then, if necessary, cash, which shares and/or cash have an aggregate value equal to the Spread. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term "" shall mean the excess of (i) the Current Value over (ii) the Purchase Price. If the Board determines in good faith that it is likely that sufficient additional shares of Common Stock could be authorized for issuance upon exercise in full of the Rights, the 30-day period set forth above may be extended to the extent necessary, but not more than 90 days after the Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date, in order that the Company may seek stockholder approval for the authorization of such additional shares (such 30-day
Current Value
Common Stock Equivalents
provided
however
Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date
Spread
 
period, as it may be extended, is herein called the ""). To the extent that the Company determines that action should be taken pursuant to the first and/or third sentences of this Section 11(a)(iii), the Company (1) shall provide, subject to Section 7(e) hereof, that such action shall apply uniformly to all outstanding Rights, and (2) may suspend the exercisability of the Rights until the expiration of the Substitution Period in order to seek such stockholder approval for such authorization of additional shares and/or to decide the appropriate form of distribution to be made pursuant to such first sentence and to determine the value thereof. In the event of any such suspension, the Company shall issue a public announcement stating that the exercisability of the Rights has been temporarily suspended, as well as a public announcement at such time as the suspension is no longer in effect. The Company shall notify the Rights Agent whenever it makes a public announcement pursuant to this Section 11(a)(iii) and give the Rights Agent a copy of such announcement. For purposes of this Section 11(a)(iii), the value of each Adjustment Share shall be the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock on the Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date and the per share or per unit value of any Common Stock Equivalent shall be deemed to equal the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock on such date.
Substitution Period
(b) In case the Company shall fix a record date for the issuance of rights, options or warrants to all holders of Preferred Stock entitling them to subscribe for or purchase (for a period expiring within 45 calendar days after such record date) Preferred Stock (or shares having the same rights, privileges and preferences as the shares of Preferred Stock ("")) or securities convertible into Preferred Stock or Equivalent Preferred Stock at a price per share of Preferred Stock or per share of Equivalent Preferred Stock (or having a conversion price per share, if a security convertible into Preferred Stock or Equivalent Preferred Stock) less than the Current Market Price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per share of Preferred Stock on such record date, the Purchase Price to be in effect after such record date shall be determined by multiplying the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such record date by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding on such record date, plus the number of shares of Preferred Stock that the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock and/or Equivalent Preferred Stock so to be offered (and/or the aggregate initial conversion price of the convertible securities so to be offered) would purchase at such Current Market Price, and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding on such record date, plus the number of additional shares of Preferred Stock and/or Equivalent Preferred Stock to be offered for subscription or purchase (or into which the convertible securities so to be offered are initially convertible). In case such subscription price may be paid by delivery of consideration, part or all of which may be in a form other than cash, the value of such consideration shall be as determined in good faith by the Board, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be binding on the Rights Agent and the holders of the Rights. Shares of Preferred Stock owned by or held for the account of the Company shall not be deemed outstanding for the purpose of any such computation. Such adjustment shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed, and in the event that such rights or warrants are not so issued, the Purchase Price shall be adjusted to be the Purchase Price that would then be in effect if such record date had not been fixed.
Equivalent Preferred Stock
 
(c) In case the Company shall fix a record date for the making of a distribution to all holders of Preferred Stock (including without limitation any such distribution made in connection with a consolidation or merger in which the Company is the continuing or surviving corporation), cash (other than a regular quarterly cash dividend out of the earnings or retained earnings of the Company), assets (other than a dividend payable in Preferred Stock, but including any dividend payable in stock other than Preferred Stock) or evidences of indebtedness, or of subscription rights or warrants (excluding those referred to in Section 11(b) hereof), the Purchase Price to be in effect after such record date shall be determined by multiplying the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such record date by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the Current Market Price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per share of Preferred Stock on such record date, less the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent) of the portion of the cash, assets or evidences of indebtedness so to be distributed or of such subscription rights or warrants applicable to a share of Preferred Stock, and the denominator of which shall be such Current Market Price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per share of Preferred Stock. Such adjustments shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed, and in the event that such distribution is not so made, the Purchase Price shall be adjusted to be the Purchase Price that would have been in effect if such record date had not been fixed.
(d) (i) The Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be (1) for the purpose of any computation hereunder, other than computations made pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, the average of the daily closing prices per share of such Common Stock for the 30 consecutive Trading Days immediately prior to, but not including, such date, and (2) for purposes of computations made pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, the average of the daily closing prices per share of such Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Days immediately following, but not including, such date; , , that in the event that the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock is determined during a period following the announcement by the issuer of such Common Stock of (A) a dividend or distribution on such Common Stock payable in shares of such Common Stock or securities convertible into shares of such Common Stock (other than the Rights), or (B) any subdivision, combination or reclassification of such Common Stock, and the ex-dividend date for such dividend or distribution, or the record date for such subdivision, combination or reclassification shall not have occurred prior to, but not including, the commencement of the requisite 30 Trading Day or 10 Trading Day period, as set forth above, then, and in each such case, the Current Market Price shall be properly adjusted to take into account ex-dividend trading. The closing price for each day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the shares of Common Stock are not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares of Common Stock are listed or admitted to trading or, if the shares of Common Stock are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by National
provided
however
 
Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System ("NASDAQ") or such other system then in use, or, if on any such date the shares of Common Stock are not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Common Stock selected by the Board. If on any such date no market maker is making a market in the Common Stock, the fair value of such shares on such date as determined in good faith by the Board shall be used. The term "" shall mean a day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the shares of Common Stock are listed or admitted to trading is open for the transaction of business or, if the shares of Common Stock are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, a Business Day. If the Common Stock is not publicly held or not so listed or traded, Current Market Price per share shall mean the fair value per share as determined in good faith by the Board, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be conclusive for all purposes.
Trading Day
(ii) For the purpose of any computation hereunder, the Current Market Price per share of Preferred Stock shall be determined in the same manner as set forth above for the Common Stock in clause (i) of this Section 11(d) (other than the last sentence thereof). If the Current Market Price per share of Preferred Stock cannot be determined in the manner provided above or if the Preferred Stock is not publicly held or listed or traded in a manner described in clause (i) of this Section 11(d), the Current Market Price per share of Preferred Stock shall be conclusively deemed to be an amount equal to 1,000 (as such number may be appropriately adjusted for such events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to the Common Stock occurring after the date of this Agreement) multiplied by the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock. If neither the Common Stock nor the Preferred Stock is publicly held or so listed or traded, Current Market Price per share of the Preferred Stock shall mean the fair value per share as determined in good faith by the Board, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be conclusive for all purposes.
(e) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, no adjustment in the Purchase Price shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% in the Purchase Price; , , that any adjustments that by reason of this Section 11(e) are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. All calculations under this Section 11 shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest ten-thousandth of a share of Common Stock or other share or one-millionth of a share of Preferred Stock, as the case may be. Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Section 11(e), any adjustment required by this Section 11 shall be made no later than the earlier of (i) 3 years from the date of the transaction that mandates such adjustment, and (ii) the Expiration Date.
provided
however
(f) If as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii) or Section 13(a) hereof, the holder of any Right thereafter exercised shall become entitled to receive any shares of capital stock other than Preferred Stock, thereafter the number of such other shares so receivable upon exercise of any Right and the Purchase Price thereof shall be subject to adjustment from time to time in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as practicable to the
 
provisions with respect to the Preferred Stock contained in Sections 11 (a), (b), (c), (e), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k) and (m), and the provisions of Sections 7, 9, 10, 13 and 14 hereof with respect to the Preferred Stock shall apply on like terms to any such other shares.
(g) All Rights originally issued by the Company subsequent to any adjustment made to the Purchase Price hereunder shall evidence the right to purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock purchasable from time to time hereunder upon exercise of the Rights, all subject to further adjustment as provided herein.
(h) Unless the Company shall have exercised its election as provided in Section 11(i), upon each adjustment of the Purchase Price as a result of the calculations made in Sections 11(b) and (c), each Right outstanding immediately prior to the making of such adjustment shall thereafter evidence the right to purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, that number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (calculated to the nearest one-millionth) obtained by (i) multiplying (x) the number of one one-thousandths of a share covered by a Right immediately prior to such adjustment, by (y) the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such adjustment of the Purchase Price, and (ii) dividing the product so obtained by the Purchase Price in effect immediately after such adjustment of the Purchase Price.
(i) The Company may elect on or after the date of any adjustment of the Purchase Price to adjust the number of Rights, in lieu of any adjustment in the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock purchasable upon the exercise of a Right. Each of the Rights outstanding after the adjustment in the number of Rights shall be exercisable for the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock for which a Right was exercisable immediately prior to such adjustment. Each Right held of record prior to such adjustment of the number of Rights shall become that number of Rights (calculated to the nearest one-ten-thousandth) obtained by dividing the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to adjustment of the Purchase Price by the Purchase Price in effect immediately after adjustment of the Purchase Price. The Company shall make a public announcement (with prompt written notice thereof to the Rights Agent) of its election to adjust the number of Rights, indicating the record date for the adjustment, and, if known at the time, the amount of the adjustment to be made. This record date may be the date on which the Purchase Price is adjusted or any day thereafter, but, if the Rights Certificates have been issued, shall be at least 10 days later than the date of the public announcement. If Rights Certificates have been issued, upon each adjustment of the number of Rights pursuant to this Section 11(i), the Company shall, as promptly as practicable, cause to be distributed to holders of record of Rights Certificates on such record date Rights Certificates evidencing, subject to Section 14 hereof, the additional Rights to which such holders shall be entitled as a result of such adjustment, or, at the option of the Company, shall cause to be distributed to such holders of record in substitution and replacement for the Rights Certificates held by such holders prior to the date of adjustment, and upon surrender thereof, if required by the Company, new Rights Certificates evidencing all the Rights to which such holders shall be entitled after such adjustment. Rights Certificates so to be distributed shall be issued, executed and delivered by the Company, and countersigned and delivered by the Rights Agent, in the manner provided for herein (and may bear, at the option of the Company, the adjusted Purchase Price) and shall be registered in the names of the holders of record of Rights Certificates on the record date specified in the public announcement.
 
(j) Irrespective of any adjustment or change in the Purchase Price or the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock issuable upon the exercise of the Rights, the Rights Certificates theretofore and thereafter issued may continue to express the Purchase Price per one one-thousandth of a share and the number of one one-thousandth of a share that were expressed in the initial Rights Certificates issued hereunder.
(k) Before taking any action that would cause an adjustment reducing the Purchase Price below the then stated value, if any, of the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock issuable upon exercise of the Rights, the Company shall take any corporate action that may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue fully paid and nonassessable such number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock at such adjusted Purchase Price.
(l) In any case in which this Section 11 shall require that an adjustment in the Purchase Price be made effective as of a record date for a specified event, the Company may elect to defer (with prompt written notice thereof to the Rights Agent) until the occurrence of such event the issuance to the holder of any Right exercised after such record date the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock and other capital stock or securities of the Company, if any, issuable upon such exercise over and above the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock and other capital stock or securities of the Company, if any, issuable upon such exercise on the basis of the Purchase Price in effect prior to such adjustment; , , that the Company shall deliver to such holder a due bill or other appropriate instrument evidencing such holder's right to receive such additional shares (fractional or otherwise) or securities upon the occurrence of the event requiring such adjustment.
provided
however
(m) Anything in this Section 11 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall be entitled to make such reductions in the Purchase Price, in addition to those adjustments expressly required by this Section 11, as and to the extent that in their good faith judgment the Board shall determine to be advisable in order that any (i) consolidation or subdivision of the Preferred Stock, (ii) issuance wholly for cash of any shares of Preferred Stock at less than the Current Market Price, (iii) issuance wholly for cash of shares of Preferred Stock or securities that by their terms are convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Preferred Stock, (iv) stock dividends, or (v) issuance of rights, options or warrants referred to in this Section 11, hereafter made by the Company to holders of its Preferred Stock shall not be taxable to such stockholders.
(n) The Company covenants and agrees that it shall not, at any time after the Distribution Date, (i) consolidate with any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction that complies with Section 11(o) hereof), (ii) merge with or into any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction that complies with Section 11(o) hereof), or (iii) sell or transfer (or permit any Subsidiary to sell or transfer), in one transaction, or a series of related transactions, assets, cash flow or earning power aggregating more than 50% of the assets, cash flow or earning power of the Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any other Person or Persons (other than the Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries in one or more transactions each of which complies with Section 11(o) hereof), if (x) at the time of or immediately after such consolidation, merger or sale there are any rights, warrants or other instruments or securities outstanding or agreements in effect that would substantially diminish or otherwise eliminate the benefits intended to be afforded by the Rights or (y) prior to,
 
simultaneously with or immediately after such consolidation, merger or sale, the stockholders of the Person that constitutes, or would constitute, the "Principal Party" for purposes of Section 13(a) hereof shall have received a distribution of Rights previously owned by such Person or any of its Affiliates and Associates.
(o) The Company covenants and agrees that, after the Distribution Date, it will not, except as permitted by Section 23 or Section 27 hereof, take (or permit any Subsidiary to take) any action if at the time such action is taken it is reasonably foreseeable that such action will diminish substantially or otherwise eliminate the benefits intended to be afforded by the Rights.
(p) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event that the Company shall at any time after the Rights Dividend Declaration Date and prior to the Distribution Date (i) declare a dividend on the outstanding shares of Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding shares of Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, the number of Rights associated with each share of Common Stock then outstanding, or issued or delivered thereafter but prior to the Distribution Date, shall be proportionately adjusted so that the number of Rights thereafter associated with each share of Common Stock following any such event shall equal the result obtained by multiplying the number of Rights associated with each share of Common Stock immediately prior to such event by a fraction the numerator which shall be the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the occurrence of the event and the denominator of which shall be the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately following the occurrence of such event.
Section 12. . Whenever an adjustment is made or an event affecting the Rights or their exercisability (including without limitation an event which causes Rights to become null and void) occurs as provided in Section 11 or Section 13 hereof, the Company shall (a) promptly prepare a certificate setting forth such adjustment or describing such event, and a brief, reasonably detailed statement of the facts, computations and methodology accounting for such adjustment, (b) promptly file with the Rights Agent, and with each transfer agent for the Preferred Stock and the Common Stock, a copy of such certificate, and (c) if a Distribution Date has occurred, mail a brief summary thereof to each holder of a Rights Certificate (or, if prior to the Distribution Date, to each holder of shares of Common Stock) in accordance with Section 25 and Section 26 hereof. The Rights Agent shall be fully protected in relying on any such certificate and on any adjustment or statement therein contained and shall have no duty or liability with respect to, and shall not be deemed to have knowledge of, any adjustment or any such event unless and until it shall have received such a certificate.
Certificate of Adjusted Purchase Price or Number of Shares
Section 13. .
Consolidation, Merger or Sale or Transfer of Assets, Cash Flow or Earning Power
(a) In the event that any Person shall become an Acquiring Person and, directly or indirectly, (x) the Company shall consolidate with, or merge with and into, any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction that complies with Section 11(o) hereof), and the Company shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation of such
 
consolidation or merger, (y) any Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction that complies with Section 11(o) hereof) shall consolidate with, or merge with or into, the Company, and the Company shall be the continuing or surviving corporation of such consolidation or merger and, in connection with such consolidation or merger, all or part of the outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be changed into or exchanged for stock or other securities of any other Person or cash or any other property, or (z) the Company shall sell or otherwise transfer (or one or more of its Subsidiaries shall sell or otherwise transfer), in one transaction or a series of related transactions, assets, cash flow or earning power aggregating more than 50% of the assets, cash flow or earning power of the Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any Person or Persons (other than the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company in one or more transactions each of that complies with Section 11(o) hereof), then, and in each such case, proper provision shall be made so that: (i) each holder of a Right, except as provided in Section 7(e) hereof, shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon the exercise thereof at the then current Purchase Price in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such number of validly authorized and issued, fully paid, non-assessable and freely tradeable shares of Common Stock of the Principal Party (as such term is hereinafter defined), not subject to any liens, encumbrances, rights of first refusal or other adverse claims, as shall be equal to the result obtained by (1) multiplying the then current Purchase Price by the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock for which a Right is exercisable immediately prior to the first occurrence of a Section 13 Event (or, if a Section 11(a)(ii) Event has occurred prior to the first occurrence of a Section 13 Event, multiplying the number of such one one-thousandths of a share for which a Right was exercisable immediately prior to the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event by the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event), and (2) dividing that product (which, following the first occurrence of a Section 13 Event, shall be referred to as the "Purchase Price" for each Right and for all purposes of this Agreement) by 50% of the Current Market Price (determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(i) hereof) per share of the Common Stock of such Principal Party on the date of consummation of such Section 13 Event; (ii) such Principal Party shall thereafter be liable for, and shall assume, by virtue of such Section 13 Event, all the obligations and duties of the Company pursuant to this Agreement; (iii) the term "Company" shall thereafter be deemed to refer to such Principal Party, it being specifically intended that the provisions of Section 11 hereof shall apply only to such Principal Party following the first occurrence of a Section 13 Event; (iv) such Principal Party shall take such steps (including, but not limited to, the reservation of a sufficient number of shares of its Common Stock) in connection with the consummation of any such transaction as may be necessary to assure that the provisions hereof shall thereafter be applicable, as nearly as reasonably may be, in relation to its shares of Common Stock thereafter deliverable upon the exercise of the Rights; and (v) the provisions of Section 11(a)(ii) hereof shall be of no effect following the first occurrence of any Section 13 Event.
(b) "" shall mean:
Principal Party
(i) in the case of any transaction described in clause (x) or (y) of the first sentence of Section 13(a) hereof, the Person that is the issuer of any securities into which shares of Common Stock of the Company are converted in such merger or consolidation, and if no securities are so issued, the Person that is the other party to such merger or consolidation; and
 
(ii) in the case of any transaction described in clause (z) of the first sentence of Section 13(a) hereof, the Person that is the party receiving the greatest portion of the assets, cash flow or earning power transferred pursuant to such transaction or transactions;
, , that in any such case described in clause (i) or (ii), (1) if the Common Stock of such Person is not at such time or has not been continuously over the preceding 12-month period registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, and such Person is a direct or indirect Subsidiary of another Person the Common Stock of which is and has been so registered, "Principal Party" shall refer to such other Person; and (2) if such Person is a Subsidiary, directly or indirectly, of more than one Person, the Common Stock of two or more of which are and have been so registered, "Principal Party" shall refer to whichever of such Persons is the issuer of the Common Stock having the greatest aggregate market value.
provided
however
(c) The Company shall not consummate any such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer unless the Principal Party shall have a sufficient number of authorized shares of its Common Stock that have not been issued or reserved for issuance to permit the exercise in full of the Rights in accordance with this Section 13 and unless prior thereto the Company and such Principal Party shall have executed and delivered to the Rights Agent a supplemental agreement providing for the terms set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 13 and further providing that, as soon as practicable after the date of any consolidation, merger or sale of assets mentioned in subsection (a) of this Section 13, the Principal Party will:
(i) prepare and file a registration statement under the Act, with respect to the Rights and the securities purchasable upon exercise of the Rights on an appropriate form, and will use its best efforts to cause such registration statement to (A) become effective as soon as practicable after such filing and (B) remain effective (with a prospectus at all times meeting the requirements of the Act) until the Expiration Date;
(ii) take all such other action as may be necessary to enable the Principal Party to issue the securities purchasable upon exercise of the Rights, including but not limited to the registration or qualification of such securities under all requisite securities laws of jurisdictions of the various states and the listing of such securities on such exchanges and trading markets as may be necessary or appropriate; and
(iii) will deliver to holders of the Rights historical financial statements for the Principal Party and each of its Affiliates that comply in all respects with the requirements for registration on Form 10 under the Exchange Act.
The provisions of this Section 13 shall similarly apply to successive mergers or consolidations or sales or other transfers. In the event that a Section 13 Event shall occur at any time after the occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, the Rights that have not theretofore been exercised shall thereafter become exercisable in the manner described in Section 13(a).
 
(d) In case the Principal Party which is to be a party to a transaction referred to in this Section 13 has provision in any of its authorized securities or in its Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws or other instrument governing its corporate affairs, which provision would have the effect of (i) causing such Principal Party to issue, in connection with, or as a consequence of, the consummation of a transaction referred to in this Section 13, shares of Common Stock of such Principal Party at less than the then Current Market Price per share (determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) or securities exercisable for, or convertible into, Common Stock of such Principal Party at less than such then Current Market Price (other than to holders of Rights pursuant to this Section 13) or (ii) providing for any special payment, tax or similar provisions in connection with the issuance of the Common Stock of such Principal Party pursuant to the provisions of Section 13; then, in such event, the Company shall not consummate any such transaction unless prior thereto the Company and such Principal Party shall have executed and delivered to the Rights Agent a supplemental agreement providing that the provision in question of such Principal Party shall have been cancelled, waived or amended, or that the authorized securities shall be redeemed, so that the applicable provision will have no effect in connection with, or as a consequence of, the consummation of the proposed transaction.
Section 14. .
Fractional Rights and Fractional Shares
(a) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of Rights, except prior to the Distribution Date as provided in Section 11(p) hereof, or to distribute Rights Certificates that evidence fractional Rights. In lieu of such fractional Rights, the Company shall pay to the registered holders of the Rights Certificates with regard to which such fractional Rights would otherwise be issuable, an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of a whole Right. For purposes of this Section 14(a), the current market value of a whole Right shall be the closing price of the Rights for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date on which such fractional Rights would have been otherwise issuable. The closing price of the Rights for any day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Rights are not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which the Rights are listed or admitted to trading, or if the Rights are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by NASDAQ or such other system then in use or, if on any such date the Rights are not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Rights, selected by the Board. If on any such date no such market maker is making a market in the Rights, the fair value of the Rights on such date as determined in good faith by the Board shall be used.
(b) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of shares of Preferred Stock (other than fractions that are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock) upon exercise of the Rights, to authorize book-entries which evidence fractional shares of Preferred Stock (other than fractions that are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock) or to distribute certificates which evidence fractional
 
shares of Preferred Stock (other than fractions that are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock). In lieu of fractional shares of Preferred Stock that are not integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock, the Company may pay to the registered holders of Rights Certificates at the time such Rights are exercised as herein provided an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock. For purposes of this Section 14(b), the current market value of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock shall be one one-thousandth of the closing price of a share of Preferred Stock (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(ii) hereof) for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of such exercise.
(c) Following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, the Company shall not be required to issue fractions of shares of Common Stock upon exercise of the Rights, to authorize Book-Entries that represent fractional shares of Common Stock or to distribute certificates that evidence fractional shares of Common Stock. In lieu of fractional shares of Common Stock, the Company may pay to the registered holders of Rights Certificates at the time such Rights are exercised as herein provided an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of one share of Common Stock. For purposes of this Section 14(c), the current market value of one share of Common Stock shall be the closing price per share of Common Stock (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(i) hereof) on the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of such exercise.
(d) The holder of a Right by the acceptance of the Rights expressly waives its right to receive any fractional Rights or any fractional shares upon exercise of a Right, except as permitted by this Section 14.
(e) Whenever a payment for fractional Rights or fractional shares is to be made by the Rights Agent, the Company shall (i) promptly prepare and deliver to the Rights Agent a certificate setting forth in reasonable detail the facts related to such payments and the prices and/or formulas utilized in calculating such payments, and (ii) provide sufficient monies to the Rights Agent in the form of fully collected funds to make such payments. The Rights Agent shall be fully protected in relying upon such a certificate and shall have no duty with respect to, and shall not be deemed to have knowledge of, any payment of cash for fractional Rights or fractional shares under any Section of this Agreement relating to the payment of cash for fractional Rights or fractional shares unless and until the Rights Agent shall have received such a certificate and sufficient monies.
Section 15. . All rights of action in respect of this Agreement, excepting the rights of action given to the Rights Agent under Section 18 and Section 20, are vested in the respective registered holders of the Rights Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, the registered holders of the Common Stock); and any registered holder of any Rights Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, of the Common Stock), without the consent of the Rights Agent or of the holder of any other Rights Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, of the Common Stock), may, in its own behalf and for its own benefit, enforce, and may institute and maintain any suit, action or proceeding against the Company to enforce, or otherwise act in respect of, its right to exercise the Rights evidenced by such Rights Certificate in the manner provided in such Rights Certificate and in this Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing or any remedies available to the holders of Rights, it is specifically acknowledged that
Rights of Action
 
the holders of Rights would not have an adequate remedy at law for any breach of this Agreement and shall be entitled to specific performance of the obligations hereunder and injunctive relief against actual or threatened violations of the obligations hereunder of any Person subject to this Agreement.
Section 16. . Every holder of a Right by accepting the same consents and agrees with the Company and the Rights Agent and with every other holder of a Right that:
Agreement of Rights Holders
(a) prior to the Distribution Date, the Rights shall be evidenced by the Book-Entries representing shares of Common Stock registered in the names of the holders of Common Stock, which Book-Entries shall also be deemed book-entries for Rights and not be separate book-entries or Rights Certificates, and each Right will be transferable only in connection with the transfer of Common Stock;
(b) after the Distribution Date, the Rights Certificates are transferable only on the registry books of the Rights Agent if surrendered at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, duly endorsed or accompanied by a proper instrument of transfer and with the appropriate forms and certificates fully executed;
(c) subject to Section 6(a) and Section 7(f) hereof, the Company and the Rights Agent may deem and treat the Person in whose name a Rights Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, the associated Common Stock) is registered as the absolute owner thereof and of the Rights evidenced thereby (notwithstanding any notations of ownership or writing on the Rights Certificates (or the associated Common Stock certificate, if any) made by anyone other than the Company or the Rights Agent) for all purposes whatsoever, and neither the Company nor the Rights Agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary; and
(d) notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, neither the Company nor the Rights Agent shall have any liability to any holder of a Right or other Person as a result of its inability to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement by reason of any preliminary or permanent injunction or other order, judgment, decree or ruling (whether interlocutory or final) issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or by a governmental, regulatory, self-regulatory or administrative agency or commission, or any statute, rule, regulation or executive order promulgated or enacted by any governmental authority, prohibiting or otherwise restraining performance of such obligation; provided, however, the Company must use its best efforts to have any such injunction, order, judgment, decree or ruling lifted or otherwise overturned as soon as possible.
Section 17. . No holder, as such, of any Rights Certificate shall be entitled to vote, receive dividends or be deemed for any purpose the holder of the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock or any other securities of the Company that may at any time be issuable on the exercise of the Rights represented thereby, nor shall anything contained herein or in any Rights Certificate be construed to confer upon the holder of any Rights Certificate, as such, any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company or any right to vote for the election of directors or upon any matter submitted to stockholders at any meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent to any corporate
Rights Certificate Holder Not Deemed a Stockholder
 
action, or to receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting stockholders (except as provided in Section 25 hereof), or to receive dividends or subscription rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights evidenced by such Rights Certificate shall have been exercised in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Section 18. .
Concerning the Rights Agent
(a) The Company agrees to pay to the Rights Agent reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder and to reimburse the Rights Agent for all reasonable expenses, counsel fees and disbursements and other disbursements incurred in the preparation, delivery, amendment, administration and execution of this Agreement and the exercise and performance of its duties hereunder. The Company also agrees to indemnify the Rights Agent for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, judgment, fine, penalty, claim, demand, settlement, damage, cost, liability or expense, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of legal counsel, incurred without gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of the Rights Agent (which gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct must be determined by a final, non-appealable order, judgment, decree or ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction), for any action taken, suffered or omitted by the Rights Agent pursuant to this Agreement or in connection with the acceptance, administration, exercise and performance of its duties under this Agreement, including the costs and expenses of defending against any claim of liability in the premises of the Rights Agent. The costs and expenses incurred in enforcing this right of indemnification shall be paid by the Company. Any liability of the Rights Agent under this Agreement will be limited to the amount of fees paid by the Company to the Rights Agent. The provisions of this Section 18 and Section 20 below shall survive the termination of this Agreement, the exercise or expiration of the Rights, and the resignation, replacement or removal of the Rights Agent.
(b) The Rights Agent shall be fully protected and authorized and shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in connection with its acceptance and administration of this Agreement and the exercise and performance of its duties hereunder, in reliance upon any Rights Certificate or certificate for Common Stock or for other securities of the Company, instrument of assignment or transfer, power of attorney, endorsement, affidavit, letter, notice, direction, consent, certificate, statement, or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to be signed, executed and, where necessary, verified or acknowledged, by the proper Person or Persons, or otherwise upon the advice of counsel as set forth in Section 20. The Rights Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any event of which it was supposed to receive notice thereof hereunder, and the Rights Agent shall be fully protected and shall incur no liability for failing to take any action in connection therewith, unless and until it has received such notice.
Section 19. .
Merger or Consolidation or Change of Name of Rights Agent
(a) Any Person into which the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent may be merged or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to the business of the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent, shall be the successor to the Rights Agent under this Agreement without the execution or
 
filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto; but only if such Person would be eligible for appointment as a successor Rights Agent under the provisions of Section 21 hereof. In case at the time such successor Rights Agent shall succeed to the agency created by this Agreement, any of the Rights Certificates shall have been countersigned but not delivered, any such successor Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature of a predecessor Rights Agent and deliver such Rights Certificates so countersigned; and in case at that time any of the Rights Certificates shall not have been countersigned, any successor Rights Agent may countersign such Rights Certificates either in the name of the predecessor Rights Agent or in the name of the successor Rights Agent; and in all such cases such Rights Certificates shall have the full force provided in the Rights Certificates and in this Agreement.
(b) In case at any time the name of the Rights Agent shall be changed and at such time any of the Rights Certificates shall have been countersigned but not delivered, the Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature under its prior name and deliver Rights Certificates so countersigned; and in case at that time any of the Rights Certificates shall not have been countersigned, the Rights Agent may countersign such Rights Certificates either in its prior name or in its changed name; and in all such cases such Rights Certificates shall have the full force provided in the Rights Certificates and in this Agreement.
Section 20. . The Rights Agent undertakes to perform only the duties and obligations expressly imposed by this Agreement (and no implied duties), upon the following terms and conditions, by all of which the Company and the holders of Rights Certificates, by their acceptance thereof, shall be bound:
Duties of Rights Agent
(a) The Rights Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be, without limitation, legal counsel for the Company or an employee of the Rights Agent), and the advice or opinion of such counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection to the Rights Agent and the Rights Agent shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it and in accordance with such advice or opinion.
(b) Whenever in the performance of its duties under this Agreement the Rights Agent shall deem it necessary or desirable that any fact or matter (including, without limitation, the identity of any Acquiring Person and the determination of Current Market Price) be proved or established by the Company prior to taking, suffering or omitting to take any action hereunder, such fact or matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Rights Agent; and such certificate shall be full and complete authorization and protection to the Rights Agent and the Rights Agent shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Agreement in reliance upon such certificate.
(c) The Rights Agent shall be liable hereunder to the Company and any other Persons only for its own gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct (which gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct must be determined by a final, non-appealable order, judgment, decree or ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction). In no case, however, will the Rights Agent be liable for special, indirect, punitive, incidental or consequential losses or
 
damages of any kind whatsoever (including but not limited to lost profits), even if the Rights Agent has been advised of the possibility or likelihood of such losses or damages.
(d) The Rights Agent shall not be liable for or by reason of any of the statements of fact or recitals contained in this Agreement or in the Rights Certificates or be required to verify the same (except as to its countersignature on such Rights Certificates), but all such statements and recitals are and shall be deemed to have been made by the Company only.
(e) The Rights Agent shall not have any liability for or be under any responsibility in respect of the validity of this Agreement or the execution and delivery hereof (except the due execution and delivery hereof by the Rights Agent) or in respect of the validity or execution of any Rights Certificate (except its countersignature thereof); nor shall it be responsible for any breach by the Company of any covenant or condition contained in this Agreement or in any Rights Certificate; nor shall it be responsible for any change in the exercisability of the Rights (including the Rights becoming null and void pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii) hereof) or any change or adjustment in the terms of the Rights (including the manner, method or amount thereof) provided for in Section 3, 11, 13, 23 or 24, or the ascertaining of the existence of facts that would require any such change or adjustment (except with respect to the exercise of Rights evidenced by Rights Certificates after receipt of the certificate described in Section 12, upon which the Rights Agent may rely); nor shall it by any act hereunder be deemed to make any representation or warranty as to the authorization or reservation of any shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock to be issued pursuant to this Agreement or any Rights Certificate or as to whether any shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock will, when so issued, be validly authorized and issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
(f) The Company agrees that it will perform, execute, acknowledge and deliver or cause to be performed, executed, acknowledged and delivered all such further and other acts, instruments and assurances as may reasonably be required by the Rights Agent for the carrying out or performing by the Rights Agent of the provisions of this Agreement.
(g) The Rights Agent is hereby authorized and directed to accept instructions with respect to the performance of its duties hereunder from any one of the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of the Company, and to apply to such officers for advice or instructions in connection with its duties, and such instructions shall be full authorization and protection to the Rights Agent and the Rights Agent shall not be liable for or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in accordance with instructions of any such officer or for any delay in acting while waiting for those instructions. The Rights Agent shall be fully authorized and protected in relying upon the most recent instructions received from any such officers. Any application by the Rights Agent for written instructions from the Company may, at the option of the Rights Agent, set forth in writing any action proposed to be taken, suffered or omitted by the Rights Agent under this Agreement and the date on and/or after which such action shall be taken or suffered or such omission shall be effective. The Rights Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or suffered by, or omission of, the Rights Agent in accordance with a proposal included in any such application on or after the date specified in such application (which date shall not be less than five Business Days after the date any officer of the Company actually receives such application, unless any such officer shall have consented in writing to an earlier
 
date) unless, prior to taking any such action (or the effective date in the case of an omission), the Rights Agent shall have received written instructions in response to such application specifying the action to be taken, suffered or omitted.
(h) The Rights Agent and any stockholder, affiliate, director, officer or employee of the Rights Agent may buy, sell or deal in any of the Rights or other securities of the Company or become pecuniarily interested in any transaction in which the Company may be interested, or contract with or lend money to the Company or otherwise act as fully and freely as though the Rights Agent were not Rights Agent under this Agreement. Nothing herein shall preclude the Rights Agent or any such stockholder, affiliate, director, officer or employee of the Rights Agent from acting in any other capacity for the Company or for any other Person.
(i) The Rights Agent may execute and exercise any of the rights or powers hereby vested in it or perform any duty hereunder either itself (through its directors, officers and employees) or by or through its attorneys or agents, and the Rights Agent shall not be answerable or accountable for any act, default, neglect or misconduct of any such attorneys or agents or for any loss to the Company or any other Person resulting from any such act, default, neglect or misconduct, absent gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct in the selection and continued employment thereof (which gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct must be determined by a final, non-appealable order, judgment, decree or ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction).
(j) No provision of this Agreement shall require the Rights Agent to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers if it believes that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnification against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
(k) If, with respect to any Rights Certificate surrendered to the Rights Agent for exercise or transfer, the certificate attached to the form of assignment or form of election to purchase, as the case may be, has either not been completed or indicates an affirmative response to clause 1 and/or 2 thereof, the Rights Agent shall not take any further action with respect to such requested exercise or transfer without first consulting with the Company.
Section 21. . The Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent may resign and be discharged from its duties under this Agreement upon at least 30 days' notice in writing mailed to the Company, and to each transfer agent of the Common Stock and Preferred Stock known to the Rights Agent, by registered or certified mail, and, if such resignation occurs after the Distribution Date, to the registered holders of the Rights Certificates by first-class mail. The Company may remove the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent upon at least 30 days' notice in writing, mailed to the Rights Agent or successor Rights Agent, as the case may be, and to each transfer agent of the Common Stock and Preferred Stock, by registered or certified mail, and, if such removal occurs after the Distribution Date, to the holders of the Rights Certificates by first-class mail. If the Rights Agent shall resign or be removed or shall otherwise become incapable of acting, the Company shall appoint a successor to the Rights Agent. If the Company shall fail to make such appointment within a period of 30 days after giving notice of such removal or after it has been notified in writing of such resignation or
Change of Rights Agent
 
incapacity by the resigning or incapacitated Rights Agent or by the holder of a Rights Certificate (who shall, with such notice, submit his Rights Certificate for inspection by the Company), then any registered holder of any Rights Certificate may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a new Rights Agent. Any successor Rights Agent, whether appointed by the Company or by such a court, shall be (a) a Person organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, in good standing, which is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust, stock transfer or stockholder services powers and which at the time of its appointment as Rights Agent has, or with its parent has, a combined capital and surplus of at least $25,000,000 or (b) an affiliate of a Person described in clause (a) of this sentence. After appointment, the successor Rights Agent shall be vested with the same powers, rights, duties and responsibilities as if it had been originally named as Rights Agent under this Agreement without further act or deed; but the predecessor Rights Agent shall deliver and transfer to the successor Rights Agent any property at the time held by it hereunder, and execute and deliver any further assurance, conveyance, act or deed necessary for the purpose. Not later than the effective date of any such appointment, the Company shall file notice thereof in writing with the predecessor Rights Agent and each transfer agent of the Common Stock and the Preferred Stock, and, if such appointment occurs after the Distribution Date, mail a notice thereof in writing to the registered holders of the Rights Certificates. Failure to give any notice provided for in this Section 21, however, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of the resignation or removal of the Rights Agent or the appointment of the successor Rights Agent, as the case may be.
Section 22. . Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Agreement or of the Rights to the contrary, the Company may, at its option, issue new Rights Certificates evidencing Rights in such form as may be approved by the Board to reflect any adjustment or change in the Purchase Price and the number or kind or class of shares or other securities or property purchasable under the Rights Certificates made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. In addition, in connection with the issuance or sale of shares of Common Stock following the Distribution Date and prior to the redemption or expiration of the Rights, the Company (a) shall, with respect to shares of Common Stock so issued or sold pursuant to the exercise of stock options or under any employee plan or arrangement, granted or awarded as of the Distribution Date, or upon the exercise, conversion or exchange of securities hereinafter issued by the Company, and (b) may, in any other case, if deemed necessary or appropriate by the Board, issue Rights Certificates representing the appropriate number of Rights in connection with such issuance or sale; provided, however, that (i) no such Rights Certificate shall be issued if, and to the extent that, the Company shall be advised by counsel that such issuance would create a significant risk of material adverse tax consequences to the Company or the Person to whom such Rights Certificate would be issued, and (ii) no such Rights Certificate shall be issued if, and to the extent that, appropriate adjustment shall otherwise have been made in lieu of the issuance thereof.
Issuance of New Rights Certificates
Section 23. .
Redemption and Termination
(a) The Board may, at its option, at any time prior to the earlier of (i) the Stock Acquisition Date, and (ii) the Final Expiration Date, (x) redeem all but not less than all of the then outstanding Rights at a redemption price of $0.001 per Right (rounded up to the nearest whole $0.01 in the case of any holder whose holdings are not in a multiple of ten), as such
 
amount may be appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction occurring after the date hereof (such redemption price being hereinafter referred to as the "") or (y) amend this Agreement to change the Final Expiration Date to another date, including an earlier date. The Company may, at its option, pay the Redemption Price in cash, shares of Common Stock (based on the Current Market Price, as defined in Section 11(d)(i) hereof, of the Common Stock at the time of redemption) or any other form of consideration deemed appropriate by the Board.
Redemption Price
(b) Immediately upon the action of the Board ordering the redemption of the Rights, written evidence of which shall promptly have been delivered to the Rights Agent, and without any further action and without any notice, the right to exercise the Rights will terminate and the only right thereafter of the holders of Rights shall be to receive the Redemption Price for each Right so held. Promptly after the action of the Board ordering the redemption of the Rights, the Company shall give notice of such redemption to the Rights Agent and the holders of the then outstanding Rights by mailing such notice to all such holders at each holder's last address as it appears upon the registry books of the Rights Agent or, prior to the Distribution Date, on the registry books of the transfer agent for the Common Stock. Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be deemed given, whether or not the holder receives the notice. Each such notice of redemption will state the method by which the payment of the Redemption Price will be made.
Section 24. .
Exchange
(a) The Board may, at its option, at any time after any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, exchange all or part of the then outstanding and exercisable Rights (which shall not include Rights that have become null and void pursuant to the provisions of Section 7(e) hereof) for Common Stock at an exchange ratio of one share of Common Stock per Right, appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction occurring after the date hereof (such exchange ratio being hereinafter referred to as the ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board shall not be empowered to effect such exchange at any time after any Person (other than the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any employee benefit plan of the Company or any such Subsidiary, or any Person holding Common Stock for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan), together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, becomes the Beneficial Owner of 50% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding.
Exchange Ratio
(b) Immediately upon the action of the Board ordering the exchange of any Rights pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 24 and without any further action and without any notice, the right to exercise such Rights shall terminate and the only right thereafter of a holder of such Rights shall be to receive that number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of such Rights held by such holder multiplied by the Exchange Ratio. The Company shall promptly give public notice of any such exchange (with prompt written notice thereof to the Rights Agent); , , that the failure to give, or any defect in, such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of such exchange. The Company promptly shall mail a notice of any such exchange to all of the holders of such Rights at their last addresses as they appear upon the registry books of the Rights Agent. Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be deemed given, whether or not the holder receives the notice. Each such notice
provided
however
 
of exchange will state the method by which the exchange of the Common Stock for Rights will be effected and, in the event of any partial exchange, the number of Rights which will be exchanged. Any partial exchange shall be effected pro rata based on the number of Rights (other than Rights which have become null and void pursuant to the provisions of Section 7(e) hereof) held by each holder of Rights.
(c) In the event that there shall not be sufficient shares of Common Stock issued but not outstanding or authorized but unissued to permit any exchange of Rights as contemplated in accordance with this Section 24, the Company shall take all such action as may be necessary to authorize additional shares of Common Stock for issuance upon exchange of the Rights. In the event the Company shall, after good faith effort, be unable to take all such action as may be necessary to authorize such additional shares of Common Stock, the Company shall substitute, for each share of Common Stock that would otherwise be issuable upon exchange of a Right, a number of shares of Preferred Stock or fraction thereof such that the Current Market Price of one share of Preferred Stock multiplied by such number or fraction is equal to the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock as of the date of issuance of such share of Preferred Stock or fraction thereof.
(d) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of shares of Common Stock, to authorize Book-Entries which evidence fractional shares of Common Stock or to distribute certificates which evidence fractional shares of Common Stock. In lieu of such fractional shares of Common Stock, there shall be paid to the registered holders of the Rights Certificates with regard to which such fractional shares of Common Stock would otherwise be issuable, an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of a whole share of Common Stock. For the purposes of this subsection (d), the current market value of a whole share of Common Stock shall be the closing price of a share of Common Stock (as determined pursuant to the second sentence of Section 11(d)(i) hereof) for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of exchange pursuant to this Section 24.
Section 25. .
Notice of Certain Events
(a) In case the Company shall propose, at any time after the Distribution Date, (i) to pay any dividend payable in stock of any class to the holders of Preferred Stock or to make any other distribution to the holders of Preferred Stock (other than a regular quarterly cash dividend out of earnings or retained earnings of the Company), (ii) to offer to the holders of Preferred Stock rights or warrants to subscribe for or to purchase any additional shares of Preferred Stock or shares of stock of any class or any other securities, rights or options, (iii) to effect any reclassification of its Preferred Stock (other than a reclassification involving only the subdivision of outstanding shares of Preferred Stock), (iv) to effect any consolidation or merger into or with any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction that complies with Section 11(o) hereof), or to effect any sale or other transfer (or to permit one or more of its Subsidiaries to effect any sale or other transfer), in one transaction or a series of related transactions, of more than 50% of the assets, cash flow or earning power of the Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any other Person or Persons (other than the Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries in one or more transactions each of which complies with Section 11(o) hereof), or (v) to effect the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, then, in each such case, the Company shall give to the Rights Agent and to each holder of a Rights
 
Certificate, to the extent feasible and in accordance with Section 26 hereof, a notice of such proposed action, which shall specify the record date for the purposes of such stock dividend, distribution of rights or warrants, or the date on which such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, liquidation, dissolution, or winding up is to take place and the date of participation therein by the holders of the shares of Preferred Stock, if any such date is to be fixed, and such notice shall be so given in the case of any action covered by clause (i) or (ii) above at least 20 days prior to the record date for determining holders of the shares of Preferred Stock for purposes of such action, and in the case of any such other action, at least 20 days prior to the date of the taking of such proposed action or the date of participation therein by the holders of the shares of Preferred Stock, whichever shall be the earlier.
(b) In case any of the events set forth in Section 11(a)(ii) hereof shall occur, then, in any such case, (i) the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter give to each holder of a Rights Certificate, to the extent feasible and in accordance with Section 26 hereof, and to the Rights Agent in accordance with Section 26 hereof, a notice of the occurrence of such event, which shall specify the event and the consequences of the event to holders of Rights under Section 11(a)(ii) hereof, and (ii) all references in the preceding subsection to Preferred Stock shall be deemed thereafter to refer to Common Stock and/or, if appropriate, other securities.
Section 26. . Notices or demands authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the Rights Agent or by the holder of any Rights Certificate to or on the Company shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed (until another address is delivered in writing to the Rights Agent by the Company) as follows:
Notices
Family Dollar Stores, Inc.
P.O. Box 1017
Charlotte, NC 28201-1017
Attention: James C. Snyder, Jr.
                 General Counsel
Subject to the provisions of Section 21, any notice or demand authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the Company or by the holder of any Rights Certificate to or on the Rights Agent shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed (until another address is delivered in writing by the Rights Agent to the Company) as follows:
American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC
6201 15
th
Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11219
Attention: Admin42
 
With a copy to:
American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC
6201 15
th
Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11219
Attention: General Counsel
Notices or demands authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the Company or the Rights Agent to the holder of any Rights Certificate (or, if prior to the Distribution Date, to the holder of shares of Common Stock) shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such holder at the address of such holder as shown on the registry books of the Company.
Section 27. . Prior to the Stock Acquisition Date, the Company and the Rights Agent shall, if the Company so directs, supplement or amend any provision of this Agreement without the approval of any holders of shares of Common Stock. From and after the Stock Acquisition Date, the Company and the Rights Agent shall, if the Company so directs, supplement or amend this Agreement without the approval of any holders of Rights Certificates in order (i) to cure any ambiguity, (ii) to correct or supplement any provision contained herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provisions herein, or (iii) to change or supplement the provisions hereunder in any manner which the Company may deem necessary or desirable and which shall not adversely affect the interests of the holders of Rights Certificates (other than an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person). Upon the delivery of a certificate from an appropriate officer of the Company and, if requested by the Rights Agent, an opinion of counsel, which states that the proposed supplement or amendment is in compliance with the terms of this Section 27, the Rights Agent shall execute such supplement or amendment. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, the Rights Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any supplement or amendment that affects the Rights Agent's own rights, duties, obligations or immunities under this Agreement. Prior to the Distribution Date, the interests of the holders of Rights shall be deemed coincident with the interests of the holders of Common Stock.
Supplements and Amendments
Section 28. . All the covenants and provisions of this Agreement by or for the benefit of the Company or the Rights Agent shall bind and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns hereunder.
Successors
Section 29. For all purposes of this Agreement, any calculation of the number of shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock outstanding at any particular time, including for purposes of determining the particular percentage of such outstanding shares of Common Stock of which any Person is the Beneficial Owner, shall be made in accordance with the last sentence of Rule 13d-3(d)(1)(i) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act. The Board shall have the exclusive power and authority to administer this Agreement and to exercise all rights and powers specifically granted to the Board or to the Company, or as may be necessary or advisable in the administration of this Agreement, including the right and power to (i) interpret the provisions of this Agreement and (ii) make all determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of this Agreement (including a determination to redeem or not redeem the
Determinations and Actions by the Board of Directors, etc.
 
Rights or to amend the Agreement). All such actions, calculations, interpretations and determinations (including, for purposes of clause (y) below, all omissions with respect to the foregoing) which are done or made by the Board in good faith, shall (x) be final, conclusive and binding on the Company, the Rights Agent, the holders of the Rights and all other parties, and (y) not subject the Board, or any of the directors on the Board to any liability to the holders of the Rights. The Rights Agent is entitled always to assume that the Board acted in good faith and shall be fully protected and incur no liability in reliance thereon.
Section 30. . Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to give to any Person other than the Company, the Rights Agent and the registered holders of the Rights Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, registered holders of the Common Stock) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement; but this Agreement shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Company, the Rights Agent and the registered holders of the Rights Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, registered holders of the Common Stock).
Benefits of this Agreement
Section 31. . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated; , , that notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if any such term, provision, covenant or restriction is held by such court or authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable and the Board determines in its good faith judgment that severing the invalid language from this Agreement would adversely affect the purpose or effect of this Agreement, the right of redemption set forth in Section 23 hereof shall be reinstated and shall not expire until the Close of Business on the 10
Severability
provided
however
th
Business Day following the date of such determination by the Board; and provided further, that if any such excluded term, provision, covenant or restriction shall adversely affect the rights, immunities, duties or obligations of the Rights Agent, the Rights Agent shall be entitled to resign immediately
.
Section 32. . This Agreement, each Right and each Rights Certificate issued hereunder shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State; , , that all provisions, regarding the rights, duties, obligations and liabilities of the Rights Agent shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State
Governing Law
provided
however
.
Section 33. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
Section 34. . Descriptive headings of the several sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." The words "hereof," "herein" and "herewith" and words of similar import
Interpretation
 
shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and article, section, subsection, paragraph and exhibit references are to the articles, sections, paragraphs and exhibits of this Agreement unless otherwise specified. The meaning assigned to each term defined herein shall be equally applicable to both the singular and the plural forms of such term, and words denoting any gender shall include all genders. Where a word or phrase is defined herein, each of its other grammatical forms shall have a corresponding meaning.
Section 35. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Rights Agent shall not be liable for any delays or failures in performance resulting from acts beyond its reasonable control including, without limitation, acts of God, terrorist acts, shortage of supply, breakdowns or malfunctions, interruptions or malfunctions of computer facilities, or loss of data due to power failures or mechanical difficulties with information storage or retrieval systems, labor difficulties, war or civil unrest.
Force Majeure
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed all as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
We, the undersigned, Howard R. Levine, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and James C. Snyder, Jr., Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, of Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the ""), pursuant to the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, do hereby make this Certificate of Designation and do hereby state and certify that pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Directors of the Corporation by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors duly adopted the following resolutions:
Corporation
RESOLVED, that, pursuant to Section FOURTH, B. of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation (which authorizes 500,000 shares of preferred stock, $1.00 par value per share ("") of which none have already been designated), the Board of Directors hereby fixes the designations, powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions, of a series of Preferred Stock;
Preferred Stock
RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors of this Corporation in accordance with the provisions of its Restated Certificate of Incorporation, a series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation be and it hereby is created, and that the designation and amount thereof and the voting powers, preferences and rights of the shares of such series, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof are as follows:
Section 1. . The shares of such series shall be designated as "" and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 200,000.
Designation and Amount
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
Section 2. .
Dividends and Distributions
(a) Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock ranking prior and superior to the shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the 1
st
day
 
of March, June, September and December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a ""), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (i) $0.10 or (ii) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock of the Corporation since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after March 2, 2011 (the "") (A) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (B) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (C) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date
Rights Declaration Date
(b) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2(a) above immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $0.10 per share on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
provided
(c) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be no more than 30 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
 
Section 3. . The holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
(a) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1,000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(b) Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
(c) (i) If at any time dividends on any Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be in arrears in an amount equal to 6 quarterly dividends thereon, the occurrence of such contingency shall mark the beginning of a period (herein called a "") which shall extend until such time when all accrued and unpaid dividends for all previous quarterly dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend period on all shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock then outstanding shall have been declared and paid or set apart for payment. During each default period, all holders of Preferred Stock (including holders of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock) with dividends in arrears in an amount equal to 6 quarterly dividends thereon, voting as a class, irrespective of series, shall have the right to elect 2 directors.
default period
(ii) During any default period, such voting right of the holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock may be exercised initially at a special meeting called pursuant to Section 3(c)(iii) or at any annual meeting of stockholders, and thereafter at annual meetings of stockholders, provided that neither such voting right nor the right of the holders of any other series of Preferred Stock, if any, to increase, in certain cases, the authorized number of directors shall be exercised unless the holders of 10% in number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding shall be present in person or by proxy. The absence of a quorum of the holders of Common Stock shall not affect the exercise by the holders of Preferred Stock of such voting right. At any meeting at which the holders of Preferred Stock shall exercise such voting right initially during an existing default period, they shall have the right, voting as a class, to elect directors to fill such vacancies, if any, in the Board of Directors as may then exist up to 2 directors or, if such right is exercised at an annual meeting, to elect 2 directors. If the number which may be so elected at any special meeting does not amount to the required number, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have the right to make such increase in the number of directors as shall be necessary to permit the election by them of the required number. After the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect directors in any default period and during the continuance of such period, the number of directors shall not be increased
 
or decreased except by vote of the holders of Preferred Stock as herein provided or pursuant to the rights of any equity securities ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
(iii) Unless the holders of Preferred Stock shall, during an existing default period, have previously exercised their right to elect directors, the Board of Directors may order, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than 10% of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding, irrespective of series, may request, the calling of a special meeting of the holders of Preferred Stock, which meeting shall thereupon be called by the President, a Vice-President or the Secretary of the Corporation. Notice of such meeting and of any annual meeting at which holders of Preferred Stock are entitled to vote pursuant to this Section 3(c)(iii) shall be given to each holder of record of Preferred Stock by mailing a copy of such notice to such holder at its last address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation. Such meeting shall be called for a time not earlier than 20 days and not later than 60 days after such order or request or in default of the calling of such meeting within 60 days after such order or request, such meeting may be called on similar notice by any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than 10% of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 3(c)(iii), no such special meeting shall be called during the period within 60 days immediately preceding the date fixed for the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
(iv) In any default period, the holders of Common Stock, and other classes of stock of the Corporation if applicable, shall continue to be entitled to elect the whole number of directors until the holders of Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect 2 directors voting as a class, after the exercise of which right (x) the directors so elected by the holders of Preferred Stock shall continue in office until their successors shall have been elected by such holders or until the expiration of the default period, and (y) any vacancy in the Board of Directors may (except as provided in Section 3(c)(ii)) be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining directors theretofore elected by the holders of the class of stock which elected the director whose office shall have become vacant. References in this Section 3(c) to directors elected by the holders of a particular class of stock shall include directors elected by such directors to fill vacancies as provided in clause (y) of the foregoing sentence.
(v) Immediately upon the expiration of a default period, (x) the right of the holders of Preferred Stock as a class to elect directors shall cease, (y) the term of any directors elected by the holders of Preferred Stock as a class shall terminate, and (z) the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Corporation irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of Section 3(c)(ii) (such number being subject, however, to change thereafter in any manner provided by law or in the certificate of incorporation or by-laws). Any vacancies in the Board of Directors effected by the provisions of clauses (y) and (z) in the preceding sentence may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors.
(d) Except as set forth herein, holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
 
Section 4. .
Certain Restrictions
(a) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not
(i) declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on, or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock;
(ii) declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
(iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such parity stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock; or
(iv) purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
(b) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under Section 4(a), purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
Section 5. . Any shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued
Reacquired Shares
 
as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein.
Section 6. . (a) Upon any liquidation (voluntary or otherwise), dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have received an amount equal to $1.00 per share of Series A Participating Preferred Stock, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment (the ""). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference, no additional distributions shall be made to the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall have received an amount per share (the "") equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Series A Liquidation Preference by (ii) 1,000 (as appropriately adjusted as set forth in Section 6(c) below to reflect such events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to the Common Stock) (such number in clause (ii), the ""). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the Common Adjustment in respect of all outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and Common Stock, respectively, holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and holders of shares of Common Stock shall receive their ratable and proportionate share of the remaining assets to be distributed in the ratio of the Adjustment Number to 1 with respect to such Preferred Stock and Common Stock, on a per share basis, respectively.
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
Series A Liquidation Preference
Common Adjustment
Adjustment Number
(b) In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the liquidation preferences of all other series of preferred stock, if any, which rank on a parity with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of such parity shares in proportion to their respective liquidation preferences. In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Common Adjustment, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of Common Stock.
(c) In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the Adjustment Number in effect immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such Adjustment Number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Section 7. . In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall at the same
Consolidation, Merger, etc
 
time be similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Section 8. . The shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption
Section 9. . The Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any such series shall provide otherwise.
Ranking
Section 10. . At any time when any shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock are outstanding, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended (whether by merger or otherwise) in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority or more of the outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class.
Amendment
Section 11. . Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
Fractional Shares
Section 12. . As used herein with respect to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, the term "" means the common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Corporation at the date hereof or any other class of stock resulting from successive changes or reclassification of the common stock.
Certain Definitions
Common Stock
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have executed and subscribed this Certificate and do affirm the foregoing as true under the penalties of perjury this 2nd day of March, 2011.
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
NOT EXERCISABLE AFTER MARCH 2, 2012 UNLESS EXTENDED PRIOR THERETO BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY, OR EARLIER IF REDEEMED BY THE COMPANY. THE RIGHTS ARE SUBJECT TO REDEMPTION, AT THE OPTION OF THE COMPANY, AT $0.001 PER RIGHT ON THE TERMS SET FORTH IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT. UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES, RIGHTS BENEFICIALLY OWNED BY AN ACQUIRING PERSON (AS SUCH TERMS ARE DEFINED IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT) AND ANY SUBSEQUENT HOLDER OF SUCH RIGHTS MAY BECOME NULL AND VOID. THE RIGHTS REPRESENTED BY THIS RIGHTS CERTIFICATE ARE OR WERE BENEFICIALLY OWNED BY A PERSON WHO WAS OR BECAME AN ACQUIRING PERSON OR AN AFFILIATE OR ASSOCIATE OF AN ACQUIRING PERSON (AS SUCH TERMS ARE DEFINED IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT). ACCORDINGLY, THIS RIGHTS CERTIFICATE AND THE RIGHTS REPRESENTED HEREBY MAY BECOME NULL AND VOID IN THE CIRCUMSTANCES SPECIFIED IN SECTION 7(e) OF SUCH AGREEMENT.
[
]
1
This certifies that , or registered assigns, is the registered owner of the number of Rights set forth above, each of which entitles the owner thereof, subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Rights Agreement, dated as of March 2, 2011 (the ""), by and between Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, a New York limited liability trust company, as Rights Agent (the ""), to purchase from the Company at any time prior to 5:00 P.M. (New York City time) on March 2, 2012 (unless such date is extended prior thereto by the Board of Directors) at the office or offices of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, or its successors as Rights Agent, one one-thousandth of a fully paid, non-assessable share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the "") of the Company, at a purchase price of $250.00 per one one-thousandth of a share (the ""), upon presentation and surrender of this Rights Certificate with the Form of Election to Purchase and related Certificate properly completed and duly executed. The number of Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate (and the number of shares which may be purchased upon exercise thereof) set forth above, and the Purchase Price per share set forth above, are the number and Purchase Price as of March 2, 2011, based on the Preferred Stock as constituted at such date.
                                        
Rights Agreement
Company
Rights Agent
Preferred Stock
Purchase Price
 
 
Upon the occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event (as such term is defined in the Rights Agreement), if the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate are beneficially owned by (i) an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of any such Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement), (ii) a transferee of any such Acquiring Person, Associate or Affiliate, or (iii) under certain circumstances specified in the Rights Agreement, a transferee of a Person (as such term is defined in the Rights Agreement) who, after such transfer, became an Acquiring Person, or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person, such Rights shall become null and void and no holder hereof shall have any right with respect to such Rights from and after the occurrence of such Section 11(a)(ii) Event.
As provided in the Rights Agreement, the Purchase Price and the number and kind of shares of Preferred Stock or other securities which may be purchased upon the exercise of the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate are subject to modification and adjustment upon the happening of certain events, including Triggering Events.
This Rights Certificate is subject to all of the terms, provisions and conditions of the Rights Agreement, which terms, provisions and conditions are hereby incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof and to which Rights Agreement reference is hereby made for a full description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities hereunder of the Rights Agent, the Company and the holders of the Rights Certificates, which limitations of rights include the temporary suspension of the exercisability of such Rights under the specific circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement. Copies of the Rights Agreement are on file at the office of the Company and are also available upon written request to the Company.
This Rights Certificate, with or without other Rights Certificates, upon surrender at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, may be exchanged for another Rights Certificate or Rights Certificates of like tenor and date evidencing Rights entitling the holder to purchase a like aggregate number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock as the Rights evidenced by the Rights Certificate or Rights Certificates surrendered shall have entitled such holder to purchase. If this Rights Certificate shall be exercised in part, the holder shall be entitled to receive upon surrender hereof another Rights Certificate or Rights Certificates for the number of whole Rights not exercised.
Subject to the provisions of the Rights Agreement, the Rights evidenced by this Certificate may be redeemed by the Company at its option at a redemption price of $0.001 per Right at any time prior to the earlier of (i) the Stock Acquisition Date, and (ii) the Final Expiration Date (as each such term is defined in the Rights Agreement). In addition, under certain circumstances following the Stock Acquisition Date, the Rights may be exchanged, in whole or in part, for shares of the Common Stock, or shares of preferred stock of the Company having essentially the same value or economic rights as such shares. Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of the Company authorizing any such exchange, and without any further action or any notice, the Rights (other than Rights which are not subject to such exchange) will terminate and the Rights will only enable holders to receive the shares issuable upon such exchange.
The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of shares of Preferred Stock (other than fractions that are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred
 
Stock) upon exercise of the Rights, to authorize book-entries which evidence fractional shares of Preferred Stock (other than fractions that are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock) or to distribute certificates which evidence fractional shares of Preferred Stock (other than fractions that are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock). In lieu of fractional shares of Preferred Stock that are not integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock, the Company may pay to the registered holder of this Rights Certificate at the time such Rights are exercised as herein provided an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock. The Company reserves the right to require prior to the occurrence of a Triggering Event (as such term is defined in the Rights Agreement) that a number of Rights be exercised so that only whole shares of Preferred Stock will be issued.
No holder of this Rights Certificate shall be entitled to vote or receive dividends or be deemed for any purpose the holder of shares of Preferred Stock or of any other securities of the Company which may at any time be issuable on the exercise hereof, nor shall anything contained in the Rights Agreement or herein be construed to confer upon the holder hereof, as such, any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company or any right to vote for the election of directors or upon any matter submitted to stockholders at any meeting thereof, or to give consent to or withhold consent from any corporate action, or, to receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting stockholders (except as provided in the Rights Agreement), or to receive dividends or subscription rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate shall have been exercised as provided in the Rights Agreement.
This Rights Certificate shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until it shall have been countersigned by the Rights Agent.
 
WITNESS the facsimile signature of the proper officers of the Company and its corporate seal.
Dated as of ,
                    
        
 
 
 
 
 
this Rights Certificate, together with all right, title and interest therein, and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint Attorney, to transfer the within Rights Certificate on the books of the within named Company, with full power of substitution.
                                        
Dated:,
                    
        
 
Signature Guaranteed:
Signatures must be guaranteed by a participant in the Securities Transfer Agent Medallion Program, the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program or the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program.
 
Certificate
The undersigned hereby certifies by checking the appropriate boxes that:
(1) this Rights Certificate is is not being sold, assigned and transferred by or on behalf of a Person who is or was an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of any such Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined pursuant to the Rights Agreement);
[    ]
[    ]
(2) after due inquiry and to the best knowledge of the undersigned, it did  did not acquire the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate from any Person who is, was or subsequently became an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person.
[    ]
[    ]
Dated: ,
                    
        
 
Signature Guaranteed:
Signatures must be guaranteed by a participant in the Securities Transfer Agent Medallion Program, the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program or the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program.
The signature to the foregoing Assignment and Certificate must correspond to the name as written upon the face of this Rights Certificate in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.
 
To: FAMILY DOLLAR STORES, INC.:
The undersigned hereby irrevocably elects to exercise Rights represented by this Rights Certificate to purchase the shares of Preferred Stock issuable upon the exercise of the Rights (or such other securities of the Company or of any other Person which may be issuable upon the exercise of the Rights) and requests that certificates for such shares be issued in the name of and delivered to (or entries for such shares be made in the book-entry account system of the transfer agent in the name of and with written confirmation to):
                                        
Please insert social security
or other identifying number
 
 
 
 
 
 
If such number of Rights shall not be all the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate, a new Rights Certificate for the balance of such Rights shall be registered in the name of and delivered to:
Please insert social security
or other identifying number
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated: ,
                    
        
 
Signature Guaranteed:
Signatures must be guaranteed by a participant in the Securities Transfer Agent Medallion Program, the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program or the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program.
 
The undersigned hereby certifies by checking the appropriate boxes that:
(1) the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate are are not being exercised by or on behalf of a Person who is or was an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of any such Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined pursuant to the Rights Agreement);
[ ]
[ ]
(2) after due inquiry and to the best knowledge of the undersigned, it did  did not acquire the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate from any Person who is, was or became an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person.
[ ]
[ ]
Dated: ,
                    
        
 
Signature Guaranteed:
Signatures must be guaranteed by a participant in the Securities Transfer Agent Medallion Program, the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program or the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program.
The signature to the foregoing Election to Purchase and Certificate must correspond to the name as written upon the face of this Rights Certificate in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.
 
EXHIBIT C
On March 2, 2011 (the ""), the Board of Directors of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "") authorized and declared a dividend distribution of one right (a "") for each outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company (the "") to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 2, 2011 (the ""). Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company a unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a share (a "") of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "") at a Purchase Price of $250.00 per Unit, subject to adjustment. The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in a Rights Agreement (the ""), dated as of March 2, 2011, between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, a New York limited liability trust company, as Rights Agent. The Series A Preferred Stock is established pursuant to a Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights (the ""), which is being filed by the Company with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.
Rights Dividend Declaration Date
Company
Right
Common Stock
Record Date
Unit
Series A Preferred Stock
Rights Agreement
Certificate of Designation
Initially, the Rights will be attached to all shares of Common Stock then outstanding, and no separate Rights Certificates will be distributed. Subject to certain exceptions specified in the Rights Agreement, the Rights will separate from the Common Stock and a Distribution Date will occur upon the earlier of (i) 10 business days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons (an "") has acquired beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (the ""), other than as a result of repurchases of stock by the Company or acquisitions by certain Exempt Persons (as defined below) or (ii) 10 business days (or such later date as the Board shall determine) following the commencement of a tender offer or exchange offer that would result in a person or group becoming an Acquiring Person. An "" means each person that beneficially owns on the Rights Dividend Declaration Date a number of shares of Common Stock representing more than 10% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, except that each such person will be considered an Exempt Person only if and so long as the shares of Common Stock that are beneficially owned by such person do not exceed the number of shares which are beneficially owned by such person on the Rights Dividend Declaration Date, plus any additional shares of Common Stock representing not more than 1% of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding, and except that a person will cease to be an Exempt Person immediately at such time as such person ceases to be the beneficial owner of more than 10% of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding.
Acquiring Person
Stock Acquisition Date
Exempt Person
Until the Distribution Date, (i) the Rights will be evidenced by the balances in the book-entry account system of the transfer agent for the Common Stock registered in the names of the holders of the Common Stock, (ii) any confirmation or written notices sent to holders of Common Stock in book-entry form and any new Common Stock certificates issued after the Record Date will contain a notation incorporating the Rights Agreement by reference, and (iii) the transfer of Common Stock outstanding will also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with such shares of Common Stock. Pursuant to the Rights Agreement, the Company
 
reserves the right to require prior to the occurrence of a Triggering Event (as defined below) that, upon any exercise of Rights, a number of Rights be exercised so that only whole shares of Preferred Stock will be issued.
The Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date and will expire at 5:00 P.M. (New York City time) on March 2, 2012 (the ""), unless the Rights Agreement is earlier terminated or such date is extended or the Rights are earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company as described below.
Final Expiration Date
As soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, Rights Certificates will be mailed to holders of record of the Common Stock as of the close of business on the Distribution Date and, thereafter, the separate Rights Certificates alone will represent the Rights.
In the event that a person becomes an Acquiring Person, each holder of a Right will thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise, Common Stock (or, in certain circumstances, cash, property or other securities of the Company) having a value (as determined pursuant to the Rights Agreement) equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, following the occurrence of the event described in this paragraph, all Rights that are, or (under certain circumstances specified in the Rights Agreement) were, beneficially owned by any Acquiring Person will be null and void.
In the event that a person becomes an Acquiring Person and (i) the Company engages in a merger or other business combination transaction in which the Company is not the surviving corporation, (ii) the Company engages in a merger or other business combination transaction in which the Company is the surviving corporation and the Common Stock of the Company is changed or exchanged, or (iii) 50% or more of the Company's assets, cash flow or earning power is sold or transferred, each holder of a Right (except Rights which have previously been voided as set forth above) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. The events set forth in this paragraph and in the preceding paragraph are referred to as the "."
Triggering Events
At any time after a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person and prior to the acquisition by such person or group of 50% or more of the outstanding Common Stock, the Board may exchange the Rights (other than Rights owned by such person or group which have become null and void), in whole or in part, for Common Stock at an exchange ratio of one share of Common Stock per Right (subject to adjustment). If an insufficient number of shares of Common Stock are available for such exchange despite the Company's good faith efforts to authorize additional shares of Common Stock, the Company will substitute a number of shares of Preferred Stock or a fraction thereof for each share of Common Stock that would otherwise be issuable.
The Purchase Price payable, and the number of Units of Preferred Stock or other securities or property issuable, upon exercise of the Rights are subject to adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution (i) in the event of a stock dividend on, or a subdivision, combination or reclassification of, the Preferred Stock, (ii) if holders of the Preferred Stock are granted certain rights or warrants to subscribe for Preferred Stock or convertible securities at less than the
 
current market price of the Preferred Stock, or (iii) upon the distribution to holders of the Preferred Stock of evidences of indebtedness or assets (excluding regular quarterly cash dividends) or of subscription rights or warrants (other than those referred to above).
With certain exceptions, no adjustment in the Purchase Price will be required until cumulative adjustments amount to at least 1% of the Purchase Price. No fractional Units will be issued and, in lieu thereof, an adjustment in cash will be made based on the market price of the Preferred Stock on the last trading date prior to the date of exercise.
At any time prior to the Stock Acquisition Date, the Company may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.001 per Right (payable in cash, Common Stock or other consideration deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors) or amend the Rights Agreement to change the Final Expiration Date to another date, including without limitation an earlier date. Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors ordering redemption of the Rights, the Rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive the $0.001 redemption price.
Until a Right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no separate rights as a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends in respect of the Rights. While the distribution of the Rights will not be taxable to stockholders or to the Company, stockholders may, depending upon the circumstances, recognize taxable income in the event that the Rights become exercisable for Common Stock (or other consideration) of the Company or for common stock of the acquiring company or in the event of the redemption of the Rights as set forth above.
Any of the provisions of the Rights Agreement may be amended by the Board of Directors of the Company prior to the Stock Acquisition Date. After the Stock Acquisition Date, the provisions of the Rights Agreement may only be amended by the Board in order to cure any ambiguity, to correct any defect or inconsistency or to make changes which do not adversely affect the interests of holders of Rights.
Copies of the form of Certificate of Designation and the Rights Agreement have been or will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an Exhibit to a Registration Statement on Form 8-A of the Company and as an Exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K. A copy of the Rights Agreement is available free of charge from the Company. This description of the Rights Agreement and the Rights does not purport to be complete and is qualified by reference to the Rights Agreement.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
INVESTOR CONTACT:
Kiley F. Rawlins, CFA
(704) 849-7496
krawlins@familydollar.com
MEDIA CONTACT:
Josh Braverman
(704) 814-3447
jbraverman@familydollar.com
Matt Sherman / Jamie Moser
Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher
(212) 355-4449
For Immediate Release
 
MATTHEWS, N.C.  March 3, 2011  Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the "Company" or "Family Dollar") (NYSE: FDO) today announced that its Board of Directors, by a unanimous vote of those present, determined that continued implementation of the Company's strategic plan remains the best way to deliver value to all Family Dollar shareholders. The Board also determined that the unsolicited, conditional proposal from Trian Group to acquire Family Dollar substantially undervalues the Company and that pursuit of a sale of the Company is not in the best interest of shareholders.
"In September 2010, we shared with investors our strategic plan to accelerate revenue growth, expand operating margins and optimize our capital structure," said Howard Levine, Chairman and CEO. "The results from this fiscal year are a positive reflection of this plan. We have accelerated new store openings, launched an ambitious, multi-year store renovation program, and invested to improve our operational capabilities. In addition, our Board increased the quarterly dividend by 16% to $0.18 per share and approved a $750 million share repurchase program. As of March 2, 2011, the Company had repurchased $400 million of common stock."
"Family Dollar is executing effectively on its business plan and has a proven record of delivering superior results for shareholders. We continue to believe that our efforts to serve our customers better while improving our operational capabilities and returning excess capital to shareholders will deliver strong financial returns in fiscal 2011 and beyond," concluded Levine.
The Company also announced that its Board has adopted a shareholder rights plan, details of which will be contained in a Form 8-K to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The rights plan, which has a term of 12 months and a 10% beneficial ownership threshold, is intended to enable all of the Company's shareholders to realize the long-term value of their investment in the Company, and reduce the likelihood that any person or group would gain control of the Company by open market accumulation or otherwise without paying a control premium for all shares.
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated is acting as financial advisor to Family Dollar and Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP is acting as legal counsel.
About Family Dollar
Beginning with one store in 1959 in Charlotte, North Carolina, the Company currently operates more than 6,800 stores in 44 states. Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, is based in Matthews, North Carolina, just outside of Charlotte and is a publicly held company with common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol FDO. For more information, please visit www.familydollar.com.
Cautionary Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements address certain plans, activities or events which the Company expects will or may occur in the future and relate to, among other things, the state of the economy, the Company's investment and financing plans, net sales, comparable store sales, cost of sales, SG&A expenses, earnings per diluted share, dividends and share repurchases. Various risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made by the Company in this and in other documents or statements are qualified by factors, risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those set forth under the headings titled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission up to the date of this release.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company does not undertake to update or revise these forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that projected results expressed or implied in such statements will not be realized, except as may be required by law.


