FILE:FDO/FDO-8K-20120224163634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in Item 3.03 below regarding the Amendment (as defined below) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
On February 24, 2012, the Board of Directors (the "") of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (the ""), approved, and the Company entered into, an amendment (the "") to the Rights Agreement, dated as of March 2, 2011 (the ""), between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as Rights Agent, to extend the expiration date of the rights contained therein to March 2, 2013. The Rights Agreement otherwise remains unmodified.
Board
Company
Amendment
Rights Agreement
The Rights Agreement is designed to assure that all of the Company's shareholders receive fair and equal treatment in connection with any initiative to acquire control of the Company; to guard the interests of stockholders against partial or two-tiered tender offers, inadequate offers, open market accumulations and other abusive or coercive takeover tactics; and to protect the ability of the Company to implement its strategic plan in view of threats thereto, including inadequate proposals or other efforts to cause a change of control of the Company or impede the implementation of such plan, which the Board has determined, after a review conducted with the support of its financial and legal advisors, is in the best interests of the Company. The Rights (as defined in the Rights Agreement) will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that becomes an Acquiring Person (as defined in the Rights Agreement) on terms not approved by the Board. The Rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by the Board at any time prior to the first date that a person or group has become an Acquiring Person.
A copy of the Rights Agreement and a summary of its material terms were filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a Form 8-K on March 3, 2011. The foregoing description of the Amendment and the Rights Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, which is Exhibit 4.2 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein, and the Rights Agreement, which is Exhibit 4.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
Amendment No. 1 (this ""), dated as of February 24, 2012, to the Rights Agreement, dated as of March 2, 2011 (the ""), between Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, a New York limited liability trust company, as Rights Agent (the "").
Amendment
Rights Agreement
Company
Rights Agent
WHEREAS, on February 24, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") determined it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to amend the Rights Agreement on the terms set forth herein;
Board
WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, the Company and the Rights Agent may from time to time supplement or amend the Rights Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Company and the Rights Agent agree as follows:
1. Section 7(a)(i) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
(i) 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on March 2, 2013, or such earlier or later date as may be established by the Board prior to the expiration of the Rights (such date, as it may be extended by the Board, the ""), and
Final Expiration Date
2. All references to "March 2, 2012" in Exhibits B and C to the Rights Agreement shall be deemed to have been modified to be references to "March 2, 2013".
3. Except as otherwise set forth herein, all provisions in the Rights Agreement remain in full force and effect.
4. Sections 30, 31, 33 and 34 of the Rights Agreement are incorporated into this Amendment .
mutatis mutandis
5. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State; , , that all provisions, regarding the rights, duties, obligations and liabilities of the Rights Agent shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State
provided
however
.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed all as of the date first written above.
 
 


