FILE:ESV/ESV-8K-20091215215810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
Item 8.01
Other Events.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
 
     ENSCO International Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K to disclose a revision to the form of articles of association (the "New Articles") that will govern ENSCO International Limited (which will become a public limited company and renamed "Ensco International plc" or a similar name), a subsidiary of the Company ("Ensco UK"), after the effective time of the proposed merger (the "merger") between ENSCO Newcastle LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and the Company, as more fully described in the Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A of the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and mailed to the stockholders of the Company on November 20, 2009 (the "Proxy Statement"). As previously disclosed in the Proxy Statement in "Description of Class A Ordinary Shares of Ensco UK  Anti-Takeover Provisions," after the merger, the Board of Directors of Ensco UK (the "Board") will have the necessary corporate authority, without further action of Ensco UK's shareholders for a period of five years, but subject to its statutory and fiduciary duties, to give effect to a shareholder rights plan and to fix the terms thereof. The form of the New Articles is being revised to clarify and give effect to such authority of the Board by adding new Sections 6.3 through 6.7, which, among other things, identify purposes for which the Board may approve the adoption of a shareholder rights plan and exercise powers with respect thereto. Additional technical revisions have been made to Sections 46.1, 81.1 and 81.5 of the New Articles.
     The foregoing description of the New Articles does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the New Articles, which are filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated into this report by reference.
     If a stockholder of the Company has returned a proxy card or voting instruction card or otherwise voted for purposes of the Special Meeting of Stockholders of the Company scheduled to be held on December 22, 2009, such stockholder may revoke prior voting instructions and cast a new vote by following the procedures described in the Proxy Statement.
Where You Can Find Additional Information.
     Ensco UK has filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that includes a proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials in connection with the proposed corporate restructuring. The proxy statement/prospectus was mailed to the stockholders of the Company on November 20, 2009. The registration statement, proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials and any other documents filed by the Company or Ensco UK with the SEC may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's website at or on the Company's website at . Investors can also receive free copies of these documents by contacting the Company at, 500 North Akard Street, Suite 4300, Dallas, Texas 75201-3331, Attn: Investor Relations Department.
Investors and security holders of the Company are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus and the other relevant materials because they contain important information about the Company, Ensco UK and the restructuring plan.
www.sec.gov
www.enscointernational.com
 
Pursuant to the requirement of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 15, 2009
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
COMPANY NO. 7023598
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX
     Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and every other enactment from time to time in force concerning companies (including any orders, regulations or other subordinate legislation made under the Companies Act 2006 or any such other enactment), so far as they apply to or affect Ensco International plc (the "Company"), the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") may exercise any power of the Company to establish a shareholders rights plan (the "Rights Plan"). The Rights Plan may be in such form as the Board shall in its absolute discretion decide and may in particular (but without restriction or limitation) include such terms as are described in this Summary of Example Terms.
     Pursuant the Rights Plan, the Board would declare and issue one American Depositary Share Purchase Right (a "Right") for each outstanding Class A Ordinary Share, nominal value $0.10 per share, of the Company (the "Ordinary Shares"). Each Right would entitle the registered holder, upon payment to the Company of the price per ADS specified in the Rights Plan, to have delivered to such holder from a third party, acting as the depositary for the American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") representing Ordinary Shares, one ADS, subject to adjustment.
     Until the earlier to occur of (i) 10 days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons (a "group") has acquired beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the outstanding Ordinary Shares and ADSs (without duplication) (such person or group, an "Acquiring Person") or (ii) 10 business days (or such later date as may be determined by action of the Board prior to such time as any person or group were to become an Acquiring Person) following the commencement of, or announcement of an intention to make, a takeover offer by a person or group the consummation of which would result in the beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the outstanding Ordinary Shares and ADSs (without duplication) being acquired by that person or group (the earlier of such dates being called the "Distribution Date"), each Right would be associated with an individual ADS or Ordinary Share, as applicable, and the Rights would be transferred with and only with the Ordinary Shares or ADSs, as applicable.
     After the Distribution Date, separate certificates evidencing the Rights ("Right Certificates") would be mailed to (or credited to the account of) holders of record of the Ordinary Shares and ADSs (without duplication) as of the close of business on the Distribution Date. Such separate Right Certificates alone would then evidence the Rights, and the Rights would then be separately transferable.
     The Rights would not be exercisable until the Distribution Date. The Rights would expire on a date to be specified in the Rights Plan, unless the Rights were earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company.
     After the Distribution Date, each holder of a Right, other than Rights held by or on behalf of any Acquiring Person (which would thereupon become void), would thereafter have the right to receive upon exercise of a Right that number of ADSs having a market value of two times the exercise price for the Right.
     In the event that, after a person or group were to become an Acquiring Person, the Company were to be acquired by a third party, proper provisions would be made so that each holder of a Right
 
(other than Rights held by or on behalf of an Acquiring Person which would have become void) would thereafter have the right to receive upon the exercise of a Right that number of shares of such third party (or its parent) that at the time of such acquisition would have a market value of two times the exercise price of the Right.
     At any time after any person or group were to become an Acquiring Person and prior to the earlier of one of the events described in the previous paragraph or the acquisition by such Acquiring Person of 50% or more of the outstanding Ordinary Shares and ADSs (without duplication), the Board would have the authority to exchange or cause to be exchanged the Rights (other than Rights held by or on behalf of such Acquiring Person, which would have become void), in whole or in part, for ADSs at an exchange ratio of one ADS per Right, subject to the receipt of any consideration required by applicable law to be received by the Company in respect of the same.
     At any time before any person or group were to become an Acquiring Person, the Board would have the authority to redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a price per Right to be specified in the Rights Plan (the "Redemption Price").
     Prior to the Distribution Date, the Board would have the authority, except with respect to the Redemption Price, to amend the Rights Plan in any manner, subject to applicable law and any restrictions set forth in the Articles of Association of the Company. After the Distribution Date, the Board would have the authority, except with respect to the Redemption Price, to amend the Rights Plan in any manner that would not adversely affect the interests of holders of the Rights (other than Rights held by or on behalf of any Acquiring Person, which would have become void).
     Prior to the exercise of a Right, a Right would not entitle the holder thereof to any rights as an ADS holder or shareholder of the Company, including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends in respect of such Right.


