FILE:ESV/ESV-8K-20110722172805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is a Fleet Status Report of Ensco plc as of 22 July 2011.
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Monthly Changes
Bolded rig names and underlined text signify changes in rig status from previous report.
 
 
Monthly Changes
Bolded rig names and underlined text signify changes in rig status from previous report.
 
 
Ensco excludes non-recurring reimbursable items related to mobilizations and capital enhancements from its day rate definition regardless of how these amounts are invoiced or paid.
Separately, under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with U.S. GAAP, revenues recognized for the ENSCO DS-3 and ENSCO DS-4 contracts subsequent to the acquisition will not include reimbursements received for mobilizations, capital upgrades or other services performed by Pride prior to the acquisition. Therefore, the reported day rate for ENSCO DS-3 was reduced from low 540s to high 480's and the reported day rate for ENSCO DS-4 was reduced from high 590s to mid 540s to exclude these items.
Importantly, the amount of expected cash flows for these contracts remain unchanged.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Definitions and Disclaimers
The day rates reflected in this Fleet Status Report are the operating day rates charged to customers, which may include estimated contractual adjustments for changes in operating costs and/or reimbursable cost adjustments for ongoing expenses such as crew, catering, insurance and taxes. The day rates, however, do not include certain types of non-recurring revenues such as lump sum mobilization payments, revenues earned during mobilizations, revenues associated with contract preparation and other non-recurring reimbursable items such as mobilizations and capital enhancements, and the impact of the fair market value adjustments to Pride's drilling contracts in place on the 31 May 2011 acquisition date. Routine and non-routine downtime may reduce the actual revenues recognized during the contract term. Additionally, the Company occasionally negotiates special rates with customers as noted in the comments that reduce revenues recognized during the contract term.
Day Rate Definition.
Upon completion of the merger with Pride International, Inc., we intend to rename Pride's fleet in accordance with our naming convention. We are in the process of completing these name changes, some of which may not be completed for some time. For purposes of our Fleet Status Report, we are using the new names even when the name change has not been completed. Below is a legend showing the name changes.
Rig Names.
 
The statements contained in this Fleet Status Report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements involving future rig rates, cost adjustments, utilization, our estimated rig availability, contract duration, customers or contract status, rig enhancement projections, shipyard construction or work completion, and other contract commitments, including new rig commitments, contract terms, the period of time and number of rigs that will be in a shipyard for repairs, maintenance, enhancement or construction and scheduled delivery dates for new rigs. Such statements are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including but not limited to, uncertainties relating to the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration and development, exploration success by producers, oil and gas prices, competition and market conditions in the contract drilling industry, shipyard delays and related risks, actions and approvals of third parties (including delays in our customers' ability to obtain drilling permits in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere), possible cancellation or suspension of drilling contracts as a result of mechanical difficulties or performance or other reasons, our ability to enter into and the terms of future contracts, the availability of qualified personnel, labor relations and unionization efforts, operating hazards, changes in the commencement dates of new contracts, the actual amount of downtime (including downtime incurred by reason of enhanced blow-out preventer certification and testing requirements), factors resulting in reduced applicable dayrates, hurricanes and other weather conditions, terrorism, political and other uncertainties inherent in global operations (including the risk of war, civil disturbance, seizure or damage of equipment and exchange and currency fluctuations), the impact of governmental laws and regulations, the adequacy of sources of liquidity, the effect of litigation and contingencies and other factors described above and discussed in our most recently filed Form 10-K, in our Forms 10-Q for subsequent periods and in our other filings with the SEC, which are available free of charge on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov or by contacting our Investor Relations Department at 713-917-2244 or by referring to the Investor Relations section of our website at www.enscoplc.com. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, except as required by law.
Forward Looking Statement.
Certain Ensco rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico have been and may be further affected by the regulatory developments and other actions that have or may be imposed by the U.S. Department of the Interior. Ensco rig utilization and day rates have been negatively influenced due to regulatory requirements and delays in our customers' ability to secure drilling and associated permits. Current or future NTLs or other directives, legislation or regulations may further impact our customers' ability to obtain permits and commence or continue deep- or shallow-water operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. We continue to work with our customers on mutually agreeable contingency plans for our deepwater rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In certain cases, we have negotiated reduced day rates with existing customers and/or sublet agreements with other customers in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or elsewhere.
U.S. Gulf of Mexico.
Ensco has rejected all force majeure notices received since the Macondo well incident as invalid under the terms of the applicable drilling contracts. During mid-December 2010, Ensco received a force majeure notice from Nexen regarding ENSCO 8501. Following delivery of the force majeure notice, Nexen only paid the $280,000 force majeure rate (75% of the mid-$370,000 invoiced applicable day rate at the time) under recent invoices. Ensco, in turn, notified Nexen that it is in default, which Nexen has denied. Ensco has commenced litigation to resolve the dispute.
The full impact of the government's actions and the regulations discussed in this note and potential new regulatory, legislative or permitting requirements has not yet been determined, but could have a further material adverse effect upon our results of operations.
 


