FILE:ESV/ESV-8K-20110502170155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INFORMN
ATIO
TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
  
  
  
Item 2.03  Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
SIGNATURE
 
 
 
 
 
INFORMATION
 TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
 
 
 
 On 26 April 2011, Ensco plc (the Company), entered into a commercial paper program (the Commercial Paper Program) pursuant to which the Company may issue, on a private placement basis, unsecured commercial paper notes (the Notes) up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $700.0 million. Under the Commercial Paper Program, the Company may issue the Notes from time to time, and the proceeds of such financings will be used for capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. Amounts available under the Commercial Paper Program may be reborrowed.  The Notes will bear interest at rates that will vary based on market conditions and the ratings assigned to the Notes by credit rating agencies at the time of issuance.
   
 The Notes will be sold pursuant to the terms and conditions of commercial paper dealer agreements (each, a Dealer Agreement and collectively, the Dealer Agreements) each between the Company and the dealers named therein (collectively, the Dealers).  The Dealer Agreements provide the terms under which the Dealers will either purchase from the Company or arrange for the sale by the Company of the Notes pursuant to an exemption from federal and state securities laws. The Dealer Agreements contain customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnification provisions. The maturities of the Notes will vary, but may not exceed 364 days from the date of issue. The Notes are not redeemable or subject to voluntary prepayment by the Company prior to maturity.
   
 
 
 The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
   
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


