FILE:ESV/ESV-8K-20110819173035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
 
The Fleet Status Report of Ensco plc as of 19 August 2011 is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The information furnished in Item 7.01 and in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any of the Company's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Monthly Changes
Bolded rig names and underlined text signify changes in rig status from previous report.
 
 
 
Monthly Changes
Bolded rig names and underlined text signify changes in rig status from previous report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Definitions and Disclaimers
The day rates reflected in this Fleet Status Report are the operating day rates charged to customers, which may include estimated contractual adjustments for changes in operating costs and/or reimbursable cost adjustments for ongoing expenses such as crew, catering, insurance and taxes. The day rates, however, do not include certain types of non-recurring revenues such as lump sum mobilization payments, revenues earned during mobilizations, revenues associated with contract preparation and other non-recurring reimbursable items such as mobilizations and capital enhancements, and the impact of the fair market value adjustments to Pride's drilling contracts in place on the 31 May 2011 acquisition date. Routine and non-routine downtime may reduce the actual revenues recognized during the contract term. Additionally, the Company occasionally negotiates special rates with customers as noted in the comments that reduce revenues recognized during the contract term.
Day Rate Definition.
Upon completion of the merger with Pride International, Inc., we intend to rename Pride's fleet in accordance with our naming convention. We are in the process of completing these name changes, some of which may not be completed for some time. For purposes of our Fleet Status Report, we are using the new names even when the name change has not been completed. Below is a legend showing the name changes.
Rig Names.
Legend of Ensco rig names to Pride International rig names
 
Statements contained in this Fleet Status Report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include words or phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "could," "may," "might," "should," "will" and similar words and specifically include statements involving future rig dayrates; cost adjustments; utilization; estimated rig availability; contract duration, status, terms and other contract commitments; customers; rig enhancement projects; new rig commitments; the expected period of time and number of rigs that will be in a shipyard for repairs, maintenance, enhancement or construction; and scheduled delivery dates for new rigs. Such statements are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to vary materially from those indicated, including the continued impact of the Macondo well incident; governmental regulatory, legislative and permitting requirements affecting drilling operations; changes in worldwide rig supply and demand, competition and technology; future levels of offshore drilling activity; downtime and other risks associated with offshore rig operations, relocations, severe weather or hurricanes; possible cancellation or suspension of drilling contracts as a result of mechanical difficulties, performance or other reasons; risks inherent to shipyard rig construction, repair, maintenance or enhancement; actual contract commencement dates; environmental or other liabilities, risks or losses; our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel on commercially reasonable terms; governmental action, civil unrest and political and economic uncertainties; terrorism, piracy and military action; and the outcome of litigation, legal proceedings, investigations or other claims or contract disputes. In addition to the numerous factors described above, you should also carefully read and consider "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in Part I and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, as updated in our subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, which are available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov or on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.enscoplc.com. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, except as required by law.
Forward Looking Statement.
Certain Ensco rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico have been and may be further affected by the regulatory developments and other actions that have or may be imposed by the U.S. Department of the Interior. Ensco rig utilization and day rates have been negatively influenced due to regulatory requirements and delays in our customers' ability to secure drilling and associated permits. Current or future NTLs or other directives, legislation or regulations may further impact our customers' ability to obtain permits and commence or continue deep- or shallow-water operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. We continue to work with our customers on mutually agreeable contingency plans for our deepwater rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In certain cases, we have negotiated reduced day rates with existing customers and/or sublet agreements with other customers in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or elsewhere.
U.S. Gulf of Mexico.
Ensco has rejected all force majeure notices received since the Macondo well incident as invalid under the terms of the applicable drilling contracts. During mid-December 2010, Ensco received a force majeure notice from Nexen regarding ENSCO 8501. Following delivery of the force majeure notice, Nexen only paid the $280,000 force majeure rate (75% of the mid-$370,000 invoiced applicable day rate at the time) under recent invoices. Ensco, in turn, notified Nexen that it is in default, which Nexen has denied. Ensco has commenced litigation to resolve the dispute.
The full impact of the government's actions and the regulations discussed in this note and potential new regulatory, legislative or permitting requirements has not yet been determined, but could have a further material adverse effect upon our results of operations.
 


