FILE:ESV/ESV-8K-20120627184553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
(b) Retirement of Principal Operating Officer
On June 27, 2012, Ensco plc announced that William S. Chadwick, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, will retire effective as of August 31, 2012.
(c) Appointment of Principal Operating Officer
In connection with Mr. Chadwick's retirement, the Company also announced that J. Mark Burns, currently Senior Vice President  Western Hemisphere, will succeed Mr. Chadwick as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer effective September 1, 2012.
Mr. Burns, age 55, joined Ensco in June 2008 as President of ENSCO Offshore International Company, a subsidiary of Ensco. In December 2009, Mr. Burns was appointed as Senior Vice President of the Company, and he was elected to his current position of Senior Vice PresidentWestern Hemisphere in May 2011. Prior to joining Ensco, Mr. Burns served in various international capacities with Noble Corporation. In 2007, Mr. Burns was named IADC Drilling Contractor of the Year. He holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Business and Political Science from Sam Houston State University.
In connection with his promotion, Mr. Burns' base salary will be increased to $550,000, and his target annual incentive award percentage will be increased to 80%. He also will receive a restricted share award with a grant-date fair value of $340,000 and a performance unit award with a target value of $340,000. The Company will relocate Mr. Burns to London in connection with his promotion, and he will receive the overseas allowances provided to our expatriate officers in London, as further described in our proxy statement for our 2012 annual general meeting of shareholders, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 4, 2012, under "Compensation Discussion and Analysis-Overseas Allowances and Reimbursements."
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


