FILE:ESV/ESV-8K-20120517172527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED
STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
The Fleet Status Report of Ensco plc as of 17 May 2012 is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The information furnished in Item 7.01 and in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any of the Companys filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
Exhibit
 
3
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
4
 
 
 
5

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monthly Changes
 
Bolded rig names and underlined text signify changes in rig status from previous report.
 
 
 
Page 1 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
 For rigs that may be modified to drill in deeper water depths, both the currently outfitted and maximum upgrade capabilities are shown.
(1)
 
 
 
 
 For rigs that may be modified to drill in deeper water depths, both the currently outfitted and maximum upgrade capabilities are shown.
(1)
 
 
Page 3 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Definitions and Disclaimers
 
The day rates reflected in this Fleet Status Report are the operating day rates charged to customers, which may include estimated contractual adjustments for changes in operating costs and/or reimbursable cost adjustments for ongoing expenses such as crew, catering, insurance and taxes. The day rates, however, do not include certain types of non-recurring revenues such as lump sum mobilization payments, revenues earned during mobilizations, revenues associated with contract preparation and other non-recurring reimbursable items such as mobilizations and capital enhancements, and the impact of the fair market value adjustments to Prides drilling contracts in place on the 31 May 2011 acquisition date.  Routine and non-routine downtime may reduce the actual revenues recognized during the contract term.  Additionally, the Company occasionally negotiates special rates with customers as noted in the comments that reduce revenues recognized during the contract term.
Day Rate Definition.
 
  
Rig Names.
We are in the process of completing name changes on some of our rigs, some of which may not be completed for some time.  For the purpose of our Fleet Status Report, we are using the new names even when the name change has not been completed.  Below is a legend showing the name changes.
 
Legend of rig names changing
 
 
Statements contained in this Fleet Status Report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, project, could, may, might, should, will and similar words and specifically include statements involving future rig day rates; cost adjustments; utilization; estimated rig availability; contract duration, status, terms and other contract commitments; customers; rig enhancement projects; new rig commitments; the expected period of time and number of rigs that will be in a shipyard for repairs, maintenance, enhancement or construction; and scheduled delivery dates for new rigs. Such statements are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to vary materially from those indicated, including governmental regulatory, legislative and permitting requirements affecting drilling operations; changes in worldwide rig supply and demand, competition and technology; future levels of offshore drilling activity; downtime and other risks associated with offshore rig operations, relocations, severe weather or hurricanes; possible cancellation or suspension of drilling contracts as a result of mechanical difficulties, performance or other reasons; risks inherent to shipyard rig construction, repair, maintenance or enhancement; actual contract commencement dates; environmental or other liabilities, risks or losses; our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel on commercially reasonable terms; governmental action, civil unrest and political and economic uncertainties; terrorism, piracy and military action; and the outcome of litigation, legal proceedings, investigations or other claims or contract disputes.  In addition to the numerous factors described above, you should also carefully read and consider Item 1A. Risk Factors in Part I and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, which is available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov or on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.enscoplc.com.  Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, except as required by law.
Forward Looking Statement.
 
 
Page 6 of 6


