FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20030417084608.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)      April 17, 2003
(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(State or other jurisdiction of Incorporation)
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Table of Contents
Item 7.     Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished herewith.
99.1    Press Release issued April 17, 2003.
Item 9.     Regulation FD Disclosure
Cerner Corporation is voluntarily furnishing herewith as Exhibit 99.1, the Press Release issued by the Company on April 17, 2003. This Press Release is also being furnished under Item 12.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
CONTACTS:
INVESTORS: Allan Kells, (816) 201-2445 akells@cerner.com
MEDIA: Gina Leo, (816) 201-1478 gleo@cerner.com
CERNER'S INTERNET HOME PAGE: http://www.cerner.com
Cash Flow Performance Remains Strong
Cerner Corporation (NASDAQ:CERN) today announced results for the first quarter ended March 29, 2003. Diluted earnings per share were $0.15, compared to $0.26 in the year-ago quarter. These results are in-line with the range announced on April 3, 2003.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  April 17, 2003 
First quarter revenues were $198.2 million, including revenue from reimbursed travel expense, compared to $181.4 million in the year-ago quarter. Excluding reimbursed travel revenue, first quarter revenues were $191.5 million, an increase of 9.3 percent over the $175.3 million in the first quarter of 2002. Beginning in the first quarter of 2003, the Company began including proceeds from reimbursed travel expense in revenue with a corresponding amount in cost of goods sold. This change has no impact on the dollar amount of gross margin, operating margin, or net earnings, but does slightly change the percent of revenue each of these items represent.
Net earnings in the quarter were $5.6 million, compared with $9.6 million for the first quarter of 2002. As announced on April 3, 2003, a lower level of new business bookings led to revenue and earnings below the Company's previous expectations.
The Company generated operating cash flow of $21.9 million in the first quarter driven by record cash collections and a record number of Millennium implementations.
Other results for the first quarter:
"We are pleased that we maintained our strong cash collection and operating cash flow performance in the quarter," said Neal Patterson, Cerner's co-founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We
 
believe this is a clear indication that our business model remains sound and that we are effective at delivering our solutions to clients."
"We believe our bookings results in the first quarter reflect the impact of an increasingly challenging economic environment for health care providers that may impact their ability to make commitments on their original timetable," added Patterson. "We also believe that the higher level of competition we referenced throughout 2002 is beginning to work its way through the sales cycle and impacting transactions, particularly in the competitors' installed bases. However, we believe there is still significant demand by health care providers for advanced HCIT solutions, and that Cerner remains well positioned to benefit from this demand by delivering our industry-leading solutions."
Cerner indicated it was comfortable with analyst earnings per share estimates for the second quarter of 2003 of $0.24 to $0.26 and full-year 2003 estimates between $1.10 and $1.15. The Company expects 2003 revenue to be approximately $840 to $860 million, including approximately $25 million of revenue from reimbursed travel expense. In the second quarter, Cerner expects revenue to be approximately $200 to $205 million, including approximately $6 million of revenue from reimbursed travel expense. The Company expects bookings revenue in the second quarter to be approximately $175 to $180 million. The Company's guidance reflects the carryover effect of the lower than expected first quarter bookings and a more conservative view of the marketplace in light of the factors that led to the lower first quarter bookings.
Future Period Guidance
Cerner will host an earnings conference call to provide additional detail at 8:00 a.m. CT on April 17, 2003. The dial-in number for the call is 719-457-2642 and the replay number is 719-457-0820 (confirmation #290294). The call will also be Web cast and available both live and archived on Cerner's Web site at www.cerner.com in the Investors' section under News and Events. Please access the site fifteen minutes early to register and to download and install any necessary audio software. For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, replays will be made available shortly after the call and will run for two weeks. A copy of the script used during the call will also be available at www.cerner.com in the Investors' section under News and Events.
Earnings Conference Call
Cerner Corporation is taking the paper chart out of health care, eliminating error, variance and unnecessary waste in the care process. With more than 1500 clients worldwide, Cerner is the leading supplier of health care information technology. The following are trademarks of Cerner: Cerner, Cerner's logo and Cerner Millennium. Nasdaq:CERN, www.cerner.com
This release may contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. It is important to note that the Company's performance, financial condition or business could differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. The words "believe", "comfortable with", "estimates", "expects", "approximately", "guidance", and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: quarterly operating results may vary, stock price may be volatile, market risk of investments, potential impairment of goodwill, changes in the health care industry, significant competition, the Company's proprietary technology may be subjected to infringement claims or may be infringed upon, regulation of the Company's software by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or other government regulation, the possibility of product-related liabilities, possible system errors or failures or defects in the performance of the Company's software, and risks associated with the Company's global operations. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the Company's business is contained in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time
 
Note (1): The Company incurs out-of-pocket expenses in connection with its client service activities, which are reimbursed by its clients. In accordance with EITF 01-14, these amounts have been reclassified from other income to revenue with a corresponding amount in cost of goods sold. This has no impact on the dollar amount of gross margin, operating margin, or net earnings, but does slightly change the percent of revenue each of these items represents.
 


