FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20030716160340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7.  Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished herewith.
99.1    Press Release issued July 16, 2003.
Item 9.  Regulation FD Disclosure
Cerner Corporation is furnishing herewith as Exhibit 99.1, the Press Release issued by the Company on July 16, 2003, which announces the Company's financial results for the three months and six months ended June 28, 2003. This Press Release is being furnished under this Item 9 in accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8216 dated March 27, 2003.
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the Company uses non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expense items. The Company also discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as bookings revenue and revenue backlog. These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our financial performance. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, unless the registrant expressly states otherwise.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
CONTACTS:
INVESTORS: Allan Kells, (816) 201-2445 akells@cerner.com
MEDIA: Donald Trigg, (816) 201-2730 dtrigg@cerner.com
CERNER'S INTERNET HOME PAGE: http://www.cerner.com
Record New Business Bookings and Cash Flow Performance
Cerner Corporation (NASDAQ:CERN) today announced results for the second quarter ended June 28, 2003. Diluted earnings per share were $0.25, compared to $0.39 in the year-ago quarter, which included a gain on the sale of WebMD shares that increased earnings per share by $0.07. Analysts' consensus estimates for second quarter earnings per share were $0.23.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  July 16, 2003 
Second quarter revenues increased 11 percent to $207.7 million, including $8.7 million of revenue from reimbursed travel expense, compared to $186.8 million with $6.3 million of reimbursed travel in the year-ago quarter. Net earnings in the quarter were $8.9 million, compared with $14.7 million in the second quarter of 2002, which included $2.7 million (after $1.6 million in tax) from the gain on the sale of WebMD shares.
The Company generated operating cash flow of $36.6 million in the second quarter driven by strong cash collections and a record number of implementations.
Cerner Millennium
Other Second Quarter Highlights:
 
"We are very pleased with our strong level of new business bookings, an indication that Cerner remains the top choice in health care information technology," said Neal Patterson, Cerner's co-founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We are also very pleased with our continued ability to deliver strong levels of cash flow, with this quarter marking our third consecutive quarter of strong cash flow performance."
"We still participate in a very competitive environment, and health care providers continue to face challenging economics," added Patterson. "However, we believe there is significant demand by health care providers for advanced health care information technology solutions and that Cerner remains well positioned to benefit from this demand by delivering our industry-leading solutions."
Future Period Guidance
Cerner expects earnings per share in the third quarter of 2003 to be between $0.31 to $0.33 and full-year 2003 to be between $1.13 and $1.18. Previous 2003 guidance was $1.10 to $1.15 per share. The Company expects 2003 revenue to be approximately $845 to $865 million, including approximately $30 million of revenue from reimbursed travel expense. In the third quarter, Cerner expects revenue to be approximately $210 to $215 million, including approximately $7 million of revenue from reimbursed travel expense. The Company expects bookings revenue in the third quarter to be approximately $190 to $200 million.
The Company is not providing specific 2004 earnings guidance at this time, but indicated that the current analyst consensus for earnings per share in 2004 of $1.49, which reflects annual growth of 25 to 30 percent, is reasonable.
Earnings Conference Call
Cerner will host an earnings conference call to provide additional detail at 3:30 p.m. CT on July 16, 2003. The dial-in number for the call is 617-786-2962 and the replay number is 617-801-6888 (Pass code: 63333038). The call will also be Web cast and available both live and archived on Cerner's Web site at www.cerner.com in the Investors' section under News and Events. Please access the site fifteen minutes early to register and to download and install any necessary audio software. For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, replays will be made available shortly after the call and will run for two weeks. A copy of the script used during the call will also be available at www.cerner.com in the Investors' section under News and Events.
Cerner Corporation is taking the paper chart out of health care, eliminating error, variance and unnecessary waste in the care process. With more than 1500 clients worldwide, Cerner is the leading supplier of health care information technology. The following are trademarks of Cerner: Cerner, Cerner's logo and Cerner Millennium. Nasdaq: CERN, www.cerner.com
This release may contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. It is important to note that the Company's performance, financial condition or business could differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. The words "believe", "estimates", "expects", "guidance", and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: quarterly operating results may vary, stock price may be volatile, market risk of investments, potential impairment of goodwill, changes in the health care industry, significant competition, the Company's proprietary technology may be subjected to infringement claims or may be infringed upon, regulation of the Company's software by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or other government regulation, the possibility of product-related liabilities, possible system errors or failures or defects in the performance of the Company's software, and risks associated with the Company's global operations. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the Company's business is contained in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time.
 
Cerner Corporation
 
Cerner Corporation
Note (1): The Company incurs out-of-pocket expenses in connection with its client service activities, which are reimbursed by its clients. In accordance with EITF 01-14, these amounts have been reclassified from other income to revenue with a corresponding amount in cost of goods sold. This has no impact on the dollar amount of gross margin, operating margin, or net earnings, but does slightly change the percent of revenue each of these items represents.
 
Cerner Corporation


