FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20031015161709.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished herewith.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Cerner Corporation is furnishing herewith as Exhibit 99.1, the Press Release issued by the Company on October 15, 2003, which announces the Company's financial results for the three months and nine months ended September 27, 2003. This Press Release is being furnished under this Item 9 in accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8216 dated March 27, 2003.
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the Company uses non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expense items. The Company also discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as booking revenue and revenue backlog. These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our financial performance. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, unless the registrant expressly states otherwise.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
     Exhibit 99.1
CONTACTS: INVESTORS: Allan Kells, (816) 201-2445
akells@cerner.com
MEDIA: Justin Scott, (816) 201-6438
jscott@cerner.com
CERNER'S INTERNET HOME PAGE:
http://www.cerner.com
Cerner Corporation (NASDAQ:CERN) today announced results for the third quarter ended September 27, 2003. Diluted earnings per share were $0.33, compared to $0.37 in the year-ago quarter. Analysts' consensus estimates for third quarter earnings per share were $0.32.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  October 15, 2003 
Third quarter revenues increased 5 percent to $206.3 million compared to $197.0 million in the year-ago quarter. Net earnings in the quarter were $12.0 million, compared to $13.8 million in the third quarter of 2002. The Company generated operating cash flow of $33.3 million in the third quarter driven by strong cash collections and a significant number of implementations.
Cerner Millennium
The Company also reported that SchlumbergerSema, with Cerner as its key partner, was awarded the Electronic Booking Service contract, which is the first contract awarded in the very large health care information technology procurement being conducted by the National Health Service in the United Kingdom. While this is the smallest of the contracts they plan to award, the Company considers it very strategic because Electronic Bookings will become part of the national architecture that will link health care providers and more than 50 million citizens in England.
Other Third Quarter Highlights:
"We are very pleased with our accomplishments in the third quarter," said Neal Patterson, Cerner's co-founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Specifically, we are pleased with our strong level of new business bookings and our continued strong operational execution, which led to a significant number of implementations and strong cash flow performance."
Cerner Millennium
 
"The competitive environment remains challenging," added Patterson. "However, we believe the health care information technology market remains strong, and that Cerner's proven ability to deliver value to our clients combined with our unmatched suite of solutions positions Cerner to continue having great success in the marketplace."
Cerner expects earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2003 to be between $0.41 and $0.43. The Company expects revenue in the fourth quarter to be approximately $225 million to $230 million. Cerner expects bookings revenue in the fourth quarter to be more than $200 million.
Future Period Guidance
For 2004, the Company believes that analysts' earnings per share estimates between $1.55 and $1.60 are reasonable. Cerner expects revenue in 2004 to be between $910 million and $930 million.
Cerner will host an earnings conference call to provide additional detail at 3:30 p.m. CT on October 15, 2003. The dial-in number for the call is 617-786-2960 and the replay number is 617-801-6888 (Pass code: 96974889). The call will also be Web cast and available both live and archived on Cerner's Web site at in the Investors' section under News and Events. Please access the site fifteen minutes early to register and to download and install any necessary audio software. For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, replays will be made available shortly after the call and will run for two weeks. A copy of the script used during the call will also be available at in the Investors' section under News and Events.
Earnings Conference Call
www.cerner.com
www.cerner.com
Cerner Corporation is taking the paper chart out of health care, eliminating error, variance and unnecessary waste in the care process. With more than 1500 clients worldwide, Cerner is the leading supplier of health care information technology. The following are trademarks of Cerner: Cerner, Cerner's logo and Cerner Millennium. Nasdaq: CERN,
www.cerner.com
This release may contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. It is important to note that the Company's performance, financial condition or business could differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. The words "believe", "continue", "guidance", "expects", "estimates" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: quarterly operating results may vary, stock price may be volatile, market risk of investments, potential impairment of goodwill, changes in the health care industry, significant competition, the Company's proprietary technology may be subjected to infringement claims or may be infringed upon, regulation of the Company's software by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or other government regulation, the possibility of product-related liabilities, possible system errors or failures or defects in the performance of the Company's software, and risks associated with the Company's global operations. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the Company's business is contained in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time.
 
Note (1): The Company incurs out-of-pocket expenses in connection with its client service activities, which are reimbursed by its clients. In accordance with EITF 01-14, these amounts have been reclassified from other income to revenue with a corresponding amount in cost of goods sold. This has no impact on the dollar amount of gross margin, operating margin, or net earnings, but does slightly change the percent of revenue each of these items represents.
 
Note (1): The non-GAAP statements exclude a special gain on the sale of shares of WebMD common stock and a charge for the impairment of goodwill in the year to date September 28, 2002 amounts.
 


