FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20050104151112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): December 28, 2004
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On December 28, 2004, the Company entered into a fourth amendment (the "Fourth Amendment") to the Credit Agreement between Cerner Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association as administrative agent and head arranger; LaSalle Bank National Association, as document agent; Commerce Bank, N.A.; and, UMB Bank, N.A., dated as of May 31, 2002, and as amended July 22, 2002, April 30, 2003 and September 1, 2004, and filed as exhibits 4(a) to Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 2002 (the "Agreement"), as Exhibit 4(d) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2002 (the "First Amendment"), as Exhibit 4(f) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 28, 2003 (the "Second Amendment") and as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed on September 8, 2004 (the "Third Amendment"), all of which are incorporated herein by reference. The Agreement, First Amendment, Second Amendment and Third Amendment hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Credit Agreement".
The material amendments in the Fourth Amendment: (i) modify the timing requirements for when a newly formed or acquired subsidiary of the Company is required to become a party to the subsidiary guaranty under the Credit Agreement; and, (ii) obtain the consent of the lending parties to certain transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, all as set forth in the attached Exhibit 99.1. Other material terms of the Credit Agreement remain unchanged and have been previously reported in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2004 and the Company's Form 8-K filed on September 8, 2004, both of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
c) Exhibits
               99.1 Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement dated December 28, 2004 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, LaSalle Bank National Association, Commerce Bank, N.A. and UMB Bank, N.A.
               Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     This Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement (the "Amendment") is made as of December 28, 2004, by and among CERNER CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"); U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, in its capacity as Administrative Agent, Lead Arranger, Swingline Lender, Issuing Bank and a Bank; LASALLE BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, in its capacity as Documentation Agent and a Bank; COMMERCE BANK, N.A., a national banking association, in its capacity as a Bank; and UMB BANK, N.A., a national banking association, in its capacity as a Bank. Capitalized terms used and not defined hereunder have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement referred to below.
     (a) The Borrower and the Bank Parties are parties to a Credit Agreement dated as of May 31, 2002, as amended by a First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of July 22, 2002, a Second Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of April 30, 2003, and a Third Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of September 1, 2004 (as so amended, the "Credit Agreement").
     (b) The Borrower has requested that the timing requirements for when a newly formed or acquired Subsidiary is required to become a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty be modified in certain respects. The Borrower has also requested that the Bank Parties consent to certain transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by the Borrower and certain of its Subsidiaries. The Bank Parties are willing to agree to the foregoing requests, subject, however, to the terms, conditions and agreements set forth below.
     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
          Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to add the following defined terms:
1. Definitions.
               "Fourth Amendment" shall mean the Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of December 28, 2004, among the Borrower and the Bank Parties.
               "Fourth Amendment Closing Date" shall mean December 28, 2004.
          . Section 6.9(b) of the Credit Agreement is deleted and is replaced by the following:
2. New Guarantor Subsidiaries
               (b) If a Person (other than a Foreign Subsidiary) becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower after the Closing Date, such Person shall become a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty. The following rules determine when such a Person must become a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty:
 
                    (1) if a Default or Event of Default exists at the time the Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower, the Person must become a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty within five Business Days after becoming a Subsidiary of the Borrower;
                    (2) if a Default or Event of Default occurs after the Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower but before the Person becomes a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty, the Person must become a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty within five Business Days after the occurrence of such Default or Event of Default;
                    (3) in all other cases, the Person (and all other Subsidiaries of the Borrower, excluding Foreign Subsidiaries, who are not parties to the Subsidiary Guaranty) must become a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty upon the earlier to occur of:
                              (A) when the aggregate amount of consideration paid (including, without limitation, Indebtedness assumed or guaranteed and the value of any stock or other securities issued) by the Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries for the Person  and for any other Persons (excluding Foreign Subsidiaries) who have became Subsidiaries of the Borrower since the Fourth Amendment Closing Date and who have not become parties to the Subsidiary Guaranty  exceeds the Threshold Amount; or
                              (B) when the book value of the assets of such Person, and those of any other Persons (excluding Foreign Subsidiaries) who have became Subsidiaries of the Borrower since the Fourth Amendment Closing Date and who have not become parties to the Subsidiary Guaranty, exceeds the Threshold Amount.
          The parties agree that the Borrower, or a Subsidiary of the Borrower, may, after the Fourth Amendment Closing Date, create a Subsidiary and transfer assets to such Subsidiary (to the extent such asset transfer is permitted under Section 6.10(e) hereof), and that such Subsidiary need not become a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty until such time as provided in this Section 6.9(b).
          For purposes hereof, "Threshold Amount" means, initially, the lesser of (i) 5% of the Consolidated Net Worth of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004, or (ii) 5% of the Consolidated Net Worth of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the last day of any fiscal quarter thereafter. If the aggregate amount of consideration paid by the Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries for any Subsidiaries of the Borrower created or acquired after the Fourth Amendment Closing Date exceeds the then-existing Threshold Amount  or if the book value of the assets of all Persons
 
referred to in subparagraph (B) immediately above who become Subsidiaries of the Borrower after the Fourth Amendment Closing Date exceeds the then-existing Threshold Amount  and the Borrower causes all such Subsidiaries to become parties to the Subsidiary Guaranty, the Threshold Amount shall be reset to an amount equal to the lesser of (i) 5% of the Consolidated Net Worth of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the last day of the then most recently-ended fiscal quarter, or (ii) 5% of the Consolidated Net Worth of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the last day of any fiscal quarter thereafter.
          Contemporaneously with a Subsidiary becoming a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty, the Borrower shall cause such Subsidiary to furnish such certificates and other documentation as the Administrative Agent may require, including, without limitation, favorable opinions of counsel to such Subsidiary (which opinions shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation necessary to cause such Subsidiary to become a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty).
     The Borrower represents and warrants to the Bank Parties that each Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than any Foreign Subsidiary) in existence on the date of this Amendment is a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty.
3. Subsidiary Guarantors.
      Subpart (e) of Section 6.10 of the Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
4. Conforming Amendment; Transfer of Assets to Newly-Formed Subsidiary.
     The Borrower has advised the Bank Parties that the Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries indicated below (a) have entered into the transactions described in subparagraph (i) below, and (b) subject to the Borrower obtaining the consents and waivers set forth in this Amendment, intend to enter into the transactions described in subparagraph (ii) below on or before March 31, 2005 (collectively, the "Transactions"):
5. Consent to Transactions.
 
The Bank Parties hereby consent to the Transactions and waive any Default or Event of Default that may arise or exist under the Credit Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents solely as a result of the Borrower and/or any of its Subsidiaries identified above having entered into or entering into, as the case may be, any of the Transactions. Insofar as the VitalWorks Transaction is concerned, the foregoing consent and waiver is subject to the condition subsequent that the VitalWorks Transaction is consummated in all material respects by March 31, 2005. Nothing herein shall be deemed to waive or modify the Borrower's obligation to comply with the financial covenants contained in Sections 6.5, 6.6, 6.7 and 6.8 of the Credit Agreement.
     
6. Updated Subsidiary Schedule.
          Section 5.12 of the Credit Agreement is deleted and is replaced by the following:
(a)
Section 5.12.
                    5.12. Subsidiaries. Each of the Subsidiaries listed on Schedule 5.12 hereto (other than the Foreign Subsidiaries) is a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Borrower, and the Borrower owns and has good title to (free and clear of all Liens), and has the unencumbered right to vote all the outstanding shares of capital stock of each such Subsidiary. Except as shown on Schedule 5.12, each of the Foreign Subsidiaries is a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of Cerner International, Inc., which owns and has good title to (free and clear of all Liens), and has the unencumbered right to vote all the outstanding shares of capital stock of each such Foreign Subsidiary. As of the date of the Fourth Amendment, the Borrower has only the Subsidiaries listed on Schedule 5.12 hereto.
          Schedule 5.12 to the Credit Agreement is deleted and is replaced by Schedule 5.12 to this Amendment.
(b)
New Schedule.
     Section 9.13 of the Credit Agreement is deleted and is replaced by the following:
7. Missouri Statutory Provision.
               9.13 Mo. Rev. Stat.  432.047 Statement. The following statement is given pursuant to Mo. Rev. Stat.  432.047: "
Oral agreements or commitments to loan money, extend credit or to forbear from enforcing repayment of a debt including promises to extend or renew such debt are not enforceable, regardless of the
 
"
legal theory upon which it is based that is in any way related to the credit agreement. To protect you (borrower(s)) and us (creditor) from misunderstanding or disappointment, any agreements we reach covering such matters are contained in this writing, which is the complete and exclusive statement of the agreement between us, except as we may later agree in writing to modify it.
     Notwithstanding anything in this Amendment to the contrary, unless and to the extent the Administrative Agent waives the benefits of this sentence by giving written notice thereof to the Borrower, none of the Bank Parties shall have any duties under this Amendment, nor shall any waivers, releases or other concessions, if any, made or given by any of the Bank Parties under this Amendment be effective, in each case until the Administrative Agent has received fully executed originals of each of the following, each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
8. Conditions Precedent to Amendment.
          This Amendment; and
(a)
Amendment
.
          Such other documents as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
(b)
Other
.
     The Borrower represents and warrants to the Bank Parties as follows: (a) it is a duly organized and validly existing corporation and has full corporate power and authority to enter into this Amendment and any documents or transactions contemplated hereby and to pay and perform its obligations in respect of each of the foregoing; (b) the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment and any documents contemplated hereby or any transactions contemplated hereby do not violate or conflict with, or require any consent under (except for any consents that have already been obtained and remain in effect), (i) the Borrower's certificate of incorporation, by-laws, or any other agreement or document relating to the Borrower's existence or authority to act, (ii) any agreement or instrument to which the Borrower is a party or by which the Borrower or any of its properties is bound, (iii) any court order, judicial proceeding or any administrative or arbitral order or decree, or (iv) any applicable law, rule or regulation; and (c) no authorization, approval or consent of or by, and no notice to or filing or registration with, any governmental authority or any other Person (except for any such authorization, approval, consent, notice, filing or registration which has already been obtained, given or made, as the case may be, and which remains in effect) is necessary for the Borrower to enter into this Amendment or any document contemplated hereby or any transaction contemplated hereby or to perform its obligations with respect to each of the foregoing.
9. Representations and Warranties.
     The Borrower reaffirms its obligations under the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents to which it is a party or by which it is bound, and represents, warrants and covenants to the Bank Parties, as a material inducement to the Bank Parties to enter into this Amendment and the transactions contemplated hereby, that (a) the Borrower has no (and, in any event, hereby waives any) defense, claim or right of setoff in respect of the Credit Agreement, any of the other Credit Documents or the actions or inactions of any of the Bank Parties; and (b) all representations and warranties made by the Borrower in the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents are true and complete on the date hereof as if made on the date hereof, except for any such representations or warranties which specifically and expressly relate to an earlier date, which representations and warranties were true and complete as of such earlier date.
10. Reaffirmation of Credit Documents.
     . Except as amended hereby, the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents shall remain in full force and effect and be binding on the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms.
11. No Other Amendments
 
     This Amendment and any document contemplated hereby may be executed in one or more counterparts and by different parties thereto, all of which counterparts, when taken together, shall constitute but one agreement. This Amendment and any document contemplated hereby may be executed and delivered by facsimile or other electronic transmission, and any such execution or delivery shall be fully effective as if executed and delivered in person.
12. Counterparts; Fax Signatures.
     . The Borrower shall pay the reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation and closing of this Amendment and any other documents referred to herein and the consummation of any transactions referred to herein.
13. Legal Fees
     The following statement is given pursuant to Mo.Rev.Stat.  432.047: All other Credit Documents are incorporated into this Amendment; , , that, to the extent of any direct conflict between the terms and conditions of the other Credit Documents and this Amendment, the terms and conditions of this Amendment shall prevail and govern.
14. Mo.Rev.Stat.  432.047 Required Notice.
"Oral agreements or commitments to loan money, extend credit or to forbear from enforcing repayment of a debt including promises to extend or renew such debt are not enforceable, regardless of the legal theory upon which it is based that is in any way related to the credit agreement. To protect you (borrower(s)) and us (creditor) from misunderstanding or disappointment, any agreements we reach covering such matters are contained in this writing, which is the complete and exclusive statement of the agreement between us, except as we may later agree in writing to modify it."
provided
however
     This Amendment shall be governed by the laws of the State of Missouri without regard to any choice of law rule thereof giving effect to the laws of any other jurisdiction.
15. Governing Law.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have entered into this Amendment as of the date first above written.
 
     Reference is made to the Guaranty dated as of May 31, 2002, in favor of the Administrative Agent, on behalf of the Banks, the Swingline Lender and the Issuing Bank, to which the undersigned (each a "Guarantor") are parties, either as an original signatory thereto or pursuant to any subsequent assumption, joinder or other agreements, and any other guaranty executed by any Guarantor in favor of the Administrative Agent or any other Bank Party relating to any indebtedness of the Borrower under any of the Credit Documents (collectively, with respect to each Guarantor, such Guarantor's "Guaranty"). Capitalized terms used and not defined in this Consent of Guarantors have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement referred to in the above Amendment. To induce the Bank Parties to enter into the above Amendment, each Guarantor: (a) consents to the Borrower and the Bank Parties entering into the above Amendment; (b) agrees that the execution, delivery and performance of the above Amendment and any documents or transactions contemplated thereby shall not discharge, limit or otherwise impair the obligations of such Guarantor under such Guarantor's Guaranty; (c) agrees that such Guarantor's Guaranty is and remains in full force and effect and is enforceable against such Guarantor in accordance with its terms; (d) waives any defense, claim or right of setoff such Guarantor may have in respect of such Guarantor's Guaranty, the Credit Agreement, the other Credit Documents or the actions or inactions of any of the Bank Parties; and (e) agrees that none of the Bank Parties has any duty to give such Guarantor notice of or obtain such Guarantor's consent to the transactions described in the above Amendment, and that the Bank Parties' giving of notice to such Guarantor and obtainment of such Guarantor's consent in this instance shall not impose any similar or other duty upon any of the Bank Parties in any future matter or transaction. This Consent of Guarantors may be validly executed and delivered by fax or other electronic transmission and in multiple counterparts and by different parties thereto.
 
 
 


