FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20050203164515.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry Into A Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 3, 2005, in connection with the Board appointment set forth below in Item 5.02, Cerner Corporation (the "Company") and John C. Danforth entered into an Indemnification Agreement (the "Agreement") providing Mr. Danforth with indemnification rights in consideration of Mr. Danforth's acceptance of his position with and his continued service to the Company as a Director. The Agreement provides for Cerner to hold harmless and indemnify Mr. Danforth, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law and in accordance with the Company's Bylaws, Articles of Incorporation and the Agreement, and is substantially similar to the indemnification agreements entered into with the Company's other current Directors, pursuant to Company policy to enter into indemnification agreements with each of its Directors.
The foregoing description of the Agreement does not purport to be a complete statement of the parties' rights and obligations under the Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby. The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 3, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing, among other things, its financial results for the three and twelve month periods ended January 1, 2005. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 and is attached hereto.
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the Company uses non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expense items. The Company also discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as bookings revenue, revenue backlog (which includes contract backlog and support and maintenance backlog) and free cash flow. These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our financial performance, and as required, are also reconciled to GAAP. These non-GAAP measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.2) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise be subject to the liabilities of that section. The information is this Item 2.02 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On February 3, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company, by statement of unanimous consent, appointed John C. Danforth to the Company's Board of Directors, to hold office for a term expiring at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held in May 2005, to fill the vacant Director position created by Mr. Danforth's resignation from the Board which was effective June 24, 2004.
Mr. Danforth was a Director of the Company from May 1996 through June 2004. Mr. Danforth served as Ambassador to the United Nations from June 2004 through January 2005 and represented the State of Missouri in the U.S. Senate for 18 years until 1994.
In connection with the appointment to the Company's Board of Directors, the Board of Directors also named Mr. Danforth to the Company's Compensation and Nominating, Governance & Public Policy Committees, effective February 3, 2005.
Additionally, Paul M. Black was appointed to act as Chief Operating Officer of the Company effective February 1, 2005. Prior to his appointment to Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Black served as the Company's Executive Vice President of the U.S. Client Organization.
The information required by Item 5.02(c)(2) of Form 8-K in connection with Mr. Black's appointment as Chief Operating Officer is incorporated herein by reference to: (i) Item 4A of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended on January 3, 2004, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2004; and (ii) the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Commission on April 20, 2004.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
The Company issued its earnings press release on February 3, 2005, which also announced the appointment of Mr. Danforth to the Company's Board of Directors. A copy of the press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in Item 7.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.2) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise be subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 7.01 (including Exhibit 99.2) shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 3 day of February, 2005, between Cerner Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Corporation"), and John C. Danforth ("Indemnitee").
rd
     WITNESSETH:
     WHEREAS, Indemnitee is a member of the board of directors of the Corporation and as such is performing a valuable service for the Corporation; and
     WHEREAS, although Indemnitee has certain rights to indemnification under the Bylaws and Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, such Bylaws and Certificate of Incorporation specifically provide that they are not exclusive and thereby contemplate that the Corporation may enter into agreements with its officers and directors; and
     WHEREAS, the Corporation and Indemnitee desire to enter into this Agreement to provide to Indemnitee additional rights to indemnification in consideration of Indemnitee's acceptance of his position with and his continued service to the Corporation as a director;
     NOW, THEREFORE, inconsideration of Indemnitee's acceptance of his position with and his continued service as a director of the Corporation after the date hereof and for and in consideration of the premises and the covenants contained herein, the Corporation and Indemnitee do hereby promise and agree as follows:
     1. Indemnification. The Corporation hereby agrees to hold harmless and indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by Section 145, Title 8 of the Delaware Code, as in effect on the date of the execution of this Agreement and as it may hereafter be amended, or any other statutory provision permitting or authorizing such indemnification which is adopted subsequent to the execution of this Agreement.
     2. Maintenance of Insurance. So long as Indemnitee shall continue to serve as a director of the Corporation (or shall continue at the request of the Corporation or on behalf of the Corporation to serve as a director, officer, employee or agent to any Other Enterprise) and thereafter so long as Indemnitee shall be subject to any possible claim or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or appellate by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director of the Corporation (or is or was serving in any of said other capacities at the request of the Corporation), the Corporation may maintain director liability insurance if such insurance becomes reasonably available and if, in the business judgment of the board of directors of the Corporation as it may exist from time to time, both (i) the premium cost for such insurance is reasonable, and (ii) the coverage provided by such insurance is not so limited by exclusions that there is insufficient benefit provided by such director liability insurance.
     3. Additional Indemnification. Subject only to the provisions in Sections 4, 5, 6 and 7 of this Agreement, the Corporation hereby further agrees to hold harmless and indemnify Indemnitee:
         (a) Against any and all liabilities and expenses, including without limitation, judgments, amounts paid in settlement (provided that such settlement and all amounts paid
 
  in connection therewith are approved in advance by the Corporation, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), attorneys' fees, ERISA excise taxes or penalties, fines and other expenses actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding (including without limitation the investigation, defense, settlement or appeal of such action, suit or proceeding), whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or appellate (including an action by or in the right of the Corporation) to which Indemnitee is, was or at any time becomes a party, or is threatened to be made a party, by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is, was or at any time becomes a director of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, agent or employee of any Other Enterprise; and
         (b) Otherwise to the fullest extent as may be provided to Indemnitee by the Corporation pursuant to the non-exclusivity provisions of paragraph 28 of the Corporation's Bylaws and subsection (f) of Section 145, Title 8 of the Delaware Code relating to indemnification.
     4. Limitations on Additional Indemnification. (a) The Corporation will not hold Indemnitee harmless or provide indemnification pursuant to Section 3 hereof:
(1) except to the extent that the aggregate amount of losses to be indemnified thereunder exceeds the amount of such losses for which Indemnitee is indemnified either pursuant to (i) the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or other agreement, (ii) Sections 1 or 2 hereof, (iii) pursuant to any director liability insurance purchased and maintained by or on behalf of Indemnitee by the Corporation, or (iv) otherwise than pursuant to this Agreement;
(2) in respect of remuneration paid to Indemnitee if it shall be determined by a final judgment or other final adjudication that such remuneration was in violation of law;
(3) on account of any suit for an accounting of profits made from the purchase or sale by Indemnitee of securities of the Corporation pursuant to Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and amendments thereto or similar provisions of any federal, state or local law;
(4) on account of Indemnitee's conduct which is finally adjudged by a court to have been knowingly fraudulent, deliberately dishonest or willful misconduct; or
(5) if a final adjudication by a court having jurisdiction in the matter shall determine that such indemnification is not lawful.
         (c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, if the Indemnitee is or was serving as a director of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of any Other Enterprise, and has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in Section 3 of this Agreement (including the dismissal of any such action, suit or proceeding without prejudice), or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith to the extent he has not been fully indemnified therefor otherwise than pursuant to this Agreement.
 
     5. Advancement of Expenses. Expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by an Indemnitee who may be entitled to indemnification hereunder in defending an action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or appellate, shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such Indemnitee to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification by the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no advance shall be made by the Corporation if a determination is reasonably and promptly made by (i) the board of directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to the action, suit or proceeding from which the advancement is requested, or (ii) if a quorum is not obtainable, or even if obtainable, if a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iii) by the stockholders, that, based upon the facts known to the board, counselor stockholders at the time such determination is made, such Indemnitee acted in bad faith and in a manner that such Indemnitee did not believe to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, or, with respect to any criminal proceeding, that such Indemnitee believed or had reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. In no event shall any advance be made in instances where the board, stockholders or independent legal counsel reasonably determines that such Indemnitee deliberately breached his duty to the Corporation or its stockholders.
     6. Notification and Defense of Claim. Promptly after receipt by Indemnitee of notice of the commencement of any action, suit or proceeding, Indemnitee will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the Corporation under this Agreement, notify the Corporation of the commencement thereof; but the omission so to notify the Corporation will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to Indemnitee otherwise than under this Agreement. With respect to any such action, suit or proceeding as to which Indemnitee notifies the Corporation of the commencement thereof:
 
     7. Determination of Right to Indemnification. Prior to indemnifying an Indemnitee pursuant to this Agreement, unless ordered by a court, the Corporation shall determine that such Indemnitee is entitled thereto under the terms of this Agreement. Any determination that a person shall or shall not be indemnified under this Agreement shall be made by the board of directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to the action, suit or proceeding, or if such quorum is not obtainable, or even if obtainable, if a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion or by the stockholders, and such determination shall be final and binding upon the Corporation; provided, however, that in the event such determination is adverse to the Indemnitee, such Indemnitee shall have the right to maintain an action in any court of competent jurisdiction against the Corporation to determine whether or not such Indemnitee is entitled to such indemnification hereunder. If such court action is successful and the Indemnitee is determined to be entitled to such indemnification, such Indemnitee shall be reimbursed by the Corporation for all fees and expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any such action (including without limitation the investigation, defense, settlement or appeal of such action). This Agreement shall be applicable to any claim asserted after the date hereof whether such claim arises from acts or omissions occurring before or after the date hereof.
     8. Certain Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, references to "Other Enterprise" shall include without limitation any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or employee benefit plan; references to "fine" or "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on Indemnitee with respect to any employee benefit plan; references to "defense" shall include investigations of any action, suit or proceeding as well as appeals in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding and shall also include any defensive assertion of a cross claim or counterclaim; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, Indemnitee with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan he shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Agreement. For the purpose of this Agreement, unless the board of directors of the Corporation shall determine otherwise, any Indemnitee who shall serve as an officer or director of any Other Enterprise of which the Corporation, directly or indirectly, is a stockholder or creditor, or in which the Corporation is in any way interested, shall be presumed to be serving as such director or officer at the request of the Corporation. In all other instances where any Indemnitee shall serve as a director, officer, employee or agent of an Other Enterprise, if it is not otherwise established that such Indemnitee is or was serving as such director, officer, employee or agent at the request of the Corporation, the board of directors of the Corporation shall determine whether such Indemnitee is or was serving at the request of the Corporation, and it shall not be necessary to show any actual or prior request for such service, which determination shall be final and binding on the Corporation and the Indemnitee seeking indemnification.
     9. Continuation and Enforcement of Indemnification.
 
     10. Non-Exclusivity. The right to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which Indemnitee may be entitled under any statute, other agreement, the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, pursuant to a vote of stockholders or disinterested directors, insurance policy or otherwise, both as to actions in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding his directorship, and shall not limit in any way any right the Corporation may have to create additional or independent or supplementary obligations to indemnify Indemnitee.
     11. Severability. Each of the provisions of this Agreement is a separate and distinct agreement independent of the others, and if any provision of this Agreement or the application of any provision hereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable by a court for any reason whatsoever, the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. The parties hereto expressly agree that any provision hereof held invalid, illegal or unenforceable shall be construed and modified by the court finding such provision invalid, illegal or unenforceable to the extent necessary so as to render such provision valid and enforceable as against all persons or entities and to provide the maximum possible protection to the person subject to indemnification hereunder within the bounds of validity, legality and enforceability. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement by the Corporation for some or a portion of the judgments, amounts paid in settlement, attorneys' fees, ERISA excise taxes or penalties, fines or other expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding (including without limitation, the investigation, defense, settlement or appeal of such action, suit or proceeding), whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or appellate, but not, however, for all of the total amount thereof, the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify the Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which such person is entitled.
 
     12. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed, interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to any of its conflict of law rules.
     13. Modification; Survival. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and no amendment, modification, termination or cancellation of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing signed by both parties hereto. The provisions of this Agreement shall survive the termination of Indemnitee's service as a director and/or officer of the Corporation with respect to actions, suits or proceedings brought or instituted in respect of any action taken or the failure to take any action occurring prior to such termination of service.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement and affixed their signatures hereto as of the date first above written.
CERNER CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation
      
[SEAL]
ATTEST:
Randy D. Sims, Secretary
/s/Randy D. Sims

 
Exhibit 99.2
CONTACTS: INVESTORS: Allan Kells, (816) 201-2445
akells@cerner.com
MEDIA: Justin Scott, (816) 201-6438
jscott@cerner.com
CERNER'S INTERNET HOME PAGE:
http://www.cerner.com
Cerner Corporation (NASDAQ:CERN) today announced results for the 2004 fourth quarter ended Jan. 1, 2005, delivering record earnings and cash flow. Diluted earnings per share were $0.56 in the fourth quarter. Analysts' consensus estimates for fourth quarter earnings per share were $0.54. For the year, diluted earnings per share were $1.72, including a gain on the sale of Zynx Health, Incorporated, in the first quarter that increased earnings per share by $0.05 and an accrued vacation pay adjustment in the third quarter that decreased earnings per share by $0.06. Earnings per share were a record for the quarter and year.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  Feb. 3, 2005 
Fourth quarter revenues increased 9 percent to $248.2 million compared to $227.4 million in the year-ago quarter. Full-year 2004 revenues increased 10 percent to $926.4 million compared to $839.6 million in 2003.
Net earnings in the 2004 fourth quarter were $21.4 million, up 32 percent over the fourth quarter of 2003. Net earnings for 2004 were $64.6 million up 51 percent compared to 2003. Net earnings prior to the gain on the sale of Zynx Health and the accrued vacation pay adjustment were $64.9 million in 2004. Net earnings were a record for the quarter and year.
New business bookings revenue in the fourth quarter was $244.8 million, which is up 13 percent over the third quarter of 2004 and is the second highest level of new business bookings in the Company's history. The highest level was $255 million in the fourth quarter of 2003, which included an unusually large transaction that was in excess of $50 million.
The Company generated record operating cash flow of $55.7 million in the fourth quarter driven by strong cash collections and reflective of continued operational improvements. Full-year 2004 operating cash flow was also a record at $168.3 million.
Other Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2004 Highlights:
 
Page 2
"Our fourth quarter and full-year 2004 results reflect the strongest overall performance in our history," said Neal Patterson, Cerner's co-founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We generated strong margin expansion and cash flow and demonstrated our superior ability to deliver value to our clients by implementing a record number of Cerner Millennium solutions."
"We continue to believe that Cerner remains well positioned in the very active healthcare information technology sector," added Patterson. "We believe Cerner's single architecture approach and depth and breadth of solutions and services uniquely position us to play a major role in providing a network for healthcare information that connects families, physicians, hospitals, clinics, laboratories and pharmacies across major metropolitan and rural areas. This vision and our abilities align with the Government's consideration of a national health information network that is needed to reduce costs and improve safety in our healthcare system."
Cerner expects earnings per share in the first quarter of 2005 to be between $0.41 and $0.42, which is approximately 25 percent over the first quarter of 2004. The Company expects revenue in the first quarter to be approximately $250 million to $255 million.
Future Period Guidance
For 2005, the Company expects earnings per share between $2.07 and $2.12, which is up from the prior range of $2.05 to $2.10. Cerner expects revenue for 2005 to be between $1.08 billion and $1.1 billion, which is up from the prior range of $1.01 billion to $1.03 billion.
Cerner also announced that former U.S. Senator John C. Danforth has re-joined its Board of Directors, effective today. Senator Danforth brings invaluable experience from his 18 years as a U.S. Senator where he was a long-time member of the Senate Finance Committee. Danforth recently stepped down as U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, affording him the opportunity to re-join the Cerner Board.
Cerner Board Member Announcement
Cerner will host an earnings conference call to provide additional detail at 3:30 p.m. CT on February 3, 2005. The dial-in number for the call is (617) 786-2903 and the replay number is (617) 801-6888 (Pass code: 90190036). The call will also be Web cast and available both live and archived on Cerner's Web site at in the Investors' section under Presentation and Webcasts. Please access the site fifteen minutes early to register and to download and install any necessary audio software. For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, replays will be made available shortly after the call and will run for two weeks. A copy of the script used during the call will also be available at in the Investors' section under Presentation and Webcasts.
Earnings Conference Call
www.cerner.com
www.cerner.com
Cerner Corp. is taking the paper chart out of healthcare, eliminating error, variance and waste in the care process. With more than 1,500 clients worldwide, Cerner is the leading supplier of healthcare information technology. The following are trademarks of Cerner: Cerner, Cerner Millennium, and Cerner's logo. (Nasdaq:CERN), .
www.cerner.com
 
Page 3
This release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. It is important to note that the Company's performance, and actual results, financial condition or business could differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. The words "believe", "expects", "guidance", or variations thereof or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: quarterly operating results may vary, stock price may be volatile, market risk of investments, potential impairment of goodwill, changes in the healthcare industry, significant competition, the Company's proprietary technology may be subjected to infringement claims or may be infringed upon, regulation of the Company's software by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or other government regulation, the possibility of product-related liabilities, possible system errors or failures or defects in the performance of the Company's software, risks associated with the Company's global operation and the recruitment and retention of key personnel. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the Company's business is contained in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time.
 
Exhibit 99.2 (cont.)
 
Exhibit 99.2 (cont.)
 
Exhibit 99.2 (cont.)


