FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20060316142329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTE
Cerner Corporation is filing this Form 8-K/A, solely to amend its Form 8-K filed on March 10, 2006, in order to correct the 2006 Option Grants reflected in the far right column of the 2006 Stock Option Grants table.
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On March 6, 2006, after review and consideration of Cerner Corporation's (the Company's) performance in 2005, the individual performance of the Company's named executive officers as noted below and such other matters and information as deemed appropriate, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) and the Equity and Cash Incentive Grant Subcommittee (the Subcommittee) of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the following actions:
     The 2006 base salary levels, beginning March 5, 2006, and the 2006 target (not the maximum) bonus levels under the Executive Performance Plans, described below, of the Company's named executive officers were set as follows:
Fiscal 2006 Base Salaries and Target Bonus Levels.
     2
006 Individual Executive Compensation (Cash Bonus) Plans.
The Company's Performance Plan (the Plan), an incentive-based compensation plan, is designed to provide a meaningful incentive on both a quarterly and annual basis to key associates and executives of the Company and to motivate them to assist the Company in achieving ambitious, attainable, short-term goals. Under the executive feature of the Plan, for which the Company's Section 16 Insider officers are eligible, the Subcommittee establishes targets prior to or at the beginning of the performance period and for which
 
measurement of the achievement of such targets can be, and are, determined under pre-established objective formulas.
Individual executive compensation plans are entered into with each of the Company's Section 16 Insiders, including its named executive officers, pursuant to the Plan (the Executive Performance Plans), which Executive Performance Plans set forth the quarterly and annual targets for each of the named executive officers. The 2006 performance awards for the Company's named executive officers will be based primarily on achievement of earnings per share and cash collections as a measure of client satisfaction targets and, for named executive officers with sales-focused roles and/or operational responsibility, the targets will also include contract and operating margins and operational metrics such as service level request resolution and client systems uptime.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2006 Executive Performance Plan, which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The Subcommittee approved grants of stock options to be issued on March 9, 2006, to the Company's Section 16 Insiders. Consistent with the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plans, the options have an exercise price of $43.51 per share (the closing price of the Company's common stock on The NASDAQ Stock Market on March 9, 2006) and vest over a five year term with 40% vested at the end of the second year and 20% each year thereafter. Specifically, the 2006 option grants to the Company's named executive officers were set as follows:
2006 Stock Option Grants.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Document Overview
This document describes Cerner's structured approach to determining incentive payments. This document is specific to the Plan type and individual noted above and contains information specific to the administration of this particular Plan.
Plan Purpose
This Plan is intended to align performance incentives with Cerner's current business imperatives to drive business results in 2006.
Plan Metrics
Your annual Target Bonus Level (TBL) is $Total_TBL. Your total opportunity will be comprised of the following metrics:
Individual Contribution (IC) Factor
An additional factor that will be included in the incentive calculation is the Individual Contribution (IC) rating. Each Associate on CPP will receive a quarterly and an annual IC rating. This rating will be determined by performance against expectations for the role.
The Individual Contribution percentage will be determined and applied as shown in the table below. Quarterly Individual Contribution ratings will only be applied for a rating less than "Highly Valued." Annual Individual Contribution ratings (collected following the fourth quarter) will be applied to an Associate's weighted average target bonus level according to the table below.
 
*These amounts will be adjusted to reflect actual attainment of objective performance targets, for your Rewardable Events plan metrics and changes, if any, in your Target Bonus Level.
**This amount plus your Target Bonus Level will equal your maximum bonus amount, which may also be adjusted upward or downward to reflect actual attainment of objective performance targets.
***All associates will be reviewed on a quarterly basis to determine the appropriateness of a CPP incentive payment prior to any distribution. Associates with New to Role, Needs Development or Unacceptable ratings will have these adjustments applied to quarterly CPP incentive payments. These payments are at the discretion of Cabinet.
 
Payment Terms, Schedule and Criteria
Payment for quarterly metrics (E Timing Code) will be calculated based on approved quarterly targets. Each quarter, you will be eligible to be paid 25 percent of your annual opportunity for these metrics. The earnings for these metrics will be based upon the targets referenced in your Plan document.
Terms
Payment for E Timing Code Metrics
Payment for cumulative YTD metrics (Y Timing Code) will be calculated quarterly based on approved quarterly targets that build cumulatively to a full-year target. For each of the first three quarters of the year, the Associate will be eligible to be paid 15 percent of the Associate's annual opportunity based on these metrics. At year-end, the remainder of the Associate's incentive will be calculated based on the full-year targets. The earnings for these metrics will be based upon the targets referenced in the Associate's Plan document or on myCerner.
Payment for Y Timing Code Metrics
Payment for the semi-annual metrics (Z Timing Code) will be calculated semi-annually based on approved semi-annual targets. Each semi-annual period, you will be eligible to be paid 50 percent of the annual opportunity based on these metrics. If an Associate becomes eligible for a semi-annual metric in the second quarter of a semi-annual period, the associate will be eligible for 50 percent of the available opportunity for the semi-annual period. The earnings for these metrics will be based upon the targets referenced in the Associate's Plan document.
Payment for Z Timing Code Metrics
Payment for percent attainment metrics (N Timing Code) will be calculated quarterly based on approved annual targets. Each quarter, you will be eligible to receive the marginal gain over the last quarter.
Payment for N Timing Code Metrics
Changes in an Associate's TBL will be reflected in payment calculations on a pro-rata basis for the appropriate quarters.
Other Payment Terms
The year-end calculation of payments will not affect amounts earned for previous quarters; however, the actual Individual Contribution adjustment, if applicable, will apply to incentives earned for the full year.
Corrections to prior period payments may be made to ensure accurate incentive payment.
Schedule
Payment of incentives will, in most cases, be made approximately sixty (60) days after the end of a quarter.
Criteria
Other Plan Considerations
 
Capitalized terms in this plan have the meanings set forth in the CPP Glossary or the contents of this document.


