FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20070405162644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
        Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): March 30, 2007
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 5.02(e) Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On March 30, 2007, Cerner Corporation (the "Company") entered into Executive Performance Agreements with its executive officers for the 2007 fiscal year pursuant to the Company's Section 162(m) Performance-Based Compensation Plan (the "162(m) Plan"). The Executive Performance Agreements entered into with the Company's Section 16 Insiders implement performance metrics and target bonus levels as previously approved by the 162(m) Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
The 162(m) Plan is an incentive-based compensation plan, designed to provide a meaningful incentive on both a quarterly and annual basis to key associates and executives of the Company and to motivate them to assist the Company in achieving ambitious, attainable, short-term goals. Under the executive feature of the 162(m) Plan, for which the Company's Section 16 Insider officers are eligible, the 162(m) Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee establishes performance metrics prior to or at the beginning of the performance period and for which measurement of the achievement of such targets can be, and are, determined under pre-established objective formulas.
Individual Executive Performance Agreements are entered into with each of the Company's Section 16 Insiders, including its named executive officers (NEOs), pursuant to the 162(m) Plan. The material terms of the 2007 Executive Performance Agreements include: i) Target Bonus Levels for each of the NEOs; ii) quarterly and annual performance metrics for each of the NEOs; iii) incentive compensation payments based on individual Performance Factor ratings; iv) eligibility requirements; and, iv) adjustment rights for the Company to adjust incentive payments downward based on certain factors.
The 2007 performance metrics for the Company's NEOs will be based solely on achievement of earnings per share targets.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Form of 2007 Executive Performance Agreement, which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
    c)    Exhibits
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Plan Metrics
Your annual Target Bonus Level (TBL) is $"Total_TBL". Your total opportunity will be comprised of the following metrics:
Depending on whether the achievement of the target metric is at, below or above the target metric amount, your calculated incentive payment will be increased or decreased in accordance with the table set forth below. This calculated incentive payment amount, whether or not adjusted based on the Attainment % of the Performance Metric, may also be reduced depending on your quarterly and annual Performance Factor (PF).
Maximum Payout
If the established metrics are achieved above the target metric amount, you may be eligible to be paid up to 140% of your TBL as set forth in the table below. In addition, if at least the minimum payout Attainment % of the Performance Metric is achieved, you may be eligible to be paid up to an additional 25% of your TBL, if you receive a PF rating of "Outstanding" or "Distinguished". If you receive a PF other than "Outstanding" or "Distinguished," or the percentage bonus amounts for the "Outstanding" or "Distinguished" categories is determined to be less than 25%, you will receive a lesser amount (between 0 and 25% of your TBL). Even if you receive a PF rating of "Outstanding" or "Distinguished," you may not receive any payment other than Payout % of your TBL indicated in the table below based on the actual Attainment % of Performance Metric achieved. In no event may the maximum payout amount be greater than the lesser of 165% of your TBL or the maximum payout under the executive feature of Cerner's 162(m) Performance-Based Compensation Plan relative to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "162(m) Plan").
MAXIMUM PAYOUT REDUCTION-- BASED ON PERFORMANCE FACTOR
You will receive a quarterly and an annual PF rating determined by your direct manager.
A PF rating of "Needs Development" or "Unacceptable" for any quarter or for the year may result in a 0-100% reduction of your initial calculated incentive payment. If you receive a "Highly Valued" rating for any quarter or for the year, you will only receive a payment equal to the applicable Payout % (as set forth above) of your TBL. If the minimum payout Attainment % of Performance Metric is achieved and you receive an annual PF of "Outstanding" or "Distinguished," you may receive a PF adjustment equal to 0-25% of your TBL, but in no event shall your total payout exceed $MXP (your maximum payout). Any reductions in calculated incentive payments resulting from a PF rating may not be earned back.
 
Payment Terms, Schedule and Criteria
Terms
Payment for Y Timing Code Metrics
Payment for cumulative YTD metrics (Y Timing Code) will be calculated quarterly based on approved quarterly targets that build cumulatively to a full-year target. For each of the first three quarters of the year, the Associate will be eligible to be paid 15% of the Associate's annual TBL opportunity based on these metrics. At year-end, the remainder of the Associate's incentive will be calculated based on the full-year targets.
Timing Code definitions of specific payment timing are located in the CPP Glossary located on MyCerner.
Changes in an Associate's TBL based on annual compensation adjustments will be reflected in payment calculations on a pro-rata basis for the appropriate quarters. However, in no event may the TBL of a Covered Executive (as defined in the Cerner's 162(m) Plan) change after the initial 162(m) Plan metrics and Covered Executive's eligible performance compensation opportunity are established by the Compensation Committee.
The year-end calculation of payments will not affect amounts earned for previous quarters; however, the actual PF adjustment, if applicable, will apply to incentives earned for the full year.
Corrections to prior period payments may be made and applied to current period payments earned to ensure accurate incentive payments.
Timing
Payment of incentives will be made approximately sixty (60) days after the end of a quarter.
Criteria
Other Considerations
 
Capitalized terms in this Agreement have the meanings set forth in the CPP Glossary or the contents of this document.


