FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20070209160917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry Into A Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 6, 2007, Cerner Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Aircraft Services Agreement between Rockcreek Aviation, Inc. (the Company's wholly-owned flight operations subsidiary ("Rockcreek Aviation")) and PANDI, Inc. ("PANDI"). PANDI owns and operates a Beechcraft, BeechJet 400 (the "Aircraft") and PANDI's sole shareholders are Neal L. Patterson (the Company's Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer) and Clifford W. Illig (the Company's Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors).
The Aircraft Services Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions under which Rockcreek Aviation will provide aircraft services to PANDI, including: pilot/crew services, operational support services (local hanger space, flight safety training and certain record-keeping and insurance-related functions), and maintenance, inspections and repairs. Daily pilot/crew fees will be $850/day of use. Operational support services will be charged at $8,000 per month. Maintenance, inspections and repairs will be charged to PANDI based on actual labor and parts. All other direct expenses are also charged to PANDI at cost, such as: fuel and oil; out-of-pocket expenses for crew lodging and dining; landing and parking fees, international landing, handling and navigation fees, hangar fees away from the base of operation, flight phone fees, and catering fees in connection with a PANDI flight or flights; and, direct operating costs of the Aircraft for PANDI's flights.
The material terms of the Aircraft Services Agreement specifically provide for: (i) a one (1) year term, with termination by either party upon sixty (60) days notice, (ii) insurance coverage to be provided by Rockcreek Aviation on the Aircraft as follows: (a) Aircraft Bodily Injury and Property Damage Liability, including Passenger Liability, in limits of not less than fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) combined single limit any one occurrence; and (b) All Risks Hull (Physical Damage), including War Risks and Confiscation, with an Agreed Value of two million dollars ($2,000,000); (iii) operational control, possession and command and control of the Aircraft will remain with PANDI, (iv) indemnification by each party to defend, and hold harmless the other party, its officers, directors, employees, shareholders and agents from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities (including, without limitation, bodily injury or death), demands, suits, judgments, causes of action, legal proceedings, whether civil or criminal, penalties, fines, other sanctions, and any costs and expenses in connection therewith, including attorneys' fees and expenses (any and all of which are hereinafter referred to as "Claims") which to the extent that such Claims arise out of or are in any way caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the other, and (v) risk of loss or damage to the Aircraft will be borne by PANDI.
Additionally, in connection with the Company's policy with respect to the personal use of corporate aircraft by executives, on February 7, 2007, the Company entered into two (2) Aircraft Time Sharing Agreements with Mr. Patterson and Mr. Illig pursuant to which both Mr. Patterson and Mr. Illig may lease the aircraft from the Company for their personal use (the "Time Sharing Agreements"). Both Mr. Patterson and Mr. Illig will
Table of Contents
pay the Company for the actual expenses of each specific flight as described in FAR Part 91.501(d)(a)-(i), including the actual expense items of any "deadhead" flights, as authorized by FAR Part 91.501(d). The expenses authorized by FAR Part 91.501(d)(a)-(i) include: (a) fuel, oil, lubricants and other additives; (b) travel expenses of the crew, including food, lodging and ground transportation; (c) hangar and tie down costs away from the aircraft's base of operation; (d) insurance obtained for the specific flight; (e) landing fees, airport taxes and similar assessments; (f) customs, foreign permit and similar fees directly related to the flight; (g) in-flight food and beverages; (h) passenger ground transportation; and (i) flight planning and weather contract services.
Under the Time Sharing Agreements, the Company and flight crew retain the authority to determine which flights may be scheduled and when a flight may be canceled or changed for safety or maintenance reasons.
The Time Sharing Agreements can be terminated by either party upon thirty (30) days written notice.
As required by the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules applicable to the Company, the Company's Audit Committee of the Board of Directors approved the Aircraft Services Agreement and the Timesharing Agreements prior to the Company entering into those agreements.
The foregoing descriptions of the Aircraft Services Agreement and the Time Sharing Agreements do not purport to be a complete statement of the parties' rights and obligations under the agreements and the transactions contemplated thereby. The above descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the agreements which are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibits 10(a), 10(b) and 99.1 and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
     This Aircraft Services Agreement (hereinafter "Agreement") is made and entered into as of this 6th day of February, 2007 (the "Effective Date") by and between Rockcreek Aviation, Inc., a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business at 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, Kansas City, Missouri 64117 ("Rockcreek Aviation") and PANDI, INC., a Missouri corporation with its principal place of business at 11504 Pawnee Circle, Leawood, Kansas 66211 ("PANDI").
     WHEREAS, PANDI is the operator of an aircraft described as follows:
     (the "Aircraft"); and
     WHEREAS, Rockcreek Aviation desires to provide aviation services to PANDI pursuant to FAR Part 91;
     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants contained herein, and for good and valuable consideration, Rockcreek Aviation and PANDI agree as follows:
     This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date for a period of one (1) year, and shall automatically be renewed for additional periods of one (1) year, unless terminated by either party in accordance with Article X below (hereinafter the "Term").
1.1
     . PANDI agrees to retain Rockcreek Aviation to provide the staffing, operation and maintenance of the Aircraft to support PANDI's operation of the Aircraft pursuant to FAR Part 91.
2.1
Retention and Provision of Services
     . Rockcreek Aviation will provide PANDI with the following services in connection with the Aircraft during the Term of this Agreement:
2.2
Services
 
The services outlined in this Section 2.2, inclusive, shall hereinafter be defined as "Services."
      PANDI will pay a daily pilot/crew staffing fee as set forth in Section 7.4. PANDI shall pay to Rockcreek Aviation a monthly Aviation Services Fee in accordance with Section 7.1 below representing fees for the operational support services and general administration of this Agreement. PANDI shall also pay actual labor and parts fees for the maintenance, inspections and repairs services as set forth in Section 4.2.
2.3
Services Fees.
     . Rockcreek Aviation agrees to provide to PANDI a Chief Pilot/Flight Department Manager and one other qualified pilot. In fulfilling this obligation, Rockcreek Aviation will designate Jay New as the Chief Pilot.
3.1
FAR Part 91 Crew Assignment/Qualifications
     . In accordance with the applicable FARs, the flight crew provided by Rockcreek Aviation will exercise all of its duties and responsibilities with the highest regard for the safety of each flight conducted hereunder. PANDI specifically agrees that the flight crew, in its sole discretion, may terminate any flight, refuse to commence any flight, or take any other such action, which in the considered judgment of the assigned pilot in command is necessitated by safety considerations. PANDI agrees that no such action by the pilot in command shall create or support any liability for loss, injury, damage or delay to any customer or any other person. PANDI further agrees that Rockcreek Aviation shall not be liable for delay or failure to furnish or return the Aircraft or flight crew pursuant to this Agreement when such failure is caused by government regulation or authority, mechanical difficulty, war, civil commotion, strikes or labor disputes, terrorism, weather conditions or acts of God.
3.2
Crew Duties
     . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, the pilot in command shall have the final and complete authority to cancel any flight for any reason or condition, which in his/her judgment would compromise the safety of the flight.
3.3
Pilot in Command
     . Rockcreek Aviation shall supervise, conduct and contract for all repairs to and inspection and maintenance of the Aircraft in accordance with Rockcreek Aviation's FAA-approved maintenance program during the term of this Agreement. Rockcreek Aviation shall maintain the Aircraft to FAR Part 91 standards. No period of maintenance, preventive maintenance, or inspection shall be delayed or postponed for the purpose of scheduling the Aircraft unless said maintenance or inspection can be safely conducted at a later time in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations within the sound discretion of the assigned Pilot in Command.
4.1
Scope of Maintenance, Inspection and Repair
     . PANDI shall pay all costs and expenses incurred by Rockcreek Aviation in performing or causing to be performed all maintenance, repair, inspection and overhaul work on the Aircraft pursuant to Section 4.1 above, including but not limited to, all costs and expenses associated with new parts and accessories utilized for such work.
4.2
Maintenance, Inspection and Repair Costs
     . Rockcreek Aviation will maintain reports, records, and other data to comply with the applicable FARs in connection with repair and maintenance performed by Rockcreek Aviation or its agents or designated contractors on the Aircraft.
4.3
Records
     . PANDI or its designee shall have the right, but not the duty, to inspect the Aircraft upon reasonable notice to Rockcreek Aviation, wherever the Aircraft may then be located. Upon PANDI's notice, Rockcreek Aviation shall advise PANDI of the Aircraft's location and, within a reasonable time, shall furnish PANDI with all information, logs, documents and Rockcreek Aviation's records regarding or in respect to the Aircraft and its use, maintenance or condition.
4.4
Inspection
 
The services outlined in Sections 4.1 through 4.4, inclusive, shall hereinafter be defined as "Maintenance Services."
      Rockcreek Aviation will pay the training costs for the Chief Pilot and other qualified pilot to complete the manufacturer's recommended or approved ground and flight training course. Such training is part of the operational services set forth in Section 2.2(b) above.
5.1
Training Services.
     . PANDI has, and shall retain, operational control and possession, command and control of the Aircraft for all PANDI flights under this Agreement. During PANDI's operation of the Aircraft, PANDI shall have the right, subject to safety considerations, to use Rockcreek Aviation provided pilots and to direct such pilots as to when and where to fly. In exercising operational control PANDI shall comply with the FARs and any pertinent regulations of any country other than the United States where the Aircraft may be operated from time to time. PANDI shall operate the Aircraft in accordance with FAR Part 91.
6.1
PANDI Flights
      PANDI shall provide Rockcreek Aviation with PANDI's proposed flight schedules as far in advance of any given flight as possible, and in any case, at least 4 hours in advance of PANDI's planned departure.
6.2
Advance Notification.
     . PANDI agrees to pay to Rockcreek Aviation and Rockcreek Aviation agrees to accept as full payment eight-thousand dollars ($8,000) each month for Rockcreek Aviation's Service in accordance with Section 7.7 below.
7.1
Operational Services Fee
     . PANDI shall pay all costs and expenses incurred by Rockcreek Aviation in purchasing fuel and oil for the Aircraft in accordance with Section 7.7 below.
7.2
Fuel and Oil Costs
     . PANDI agrees to pay to Rockcreek Aviation all Maintenance Services costs as determined under Article IV above in respect to the Aircraft in accordance with Section 7.7 below.
7.3
Maintenance Services Charges
     . PANDI agrees to pay to Rockcreek Aviation eight-hundred-fifty dollars ($850) per day plus any and all reasonable lodging, transportation and all other reasonable out of pocket costs incurred by the Crew in connection with a PANDI flight or flights. Crew costs shall include, but are not limited to hotel accommodation, meals, rental cars and/or taxi fares, plus taxes applicable to them.
7.4
Crew Expenses
     . PANDI agrees to pay all landing and parking fees international landing, handling and navigation fees, hangar fees away from the Base of Operation, flight phone fees, and catering fees in connection with a PANDI flight or flights.
7.5
Part 91 Costs
,
     . PANDI agrees to pay Rockcreek Aviation for all Aircraft direct operating costs for PANDI's flights.
7.6
Aircraft Direct Operating Costs
     . Rockcreek Aviation will submit invoices to PANDI each month which reflects the flights made, Services Fee, Crew expenses, and the cost of any other services, expenses or costs payable by PANDI in accordance with this Agreement. Said invoices shall be mailed to PANDI at the address specified below or at such other address as PANDI may from time to time designate. Payment by PANDI is due thirty (30) days following the invoice date.
7.7
Invoices
 
     PANDI shall maintain insurance coverage as set forth below, in the minimum amounts and subject to the provisions set forth below, on Rockcreek Aviation's insurance policy:
8.1
     . Each party to this Agreement (hereinafter the "Indemnitor") hereby agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the other party, its officers, directors, employees, shareholders and agents (hereinafter the "Indemnitee") from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities (including, without limitation, bodily injury or death), demands, suits, judgments, causes of action, legal proceedings, whether civil or criminal, penalties, fines, other sanctions, and any costs and expenses in connection therewith, including attorneys' fees and expenses (any and all of which are hereinafter referred to as "Claims") which to the extent that such Claims arise out of or are in any way caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Indemnitors. However, in no event shall either party be liable for or have any duty for indemnification or contribution to the other party for any claimed indirect, special, incidental, consequential, or punitive damages, or for any damages consisting of damages for loss of use, revenue, profit, business opportunities and the like, or diminution of value of the Aircraft, or insurance deductible, even if the party had been advised, or knew or should have known of the possibility of such damages.
9.1
Indemnification
     . Each party to this Agreement acknowledges and agrees that: (a) the proceeds of insurance to which it is entitled; (b) its rights to indemnification from the other party under Section 9.1; and (c) its right to direct damages arising in contract from a material breach of the other party's obligations under this Agreement are the sole remedies for any damage, loss, or expense arising out of this Agreement or the services provided hereunder or contemplated hereby. Except as expressly set forth in this Section 9.2, each party waives any right to recover any damage, loss or expense arising out of this Agreement or the services provided hereunder or contemplated hereby.
9.2
Sole Remedies
 
     . The provisions of this Article IX shall survive the termination or the expiration of this Agreement.
9.3
Survival
     . Rockcreek Aviation shall forward all invoices under Section 7.7 on a monthly basis to PANDI at the following address:
10.1
Invoices
PANDI, INC. 11504 Pawnee Circle Leawood, KS 66211
     PANDI shall pay all invoices in accordance with Section 7.7 and make such payment to Rockcreek Aviation at the following address:
Rockcreek Aviation, Inc. 2800 Rockcreek Parkway North Kansas City, MO 64117
     . PANDI shall pay a finance charge on all undisputed amounts that are more than forty-five (45) days past due at a rate of interest equal to the lesser of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month or the maximum permissible legal rate. PANDI shall also reimburse Rockcreek Aviation for reasonable collection costs, including attorney's fees, relating to the collection of any such past due amounts.
10.2
Late Payment
     . Rockcreek Aviation shall have the right to set off against any undisputed amounts owed to PANDI.
10.3
Right to Offset
     Either party to this Agreement shall have the right, with or without cause, to terminate this Agreement by giving sixty (60) days written notice to the other party in accordance with Section 15.3 below. Within thirty (30) days following the termination date, Rockcreek Aviation shall make a full accounting and settle all accounts between the parties.
11.1
     Risk of loss or damage to the Aircraft shall be borne by PANDI. If, during the term of this Agreement, the Aircraft is destroyed, lost or damaged beyond repair, this Agreement shall terminate immediately.
12.1
     Rockcreek Aviation shall not be liable for any taxes incurred by reason of ownership of the Aircraft during the term of this Agreement, including personal property taxes, and all taxes incurred by reason of its operation of the Aircraft.
13.1
     Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be regarded as creating any relationship (employer/employee, joint venture, partnership) between the parties other than as set forth herein.
14.1
 
     . The Aircraft's base of operation shall be Kansas City Downtown Airport, Hangar 2, 150 Richards Road, Kansas City, Missouri, 64116 (the "Base of Operation").
15.1
Base of Operation
     . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between the parties as of its effective date and supersedes all prior or independent agreements between the parties which concern the Aircraft. Any change, modification or amendment to this Agreement must be in writing signed by both parties.
15.2
Entire Agreement
     . Any notice given by one party to the other in connection with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be sent by facsimile, courier, overnight delivery, or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the addresses listed below or to such other addresses as either party may specify to the other in writing from time to time:
15.3
Notices
Notices shall be deemed effective when delivered and shall be deemed delivered when actually received, or if earlier and whether or not received, three (3) days after it is deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the parties as set forth above.
     . Rockcreek Aviation shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws and executive orders and regulations issued pursuant thereto, including without limitation, and to the extent applicable to this Agreement, all FARs.
15.4
Compliance with laws
     . In the event that any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be termed to be invalid, unenforceable or illegal, such invalidity, unenforceability and illegality shall not affect any other provisions of this Agreement, and the Agreement shall be construed as if such invalid, unenforceable or illegal provisions had never been contained herein.
15.5
Severability
     . Exclusive of payment obligations, each party shall be relieved of its obligations hereunder in the event and to the extent that the party's performance is delayed or prevented by any cause reasonably beyond such party's control, including but not limited to, acts of God, public enemies, war, civil disorder, fire, flood, explosion, labor disputes or strikes, or any acts or order of any governmental authority.
15.6
Force Majeure
     . Rockcreek Aviation may assign this Agreement to any of its wholly-owned subsidiaries. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, their heirs, representatives and successors.
15.7
Assignment
     . During the term of this Agreement, PANDI agrees not to disclose to any person, firm or corporation or utilize for PANDI's own purposes any confidential information regarding fees, trade secrets or customer information of Rockcreek Aviation relating to the business of Rockcreek Aviation. PANDI agrees to keep
15.8
Confidentiality
 
confidential such information, and at Rockcreek Aviation's request promptly to return to Rockcreek Aviation all such confidential information. PANDI agrees that Rockcreek Aviation would be irreparably damaged if PANDI used such confidential information for its own purposes. Accordingly, PANDI agrees that its obligation to keep information confidential may be enforceable in a court of equity by injunction.
     . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one instrument.
15.9
Counterparts
     . All indemnifications, representations and warranties shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.
15.10
Survival
     . This Agreement shall be governed by, construed, interpreted and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Missouri, excluding Missouri's rules on conflict of laws that would apply the substantive law of another jurisdiction.
15.11
Governing Law
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the Effective Date.

 
Exhibit 10.2
     This Time Sharing Agreement (the Agreement), is made and entered into this 7 day of February, 2007, by and between Cerner Corporation, with a principal address of 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, North Kansas City, Missouri 64117 (Operator), and Neal L. Patterson (User).
th
     WITNESSETH, that
     WHEREAS, Operator operates that certain Hawker aircraft, manufacturer's serial number 258653 bearing the United States Registration Number N203TM (the Aircraft);
     WHEREAS, Operator employs a fully qualified flight crew to operate the Aircraft; and
     WHEREAS, Operator desires to lease said Aircraft with flight crew to User and User desires to lease said Aircraft and flight crew from Operator on a time sharing basis pursuant to Section 91.501(c)(1) of the Federal Aviation Regulations ("FARs").
     NOW THEREFORE, Operator and User declaring their intention to enter into and be bound by this Agreement, and for the good and valuable consideration set forth below, hereby covenant and agree as follows:
     1. Operator agrees to lease the Aircraft to User pursuant to the provisions of FAR 91.501(c)(1) and to provide a fully qualified flight crew for all operations on a non-continuous basis commencing on the first date set forth hereinabove and continuing unless and until terminated. Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving thirty (30) days written notice to the other party. Operator shall have the right to add or substitute aircraft of similar type, quality and equipment, and to remove aircraft from the fleet, from time to time during the term of this Agreement.
     2. User shall pay Operator for each flight conducted under this Agreement the actual expenses of each specific flight as described in FAR 91.501(d)(a)-(i), including the actual expense items of any "deadhead" flights made for User, as authorized by FAR Part 91.501(d). The expenses authorized by FAR Part 91.501(d)(a)-(i) include:
 
     3. Operator will pay all expenses related to the operation of the Aircraft when incurred, and will provide an invoice and bill User for the expenses enumerated in paragraph 2 above on the last day of the month in which any flight or flights for the account of User occur. User shall pay Operator for said expenses within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the invoice and bill therefore.
     User shall include with each payment any federal transportation excise tax due with respect to such payment, and Operator shall be responsible for collecting, reporting and remitting such tax to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
     4. User will provide Operator with requests for flight time and proposed flight schedules as far in advance of any given flight as possible. Requests for flight time and proposed flight schedules shall be made in compliance with Operator's scheduling procedures and aircraft use policies. In addition to proposed schedules and flight times, User shall provide at least the following information for each proposed flight at some time prior to scheduled departure as required by the Operator or Operator's flight crew.
     5. Operator shall pay all expenses related to the ownership and operation of the Aircraft and shall employ, pay for and provide to User a qualified flight crew for each flight undertaken under this Agreement.
 
     6. Operator shall be solely responsible for securing maintenance, preventive maintenance and required or otherwise necessary inspections on the Aircraft, and shall take such requirements into account in scheduling the Aircraft. No period of maintenance, preventive maintenance or inspection shall be delayed or postponed for the purpose of scheduling the Aircraft, unless said maintenance or inspection can be safely conducted at a later time in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and within the sound discretion of the pilot in command. The pilot in command shall have final and complete authority to cancel any flight for any reason or condition which in his/her judgment would compromise the safety of the flight.
     7. In accordance with applicable Federal Aviation Regulations, the flight crew will exercise all of its duties and responsibilities in regard to the safety of each flight conducted hereunder. User specifically agrees that the pilot in command, in his/her sole discretion, may terminate any flight, refuse to commence any flight, or take other action which in the considered judgment of the pilot in command is necessitated by considerations of safety. The parties agree that Operator shall not be liable for delay or failure to furnish the Aircraft and crew member pursuant to this Agreement when such failure is caused by government regulation or authority, mechanical difficulty, war, civil commotion, strikes or labor disputes, weather conditions, or acts of God. Operator shall have sole and exclusive authority over the scheduling of the Aircraft.
     8. Operator will use reasonable efforts to provide additional insurance coverage as User shall request, provided, however: i) Operator is not required to provide such requested coverage, and ii) that the cost of such additional insurance shall be borne by User as set forth in paragraph 2(d) hereof.
     9. Each party hereto agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the other against all losses, including costs, attorneys' fees and expenses by reason of claims by third parties for injury to or death of persons and loss of or damage to property arising out of or in any manner connected with the performance of such party's responsibilities under this Agreement or any breach by such party of any covenant or warranty made herein. Operator and User agree that in the event either party shall be liable to the other for any reason relating to this Agreement, that under no circumstances shall the damaged party be entitled to any special or consequential damages, including but not limited to damages for lost profits, incurred by the damaged party.
     10. The Operator and User agree that Operator shall not be liable to User or any other person for loss, injury, or damage occasioned by the delay or failure to furnish the Aircraft and crew pursuant to this Agreement for any reason.
     11. The risk of loss during the period when any Aircraft is operated on behalf of User under this Agreement shall remain with Operator, and Operator will retain all rights and benefits with respect to the proceeds payable under policies of hull insurance maintained by Operator that may be payable as a result of any incident or occurrence while an Aircraft is being operated on behalf of User under this Agreement. User shall be named as an additional insured on liability insurance policies maintained by Operator on the Aircraft with respect to flights conducted pursuant to this Agreement. The liability insurance policies on which User is named an additional insured shall provide that as to User coverage shall not be invalidated or adversely affected by any action or inaction, omission or misrepresentation by Operator or any other
 
person (other than User). Any hull insurance policies maintained by Operator on any Aircraft used by User under this Agreement shall include a waiver of any rights of subrogation of the insurers against User.
     12. A copy of this Agreement shall be carried in the Aircraft and available for review upon the request of the FAA on all flights conducted pursuant to this Agreement.
     13. User warrants that:
     14. Neither this Agreement nor any party's interest herein shall be assignable to any other party. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, their heirs, representatives and successors.
     15. Nothing herein shall be construed to create a partnership, joint venture, franchise, employer-employee relationship or to create any relationship of principal and agent.
     16. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Missouri (excluding the conflicts of law rules thereof).
     17. Neither Operator (nor its affiliates) makes, has made or shall be deemed to make or have made, and Operator (for itself and its affiliates) hereby disclaims, any warranty or representation, either express or implied, written or oral, with respect to any aircraft to be used hereunder or any engine or component thereof including, without limitation, any warranty as to design, compliance with specifications, quality of materials or workmanship, merchantability, fitness for any purpose, use or operation, airworthiness, safety, patent, trademark or copyright infringement or title.
     [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused the signatures of their authorized representatives to be affixed below on the day and year first above written. The persons signing below warrant their authority to sign.
     TRUTH IN LEASING STATEMENT UNDER SECTION 91.23 (FORMERLY 91.54) OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS.
     (A) CERNER CORPORATION ("OPERATOR") HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT THE AIRCRAFT HAS BEEN INSPECTED AND MAINTAINED WITHIN THE 12 MONTH PERIOD PRECEDING THE DATE OF THIS AGREEMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF FAR PART 91 AND ALL APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION THEREUNDER HAVE BEEN MET.
     (B) CERNER CORPORATION ("OPERATOR") AGREES, CERTIFIES AND KNOWINGLY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT WHEN THE AIRCRAFT IS OPERATED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, IT SHALL BE KNOWN AS, CONSIDERED, AND SHALL IN FACT BE THE OPERATOR OF THE AIRCRAFT.
     (C) THE PARTIES UNDERSTAND THAT AN EXPLANATION OF FACTORS AND PERTINENT FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS BEARING ON OPERATIONAL CONTROL CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE LOCAL FLIGHT STANDARDS DISTRICT OFFICE. OPERATOR FURTHER CERTIFIES THAT IT WILL SEND A TRUE COPY OF THIS EXECUTED AGREEMENT TO: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION, AIRCRAFT REGISTRATION BRANCH, ATTN: TECHNICAL SECTION, P. O. BOX 25724, OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, 73125, WITHIN 24 HOURS OF ITS EXECUTION, AS PROVIDED BY FAR 91.23(c)(1).
A copy of this Agreement must be carried in the Aircraft while being operated hereunder.

 
Exhibit 10.3
     This Time Sharing Agreement (the Agreement), is made and entered into this 7 day of February, 2007, by and between Cerner Corporation, with a principal address of 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, North Kansas City, Missouri 64117 (Operator), and Clifford W. Illig (User).
th
     WITNESSETH, that
     WHEREAS, Operator operates that certain Hawker aircraft, manufacturer's serial number 258653 bearing the United States Registration Number N203TM (the Aircraft);
     WHEREAS, Operator employs a fully qualified flight crew to operate the Aircraft; and
     WHEREAS, Operator desires to lease said Aircraft with flight crew to User and User desires to lease said Aircraft and flight crew from Operator on a time sharing basis pursuant to Section 91.501(c)(1) of the Federal Aviation Regulations ("FARs").
     NOW THEREFORE, Operator and User declaring their intention to enter into and be bound by this Agreement, and for the good and valuable consideration set forth below, hereby covenant and agree as follows:
     1. Operator agrees to lease the Aircraft to User pursuant to the provisions of FAR 91.501(c)(1) and to provide a fully qualified flight crew for all operations on a non-continuous basis commencing on the first date set forth hereinabove and continuing unless and until terminated. Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving thirty (30) days written notice to the other party. Operator shall have the right to add or substitute aircraft of similar type, quality and equipment, and to remove aircraft from the fleet, from time to time during the term of this Agreement.
     2. User shall pay Operator for each flight conducted under this Agreement the actual expenses of each specific flight as described in FAR 91.501(d)(a)-(i), including the actual expense items of any "deadhead" flights made for User, as authorized by FAR Part 91.501(d). The expenses authorized by FAR Part 91.501(d)(a)-(i) include:
 
     3. Operator will pay all expenses related to the operation of the Aircraft when incurred, and will provide an invoice and bill User for the expenses enumerated in paragraph 2 above on the last day of the month in which any flight or flights for the account of User occur. User shall pay Operator for said expenses within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the invoice and bill therefore.
     User shall include with each payment any federal transportation excise tax due with respect to such payment, and Operator shall be responsible for collecting, reporting and remitting such tax to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
     4. User will provide Operator with requests for flight time and proposed flight schedules as far in advance of any given flight as possible. Requests for flight time and proposed flight schedules shall be made in compliance with Operator's scheduling procedures and aircraft use policies. In addition to proposed schedules and flight times, User shall provide at least the following information for each proposed flight at some time prior to scheduled departure as required by the Operator or Operator's flight crew.
     5. Operator shall pay all expenses related to the ownership and operation of the Aircraft and shall employ, pay for and provide to User a qualified flight crew for each flight undertaken under this Agreement.
 
     6. Operator shall be solely responsible for securing maintenance, preventive maintenance and required or otherwise necessary inspections on the Aircraft, and shall take such requirements into account in scheduling the Aircraft. No period of maintenance, preventive maintenance or inspection shall be delayed or postponed for the purpose of scheduling the Aircraft, unless said maintenance or inspection can be safely conducted at a later time in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and within the sound discretion of the pilot in command. The pilot in command shall have final and complete authority to cancel any flight for any reason or condition which in his/her judgment would compromise the safety of the flight.
     7. In accordance with applicable Federal Aviation Regulations, the flight crew will exercise all of its duties and responsibilities in regard to the safety of each flight conducted hereunder. User specifically agrees that the pilot in command, in his/her sole discretion, may terminate any flight, refuse to commence any flight, or take other action which in the considered judgment of the pilot in command is necessitated by considerations of safety. The parties agree that Operator shall not be liable for delay or failure to furnish the Aircraft and crew member pursuant to this Agreement when such failure is caused by government regulation or authority, mechanical difficulty, war, civil commotion, strikes or labor disputes, weather conditions, or acts of God. Operator shall have sole and exclusive authority over the scheduling of the Aircraft.
     8. Operator will use reasonable efforts to provide additional insurance coverage as User shall request, provided, however: i) Operator is not required to provide such requested coverage, and ii) that the cost of such additional insurance shall be borne by User as set forth in paragraph 2(d) hereof.
     9. Each party hereto agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the other against all losses, including costs, attorneys' fees and expenses by reason of claims by third parties for injury to or death of persons and loss of or damage to property arising out of or in any manner connected with the performance of such party's responsibilities under this Agreement or any breach by such party of any covenant or warranty made herein. Operator and User agree that in the event either party shall be liable to the other for any reason relating to this Agreement, that under no circumstances shall the damaged party be entitled to any special or consequential damages, including but not limited to damages for lost profits, incurred by the damaged party.
     10. The Operator and User agree that Operator shall not be liable to User or any other person for loss, injury, or damage occasioned by the delay or failure to furnish the Aircraft and crew pursuant to this Agreement for any reason.
     11. The risk of loss during the period when any Aircraft is operated on behalf of User under this Agreement shall remain with Operator, and Operator will retain all rights and benefits with respect to the proceeds payable under policies of hull insurance maintained by Operator that may be payable as a result of any incident or occurrence while an Aircraft is being operated on behalf of User under this Agreement. User shall be named as an additional insured on liability insurance policies maintained by Operator on the Aircraft with respect to flights conducted pursuant to this Agreement. The liability insurance policies on which User is named an additional insured shall provide that as to User coverage shall not be invalidated or adversely affected by any action or inaction, omission or misrepresentation by Operator or any other
 
person (other than User). Any hull insurance policies maintained by Operator on any Aircraft used by User under this Agreement shall include a waiver of any rights of subrogation of the insurers against User.
     12. A copy of this Agreement shall be carried in the Aircraft and available for review upon the request of the FAA on all flights conducted pursuant to this Agreement.
     13. User warrants that:
     14. Neither this Agreement nor any party's interest herein shall be assignable to any other party. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, their heirs, representatives and successors.
     15. Nothing herein shall be construed to create a partnership, joint venture, franchise, employer-employee relationship or to create any relationship of principal and agent.
     16. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Missouri (excluding the conflicts of law rules thereof).
     17. Neither Operator (nor its affiliates) makes, has made or shall be deemed to make or have made, and Operator (for itself and its affiliates) hereby disclaims, any warranty or representation, either express or implied, written or oral, with respect to any aircraft to be used hereunder or any engine or component thereof including, without limitation, any warranty as to design, compliance with specifications, quality of materials or workmanship, merchantability, fitness for any purpose, use or operation, airworthiness, safety, patent, trademark or copyright infringement or title.
     [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused the signatures of their authorized representatives to be affixed below on the day and year first above written. The persons signing below warrant their authority to sign.
     TRUTH IN LEASING STATEMENT UNDER SECTION 91.23 (FORMERLY 91.54) OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS.
     (A) CERNER CORPORATION ("OPERATOR") HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT THE AIRCRAFT HAS BEEN INSPECTED AND MAINTAINED WITHIN THE 12 MONTH PERIOD PRECEDING THE DATE OF THIS AGREEMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF FAR PART 91 AND ALL APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION THEREUNDER HAVE BEEN MET.
     (B) CERNER CORPORATION ("OPERATOR") AGREES, CERTIFIES AND KNOWINGLY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT WHEN THE AIRCRAFT IS OPERATED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, IT SHALL BE KNOWN AS, CONSIDERED, AND SHALL IN FACT BE THE OPERATOR OF THE AIRCRAFT.
     (C) THE PARTIES UNDERSTAND THAT AN EXPLANATION OF FACTORS AND PERTINENT FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS BEARING ON OPERATIONAL CONTROL CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE LOCAL FLIGHT STANDARDS DISTRICT OFFICE. OPERATOR FURTHER CERTIFIES THAT IT WILL SEND A TRUE COPY OF THIS EXECUTED AGREEMENT TO: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION, AIRCRAFT REGISTRATION BRANCH, ATTN: TECHNICAL SECTION, P. O. BOX 25724, OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA, 73125, WITHIN 24 HOURS OF ITS EXECUTION, AS PROVIDED BY FAR 91.23(c)(1).
A copy of this Agreement must be carried in the Aircraft while being operated hereunder.


