FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20070713162607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
On July 12, 2007, Paul M. Black, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Cerner Corporation (the "Company"), submitted notice to the Company that he will retire effective August 31, 2007. On July 13, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Black's retirement. The Company stated it is not currently planning to name a new Chief Operating Officer. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is attached hereto.
     
d) Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Kelli Christman, (816) 201-0727, Allan Kells, (816) 201-2445,
MEDIA:
kelli.christman@cerner.com
INVESTORS:
allan.kells@cerner.com
Cerner's Internet Home Page:
www.cerner.com
CERNER CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER TO RETIRE
 Cerner Corp. (NASDAQ: CERN) today announced that Paul M. Black, executive vice president and chief operating officer, has decided to retire effective Aug. 31, 2007.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  July 13, 2007
"Paul has been an important part of Cerner's growth over the past 13 years", said Neal Patterson, Cerner's chairman and chief executive officer. "He leaves the company with a significant legacy, having helped create a strong client-focused leadership team that can build on Paul's accomplishments."
Black joined Cerner in 1994 as the regional vice president responsible for sales and delivery for the company's Kansas City branch. He subsequently held a series of increasingly important positions within Cerner, and was the executive responsible for U.S. sales and delivery from 2003 to 2006. Most recently, Black was the lead executive for the company's activities in two new growth areas, HealthEmployer Services and DeviceWorks, Cerner's emerging healthcare device organization. Black was promoted to executive vice president in 2000 and appointed chief operating officer in 2005.
e
Bill Wing, vice president, will continue as the executive with primary responsibility for the company's Healthe Employer Services initiatives and Bill Miller, vice president, will continue to be primarily responsible for DeviceWorks.
The company is not currently planning to name a new chief operating officer.
About Cerner
 
Cerner Corp. is taking the paper chart out of healthcare, eliminating error, variance and waste in the care process. With more than 6,000 clients worldwide, Cerner is the leading supplier of healthcare information technology. The following are trademarks of Cerner: Cerner, and Cerner's logo. (NASDAQ: CERN),
Cerner Millennium
www.cerner.com


