FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20080722162603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
          Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
On July 22, 2008, Cerner Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing, among other things, its financial results for the three month period ended June 28, 2008. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is attached hereto.
To supplement the Company's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the Company uses non-GAAP measures of net earnings and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain charges and gains. The Company also discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as booking revenue and revenue backlog (which includes contract backlog and support and maintenance backlog). These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our financial performance, and as required, are also reconciled to GAAP. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise be subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Allan Kells, (816) 201-2445, akells@cerner.com Kay Hawes, (816) 885-3560, kay.hawes@cerner.com www.cerner.com
Investor Contact:
Media Contact:
Cerner's Internet Home Page:
Cerner Corp. (NASDAQ: CERN) today announced results for the 2008 second quarter that ended June 28, delivering strong levels of bookings, earnings, and cash flow.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  July 22, 2008
Bookings in the second quarter of 2008 were $404 million. Second quarter 2007 bookings were $487 million. Second quarter 2007 bookings included $98 million related to Cerner's participation in the National Health Service (NHS) initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England and approximately $20 million of higher than expected hardware bookings. Second quarter 2008 bookings are 10 percent higher than adjusted second quarter 2007 bookings of $369 million. Second quarter revenue increased 4 percent over the year-ago period to $402.8 million.
On a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis, second quarter 2008 net earnings were $35.3 million, and diluted earnings per share were $0.42. Second quarter 2007 GAAP net earnings were $26.8 million, and diluted earnings per share were $0.32.
Adjusted second quarter 2008 net earnings were $42.5 million, compared to $29.6 million of adjusted net earnings in the second quarter of 2007. Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.51 in the second quarter of 2008 compared to $0.36 in the second quarter of 2007. Analysts' consensus estimate for second quarter 2008 adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.50.
Adjusted (non-GAAP) Earnings
Adjusted Net Earnings is not a recognized term under GAAP and should not be substituted for net earnings as a measure of the Company's performance but instead should be utilized as a supplemental measure of financial performance in evaluating our business. Following is a description of adjustments made to second quarter net earnings. For more detail, please see the accompanying schedule, titled "Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share to GAAP Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings Per Share."
Adjusted second quarter 2008 and 2007 net earnings and diluted earnings per share exclude the impact of accounting pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, which requires the expensing of stock options. The effect of accounting under SFAS 123R reduced second quarter 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $2.1 million and $0.03, respectively, and reduced second quarter 2007 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $2.7 million and $0.04, respectively.
Adjusted earnings and diluted earnings per share in the second quarter 2008 also exclude the impact of a third party supplier settlement that increased sales and client service expense by $8.0 million, decreased net earnings by $5.0 million, and decreased diluted earnings per share by $0.06.
 
During the second quarter, the Company finalized a settlement with a third party provider of software related to the use of the third party's software in the Company's remote hosting business. The settlement included compensation for use of the software for periods prior to the second quarter of 2008 as well as compensation for licenses of the software for future use for existing clients as well as additional clients through January 2009. Based on a relative value allocation of the settlement amount, the amount attributable to the utilization of software for current and prior periods is $8.0 million, which was recognized in the second quarter, and the amount attributable to the license for future use is approximately $15 million, which will be amortized ratably over the hosting period for the applicable arrangement. The Company determined that approximately $5 million of the amount expensed in the 2008 second quarter should have been recorded in prior periods. The Company determined that the effect of this adjustment on prior annual and interim periods is not material to any previously reported results.
Other Second Quarter Highlights:
"Our second quarter results demonstrate another quarter of solid execution," said Neal Patterson, Cerner co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer. "While declines in sales of hardware, a non-core part of our business, again impacted our overall revenue growth, our core business is strong, as evidenced by our strong levels of bookings, earnings growth, operating margin expansion and cash generation in the second quarter and year to date."
"Cerner's strategic worldwide footprint across healthcare is unmatched, with clients spanning acute care, ambulatory care, retail pharmacy, laboratory, pharmaceutical companies, and employers. This footprint, our unmatched depth and breadth of solutions and services, and our strategic initiatives that continue to expand Cerner's boundaries, uniquely position us for strong sustainable growth," Patterson said.
The company expects revenue in the third quarter of 2008 to be approximately $410 million to $425 million. For the year 2008, Cerner continues to expect revenue growth of approximately 10 percent over 2007.
Future Period Guidance
Cerner expects adjusted diluted earnings per share before stock options expense in the third quarter to be between $0.55 and $0.56. For the year, the Company remains comfortable with the current consensus EPS of $2.17, which is before options expense and the third party supplier settlement, plus the $0.01 over-attainment this quarter, leading to an estimate of $2.18.
The company expects SFAS No. 123R share-based compensation expense to reduce diluted earnings per share in the third quarter and full year by approximately $0.03 and $0.12, respectively.
Cerner expects new business bookings in the third quarter of 2008 to be between $370 million and $400 million.
 
Cerner will host an earnings conference call to provide additional detail on second quarter results at 3:30 p.m. CT July 22. The dial-in number for the conference call is (617) 614-3669; the passcode is Cerner. The company recommends joining the call 15 minutes early for registration. The re-broadcast of the call will be available from 5:30 p.m. CT, July 22 through 11:59 p.m. CT, July 25. The dial-in number for the re-broadcast is (888) 286-8010; the passcode is 21143886.
Earnings Conference Call
An audio webcast will be available live and archived on Cerner's Web site at www.cerner.com under the About Cerner section (click Investors, then Presentations and Webcasts).
Cerner is taking the paper chart out of healthcare, eliminating error, variance and waste in the care process. With more than 6,000 clients worldwide, Cerner is the leading supplier of healthcare information technology. The following are trademarks of Cerner: Cerner, and Cerner's logo. (NASDAQ: CERN), www.cerner.com
About Cerner
Cerner Millennium
This release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. It is important to note that the Company's performance, and actual results, financial condition or business could differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. The words "believe," "positions," "guidance," "expects," and "comfortable" or the negative of these words, variations thereof or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the possibility of product-related liabilities; potential claims for system errors and warranties; the possibility of interruption at our data centers or client support facilities; our proprietary technology may be subject to claims for infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights of others, or may be infringed or misappropriated by others; risks associated with our global operations; risks associated with our ability to effectively hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; risks associated with our recruitment and retention of key personnel; risks related to our reliance on third party suppliers; risks inherent with business acquisitions; changing political, economic and regulatory influences; government regulation; significant competition and market changes; variations in our quarterly operating results; potential inconsistencies in our sales forecasts compared to actual sales; and the volatility in the trading price of our common stock. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the Company's business is contained in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time.
 
Operating expenses for the three months ended June 28, 2008 and June 30, 2007, and the six months ended June 28, 2008 and June 30, 2007 include share-based compensation expense. The impact of this expense on net earnings is presented below:
Note 1:
ncludes the impact of a third party supplier settlement that impacted sales and client service expense by $8.0 million and net earnings by $5.0 million. During the second quarter, the Company finalized a settlement with a third party provider of software related to the use of the third party's software in the Company's remote hosting business. The settlement included compensation for use of the software for periods prior to the second quarter of 2008 as well as compensation for licenses of the software for future use for existing clients as well as additional clients through January 2009. Based on a relative value allocation of the settlement amount, the amount attributable to the utilization of software for current and prior periods is $8.0 million, which was recognized in the second quarter, and the amount attributable to the license for future use is approximately $15 million, which will be amortized ratably over the hosting period for the applicable arrangement. The Company determined that approximately $5 million of the amount expensed in the 2008 second quarter should have been recorded in prior periods. The Company determined that the effect of this adjustment on prior annual and interim periods is not material to any previously reported results.
Note 2: I
 
The presentation of Adjusted Net Earnings, a Non-GAAP financial measure, is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results and investors should be aware that non-GAAP measures have inherent limitations and should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted Net Earnings may also be different from similar non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and may not be comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation. The Company believes that Adjusted Net Earnings is important to enable investors to better understand and evaluate its ongoing operating results and allows for greater transparency in the review of its overall financial, operational and economic performance.
Note 1:
The Company provides earnings with and without stock options expense and unique items such as the third party supplier settlement because earnings excluding these items are used by management along with GAAP results to analyze its business, make strategic decisions and for management compensation purposes.
Note 2:
 


