FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20080422161925.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 22, 2008, Cerner Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing, among other things, its financial results for the three month period ended March 29, 2008. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is attached hereto.
To supplement the Company's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the Company uses non-GAAP measures of net earnings and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain charges and gains. The Company also discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as booking revenue and revenue backlog (which includes contract backlog and support and maintenance backlog). These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our financial performance, and as required, are also reconciled to GAAP. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise be subject to the liabilities of that section. The information is this Item 2.02 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 8.01     Other Events.
On April 22, 2008, the Company also announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company's Common Stock in the open market or in privately-negotiated purchase, or both, at an aggregate purchase price of up to $45 million. The timing and amount of any share repurchases will be determined by the Company's management based on market conditions and other factors. The previous Stock Repurchase Program approved by the Company's Board of Directors in 2003 has been terminated. This announcement was included in the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and attached hereto.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Allan Kells, (816) 201-2445, Kay Hawes, (816) 885-3560,
Investor Contact:
akells@cerner.com
Media Contact:
kay.hawes@cerner.com
Cerner's Internet Home Page:
www.cerner.com
Cerner Corp. (NASDAQ: CERN) today announced results for the 2008 first quarter that ended March 29, delivering strong levels of bookings, margin expansion, earnings, and cash flow.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  Apr. 22, 2008
Bookings in the first quarter of 2008 were $346.6 million. First quarter 2007 bookings were $353.0 million, including $50 million of higher than expected bookings from managed services contracts. First quarter 2008 bookings are 14 percent higher than adjusted first quarter 2007 bookings of $303.0 million. First quarter revenue increased 5 percent over the year-ago period to $384.8 million, with good growth in software, managed services, and support revenue being somewhat offset by declines in hardware revenue.
On a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis, first quarter 2008 net earnings were $36.8 million, and diluted earnings per share were $0.44. First quarter 2007 GAAP net earnings were $27.7 million, and diluted earnings per share were $0.34.
Adjusted first quarter 2008 net earnings were $39.1 million, which is 30 percent higher than the $30.1 million of adjusted net earnings in the first quarter of 2007. Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.47 in the first quarter of 2008 compared to $0.36 in the first quarter of 2007. Analysts' consensus estimate for first quarter 2008 adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.44.
Adjusted (non-GAAP) Earnings
Adjusted Net Earnings is not a recognized term under GAAP and should not be substituted for net earnings as a measure of the Company's performance but instead should be utilized as a supplemental measure of financial performance in evaluating our business. Following is a description of adjustments made to fourth quarter net earnings. For more detail, please see the accompanying schedule, titled "Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share to GAAP Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings Per Share."
Adjusted first quarter 2008 and 2007 net earnings and diluted earnings per share exclude the impact of accounting pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, which requires the expensing of stock options. The effect of accounting under SFAS 123R reduced first quarter 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $2.2 million and $0.03, respectively, and reduced first quarter 2007 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $2.4 million and $0.03, respectively.
 
Other First Quarter Highlights:
"We are pleased with our results in the first quarter," said Neal Patterson, Cerner co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer. "While declines in revenue from hardware sales, a non-core element of our business, continue to impact our overall revenue growth, our fundamentals remain sound, as evidenced by the strong margin expansion, earnings growth and cash flow growth we delivered this quarter.
"We believe Cerner offers a significant value proposition to healthcare, the largest segment of our economy. And the substantial value of the large and strategic client base we have built over the past 29 years, coupled with our strategic initiatives that are expanding our boundaries to address a much bigger portion of healthcare, position Cerner for another wave of strong growth," Patterson said.
The company expects revenue in the second quarter of 2008 to be approximately $390 million to $405 million. For the year 2008, Cerner expects revenue growth of approximately 10 percent over 2007.
Future Period Guidance
Cerner expects adjusted diluted earnings per share before stock options expense in the second quarter to be between $0.50 and $0.51. For the year 2008, Cerner continues to expect adjusted diluted earnings per share before stock options expense to grow more than 20 percent and is therefore comfortable with the previous consensus of $2.14 per share plus the $0.03 cent over attainment in the first quarter, resulting in a full-year estimate of $2.17.
The company expects SFAS No. 123R share-based compensation expense to reduce diluted earnings per share in the second quarter and full year by approximately $0.03 and $0.12 to $0.13, respectively.
Cerner expects new business bookings in the second quarter of 2008 to be between $370 million and $400 million.
Cerner also announced today that its board of directors has approved a stock repurchase program, authorizing the repurchase of up to $45 million of common stock. At current prices, the Company believes the repurchase of stock is a good use of funds. The Company plans to execute this program by repurchasing shares from time to time in the open market, by block purchase, or possibly through other transactions managed by broker-dealers. Based on today's closing price, approximately 1.1 million shares could be repurchased if the repurchase program is fully exercised.
Share Repurchase Program
 
Cerner will host an earnings conference call to provide additional detail on first quarter results at 3:30 p.m. CT April 22. The dial-in number for the conference call is (617) 213-8834; the passcode is Cerner. The company recommends joining the call 15 minutes early for registration. The re-broadcast of the call will be available from 5:30 p.m. CT, April 22 through 11:59 p.m. CT, April 25. The dial-in number for the re-broadcast is (617) 801-6888; the passcode is 95203537. An audio webcast will be available live and archived on Cerner's Web site at www.cerner.com under the About Cerner section (click Investors, then Presentations and Webcasts).
Earnings Conference Call
Cerner is taking the paper chart out of healthcare, eliminating error, variance and waste in the care process. With more than 6,000 clients worldwide, Cerner is the leading supplier of healthcare information technology. The following are trademarks of Cerner: Cerner, and Cerner's logo. (NASDAQ: CERN), www.cerner.com
About Cerner
Cerner Millennium
This release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. It is important to note that the Company's performance, and actual results, financial condition or business could differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. The words "believe," "positions," "guidance," "expects," and "comfortable" or the negative of these words, variations thereof or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the possibility of product-related liabilities; potential claims for system errors and warranties; the possibility of interruption at our data centers or client support facilities; our proprietary technology may be subject to claims for infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights of others, or may be infringed or misappropriated by others; risks associated with our global operations; risks associated with our ability to effectively hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; risks associated with our recruitment and retention of key personnel; risks related to our reliance on third party suppliers; risks inherent with business acquisitions; changing political, economic and regulatory influences; government regulation; significant competition and market changes; variations in our quarterly operating results; potential inconsistencies in our sales forecasts compared to actual sales; and the volatility in the trading price of our common stock. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the Company's business is contained in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time.
 
 
Operating expenses for the three months ended March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007 include share-based compensation expense. The impact of this expense on net earnings is presented below:
Note 1:
 
The presentation of Adjusted Net Earnings, a Non-GAAP financial measure, is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results and investors should be aware that non-GAAP measures have inherent limitations and should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted Net Earnings may also be different from similar non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and may not be comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation. The Company believes that Adjusted Net Earnings is important to enable investors to better understand and evaluate its ongoing operating results and allows for greater transparency in the review of its overall financial, operational and economic performance.
Note 1:
The Company provides earnings with and without stock options expense because earnings excluding this expense are used by management along with GAAP results to analyze our business, make strategic decisions and for management compensation purposes.
Note 2:


