FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20090729161243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 29, 2009, Cerner Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing, among other things, its financial results for the six month period ended July 4, 2009. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is attached hereto.
To supplement the Company's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the Company uses non-GAAP measures of net earnings and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain charges and gains. The Company also discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as booking revenue and revenue backlog (which includes contract backlog and support and maintenance backlog). These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our financial performance, and as required, are also reconciled to GAAP. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise be subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Allan Kells, (816) 201-2445, Sarah Bond, (816) 885-8020,
Investor Contact:
akells@cerner.com
Media Contact:
sarah.bond@cerner.com
Cerner's Internet Home Page:
www.cerner.com
Cerner Corp. (NASDAQ: CERN) today announced results for the 2009 second quarter that ended July 4, 2009, delivering strong levels of bookings, earnings and cash flow.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  July 29, 2009 
Bookings in the second quarter of 2009 were $394.0 million. Second quarter revenue was $403.8 million, which is flat over the year-ago period.
On a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis, second quarter 2009 net earnings were $43.7 million, and diluted earnings per share were $0.52. Second quarter 2008 GAAP net earnings were $35.3 million, and diluted earnings per share were $0.42.
Adjusted (non-GAAP) Earnings
Adjusted second quarter 2009 net earnings were $46.0 million, compared to $42.5 million of adjusted net earnings in the second quarter of 2008. Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.55 in the second quarter of 2009 compared to $0.51 in the second quarter of 2008. Analysts' consensus estimate for second quarter 2009 adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.55.
Adjusted Net Earnings is not a recognized term under GAAP and should not be substituted for net earnings as a measure of the Company's performance but instead should be utilized as a supplemental measure of financial performance in evaluating our business. Following is a description of adjustments made to second quarter net earnings. For more detail, please see the accompanying schedule, titled "Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share to GAAP Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings Per Share."
Adjusted second quarter 2009 and 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share exclude the impact of accounting pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, which requires the expensing of stock options. The effect of accounting under SFAS 123R reduced second quarter 2009 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $2.3 million and $0.03, respectively, and reduced second quarter 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $2.2 million and $0.03, respectively.
Second quarter 2008 adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude the impact of a third party supplier settlement. The settlement reduced second quarter 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $5.0 million and $0.06, respectively.
Other Second Quarter Highlights:
 
"We delivered good earnings and cash flow performance in the second quarter despite the economy continuing to have an impact on our revenue levels," said Neal Patterson, Cerner co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer. "We continue to believe the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) provisions in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) represent a substantial opportunity for Cerner in coming years. And the investment from the ARRA could create the level of systemic change in the U.S. healthcare system that will improve safety and quality while also saving our nation hundreds of billions of dollars annually," Patterson said.
Future Period Guidance
Cerner currently expects:
Earnings Conference Call
Cerner will host an earnings conference call to provide additional detail on second quarter results at 3:30 p.m. CT on July 29. The dial-in number for the conference call is (617) 213-8844; the passcode is Cerner. The company recommends joining the call 15 minutes early for registration. The re-broadcast of the call will be available from 5:30 p.m. CT, July 29 through 11:59 p.m. CT, Aug. 1. The dial-in number for the re-broadcast is (617) 801-6888; the passcode is 85120678.
An audio webcast will be available live and archived on Cerner's Web site at www.cerner.com under the About Cerner section (click Investors, then Presentations and Webcasts).
About Cerner
Cerner is transforming healthcare by eliminating error, variance and waste for healthcare providers and consumers around the world. Cerner solutions optimize processes for healthcare organizations ranging in size from single-doctor practices, to health systems, to entire countries, for the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, and for the healthcare commerce system. These solutions are licensed by more than 8,000 facilities around the world, including approximately 2,100 hospitals; 3,300 physician practices covering more than 30,000 physicians; 500 ambulatory facilities, such as laboratories, ambulatory centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics and surgery centers; 600 home-health facilities; and 1,500 retail pharmacies. The following are trademarks of Cerner: Cerner and Cerner's logo. Nasdaq: CERN. For more information about Cerner, please visit our Web site at www.cerner.com.
This release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. It is important to note that the Company's performance, and actual results, financial condition or business
 
could differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. The words "believe," "opportunity," "could," " "guidance," and "expects" or the negative of these words, variations thereof or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the possibility of product-related liabilities; potential claims for system errors and warranties; the possibility of interruption at our data centers or client support facilities; our proprietary technology may be subject to claims for infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights of others, or may be infringed or misappropriated by others; risks associated with our non-U.S. operations; risks associated with our ability to effectively hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; risks associated with our recruitment and retention of key personnel; risks related to our reliance on third party suppliers; risks inherent with business acquisitions; changing political, economic and regulatory influences; government regulation; significant competition and market changes; the current adverse financial market environment and uncertainty in global economic conditions; variations in our quarterly operating results; potential inconsistencies in our sales forecasts compared to actual sales; and the volatility in the trading price of our common stock. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the Company's business is contained in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time.
 
Note 1: Operating expenses for the three months ended July 4, 2009 and June 28, 2008 and the six months ended July 4, 2009 and June 28, 2008 include share-based compensation expense. The impact of this expense on net earnings is presented below:
 
Includes the impact of the third party supplier settlement reported in the second quarter of 2008.
Note 2:
 
The presentation of Adjusted Net Earnings, a Non-GAAP financial measure, is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results and investors should be aware that non-GAAP measures have inherent limitations and should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted Net Earnings may also be different from similar non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and may not be comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation. The Company believes that Adjusted Net Earnings is important to enable investors to better understand and evaluate its ongoing operating results and allows for greater transparency in the review of its overall financial, operational and economic performance.
Note 1:
The Company provides earnings with and without stock options expense and unique items such as the third party supplier settlement because earnings excluding these items are used by management along with GAAP results to analyze its business, make strategic decisions and for management compensation purposes.
Note 2:
 


