FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20090406163614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 5.02(e) Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On March 31, 2009, Cerner Corporation (the "Company") entered into Executive Performance Agreements with its executive officers for the 2009 fiscal year pursuant to the Company's Section 162(m) Performance-Based Compensation Plan (the "162(m) Plan"). The Executive Performance Agreements entered into with the Company's Section 16 officers implement performance metrics and target bonus levels as previously approved by the 162(m) Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
The 162(m) Plan is an incentive-based compensation plan, designed to provide a meaningful incentive on both a quarterly and annual basis to key associates and executives of the Company and to motivate them to assist the Company in achieving ambitious and attainable short-term goals. Under the executive feature of the Plan, for which the Company's Section 16 officers are eligible, the 162(m) Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee establishes performance metrics prior to or at the beginning of the performance period and for which measurement of the achievement of such targets can be, and are, determined under pre-established objective formulas.
Individual Executive Performance Agreements are entered into with each of the Company's Section 16 officers, including its named executive officers (NEOs), pursuant to the 162(m) Plan. The material terms of the 2009 Executive Performance Agreements include: i) Target Bonus Levels for each of the NEOs; ii) a 2009 supplemental performance-based cash incentive opportunity amount; iii) quarterly and annual performance metrics for each of the NEOs; iv) incentive compensation payments based on individual Performance Factor ratings; v) eligibility requirements; and, vi) adjustment rights for the Company to adjust incentive payments downward and recover payments in whole or in part based on certain factors.
The 2009 performance metrics for the Company's NEOs will be based solely on achievement of earnings per share targets.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Form of 2009 Executive Performance Agreement, which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
        
c)
Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Plan Metrics
Your annual Target Bonus Level (TBL) is $Total_TBL and your 2009 supplemental performance-based cash incentive opportunity (SIO) is $Total_SIO
Your Total Opportunity (TBL + SIO) will be based on attainment of the following Performance Metric:
Depending on whether the achievement of the Performance Metric is at, below or above the target metric amount, your calculated Total Opportunity earned will be increased or decreased in accordance with the table set forth below. This calculated Total Opportunity incentive payment amount, whether or not adjusted based on the Attainment % of the Performance Metric, may also be reduced depending on your quarterly and annual Performance Factor (PF).
Maximum Payout
If the established Performance Metric is achieved above the target metric amount, you may be eligible to be paid up to 140% of your TBL and SIO as set forth in the table below. In addition, if at least the minimum payout Attainment % of the Performance Metric is achieved, you may be eligible to be paid up to an additional 25% of your TBL only (not your SIO), if you receive a PF rating of "Outstanding" or "Distinguished". If you receive a PF other than "Outstanding" or "Distinguished," or the percentage bonus amounts for the "Outstanding" or "Distinguished" categories is determined to be less than 25%, you will receive a lesser amount (between 0 and 25% of your TBL only). Even if you receive a PF rating of "Outstanding" or "Distinguished," you may not receive any payment other than the Payout % of your Total Opportunity indicated in the table below based on the actual Attainment % of the Performance Metric achieved.
Maximum Payout Reduction Based on Performance Factor
You will receive a quarterly and an annual PF rating determined by your direct manager, which rating may affect the Total Opportunity incentive payment calculation as set forth below.
A PF rating of "Needs Development" or "Unacceptable" for any quarter or for the year may result in a 0-100% reduction of your initial calculated Total Opportunity incentive payment. If you receive a "Highly Valued" rating for any quarter or for the year, you will only receive a payment equal to the applicable Payout % (as set forth above) of your Total Opportunity. If the minimum payout Attainment % of Performance Metric is achieved and you receive an annual PF of "Outstanding" or ""Distinguished," you may receive a PF adjustment equal to 0-25% of your TBL only, but in no event shall your total payout exceed $MXP (your maximum payout). Any reductions in calculated TBL or SIO incentive payments resulting from a PF rating may not be earned back.
Cerner Corporation. All rights reserved. This document contains Cerner confidential and/or proprietary information which may not be reproduced or transmitted without the express written consent of Cerner.
Page 1
 
Payment Terms, Schedule and Criteria
Terms
Payment for Y Timing Code Metrics
Payment for cumulative YTD metrics (Y Timing Code) will be calculated quarterly based on approved quarterly targets that build cumulatively to a full-year target. For each of the first three quarters of the year, the Associate will be eligible to be paid 15% of the Associate's annual TBL opportunity based on these metrics. At year-end, the remainder of the Associate's incentive will be calculated based on the full-year targets.
Payment for A Timing Code Metrics
Payment for the 2009 supplemental performance-based cash incentive opportunity (A Timing Code) will be calculated only at the close of Cerner's fiscal year-end.
Timing Code definitions of specific payment timing are located in the CPP Glossary located on MyCerner.
Changes to an Associate's TBL or SIO, based on any compensation adjustments, will be reflected in payment calculations on a pro-rata basis for the appropriate quarters. However, in no event may the TBL or SIO of a Covered Executive (as defined in the Cerner's 162(m) Plan) change after the initial 162(m) Plan metrics and Covered Executive's eligible performance compensation opportunity are established by the Compensation Committee.
The year-end calculation of payments will not affect amounts earned for previous quarters; however, the actual PF adjustment, if applicable, will apply to TBL and SIO incentives earned for the full year.
Corrections to prior period payments may be made and applied to current period payments earned to ensure accurate incentive payments.
Timing
Payment of earned TBL will be made approximately sixty (60) days after the end of a quarter in which they are earned. SIO is not earned until February 28, 2010 and eligible associates must be employed by Cerner through this date, any earned amounts will be paid within thirty (30) days of the date earned.
Criteria
Other Considerations
Cerner Corporation. All rights reserved. This document contains Cerner confidential and/or proprietary information which may not be reproduced or transmitted without the express written consent of Cerner.
Page 2
 
Cerner Corporation. All rights reserved. This document contains Cerner confidential and/or proprietary information which may not be reproduced or transmitted without the express written consent of Cerner.
Page 3
 
Capitalized terms in this Agreement have the meanings set forth in the CPP Glossary or the contents of this document.
Cerner Corporation. All rights reserved. This document contains Cerner confidential and/or proprietary information which may not be reproduced or transmitted without the express written consent of Cerner.
Page 4


