FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20090210161707.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 10, 2009, Cerner Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing, among other things, its financial results for the three and 12 month periods ended January 3, 2009. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is attached hereto.
To supplement the Company's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the Company uses non-GAAP measures of net earnings and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain charges and gains. The Company also discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as bookings revenue and revenue backlog (which includes contract backlog and support and maintenance backlog). These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our financial performance, and as required, are also reconciled to GAAP. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise be subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Allan Kells, (816) 201-2445, Kay Hawes, (816) 885-3560,
Investor Contact:
akells@cerner.com
Media Contact:
kay.hawes@cerner.com
Cerner's Internet Home Page:
www.cerner.com
Cerner Corp. (NASDAQ: CERN) today announced results for the 2008 fourth quarter that ended January 3, 2009, delivering strong levels of revenue, earnings and cash flow.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  February 10, 2009 
Bookings in the fourth quarter of 2008 were $404.9 million and were near the record level of $406.6 million in the fourth quarter 2007 bookings. Fourth quarter revenue increased 18 percent over the year-ago period to $465.7 million.
On a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis, fourth quarter 2008 net earnings were $71.5 million, and diluted earnings per share were $0.86. Fourth quarter 2007 GAAP net earnings were $41.3 million, and diluted earnings per share were $0.49.
Adjusted (non-GAAP) Earnings
Adjusted fourth quarter 2008 net earnings were $53.6 million, compared to $43.3 million of adjusted net earnings in the fourth quarter of 2007. Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.65 in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to $0.52 in the fourth quarter of 2007. Analysts' consensus estimate for fourth quarter 2008 adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.61.
Adjusted Net Earnings is not a recognized term under GAAP and should not be substituted for net earnings as a measure of the Company's performance but instead should be utilized as a supplemental measure of financial performance in evaluating our business. Following is a description of adjustments made to fourth quarter net earnings. For more detail, please see the accompanying schedule, titled "Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share to GAAP Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings Per Share."
Adjusted fourth quarter 2008 and 2007 net earnings and diluted earnings per share exclude the impact of accounting pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, which requires the expensing of stock options. The effect of accounting under SFAS 123R reduced fourth quarter 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $2.7 million and $0.03, respectively, and reduced fourth quarter 2007 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $2.6 million and $0.03, respectively.
Adjusted net earnings also excludes margin of $28.6 million related to the Company's contract in London as part of the National Health Services (NHS) initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England. This represents a one-time catch up resulting from a change in accounting estimate and the ability to separate the support services element of the contract. The after tax effect of this item increased fourth quarter 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $20.6 million and $0.24, respectively.
 
Other Fourth Quarter Highlights:
"We are pleased with our fourth quarter and full-year 2008 results, which reflect good execution in a challenging economic environment," said Neal Patterson, Cerner co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer. "We delivered solid bookings, revenue and earnings, and record levels of cash flow."
"The large size and geographic diversity of our client base and the deep strategic relationships with those clients contributed to our ability to deliver solid results in a difficult environment. Cerner also benefits from a depth and breadth of solutions and services that help healthcare providers address the increasing complexity of delivering safe, efficient, and high-quality care. As a result, while the financial crisis may continue to have some impact on healthcare, we are cautiously optimistic that we will continue to generate solid results. In addition, with the Obama administration focused on healthcare reform and recognizing healthcare IT as a necessary component of reform, Cerner is well positioned to play a role in the transformation of healthcare envisioned in those initiatives," Patterson said.
Future Period Guidance
Cerner currently expects:
Earnings Conference Call
Cerner will host an earnings conference call to provide additional detail on fourth quarter results at 3:30 p.m. CT Feb. 10. The dial-in number for the conference call is (617) 614-3472; the passcode is Cerner. The company recommends joining the call 15 minutes early for registration. The re-broadcast of the call will be available from approximately 5:30 p.m. CT, Feb. 10 through 11:59 p.m. CT, Feb. 13. The dial-in number for the re-broadcast is (617) 801-6888; the passcode is 32724776.
An audio webcast will be available live and archived on Cerner's Web site at www.cerner.com under the About Cerner section (click Investors, then Presentations and Webcasts).
 
About Cerner
Cerner is taking the paper chart out of healthcare, eliminating error, variance and waste in the care process. With more than 6,000 clients worldwide, Cerner is the leading supplier of healthcare information technology. The following are trademarks of Cerner: Cerner and Cerner's logo. NASDAQ: CERN. For more information about Cerner, please visit our Web site at .
www.cerner.com
This release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. It is important to note that the Company's performance, and actual results, financial condition or business could differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. The words "believe," "ability to continue," "guidance," and "expects" or the negative of these words, variations thereof or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the possibility of product-related liabilities; potential claims for system errors and warranties; the possibility of interruption at our data centers or client support facilities; our proprietary technology may be subject to claims for infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights of others, or may be infringed or misappropriated by others; risks associated with our global operations; risks associated with our ability to effectively hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; risks associated with our recruitment and retention of key personnel; risks related to our reliance on third party suppliers; risks inherent with business acquisitions; changing political, economic and regulatory influences; government regulation; significant competition and market changes; variations in our quarterly operating results; potential inconsistencies in our sales forecasts compared to actual sales; and the volatility in the trading price of our common stock. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the Company's business is contained in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time.
 
Operating expenses for the fourth quarter and year ended 2008, and the fourth quarter and year ended 2007 include share-based compensation expense. The impact of this expense on net earnings is presented below:
Note 1:
Includes the impact of the third party supplier settlement reported in the second quarter of 2008.
Note 2:
Includes margin of $28.6 million related to the Company's contract in London as part of the National Health Services (NHS) initiative to automate clinical processes and digitize medical records in England. This represents a one-time catch-up resulting from a change in accounting estimate and the ability to separate the support services element of the contract. The after tax effect of this item increased fourth quarter 2008 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $20.6 million and $0.24, respectively.
Note 3:
Includes a research and development write-off related to the . In connection with production and delivery of the , the Company reviewed the accounting treatment for the line of devices and determined that $8.6 million of research & development activities for the that should have been expensed were incorrectly capitalized. The impact of this charge is a $5.4 million decrease, net of $3.2 million tax benefit, in net earnings and a decrease to diluted earnings per share of $.06 in the full year ended 2007. Of the $5.4 million net write-off, $2.9 million, or $.03 of diluted earnings per share, is included in the fourth quarter of 2007, with $2.1 million of this amount related to periods prior to 2007. The remaining $2.5 million of net write-off relates to the first nine months of 2007 and was not previously included in the results of operations for those periods. The impact of these errors is not material to the previously reported 2007 periods.
Note 4:
RxStation
RxStation
RxStation
RxStation
Includes a $5.4 million tax benefit related to the over-expensing of state income taxes, which resulted in an increase to diluted earnings per share of $.06 in the full year ended 2007. Of the $5.4 million tax benefit, $3.8 million, or $.04 of diluted earnings per share, is included in the fourth quarter of 2007, with $3.1 million of this amount related to periods prior to 2007. The remaining $1.6 million tax benefit relates to the first nine months of 2007 and was not previously included in the results of operations for those periods. The impact of these errors is not material to the previously reported 2007 periods.
Note 5:
Includes a $4.0 million tax expense primarily related to the Company not recording a tax expense to reduce deferred tax assets to reflect a change in a foreign tax rate resulting from a law that was enacted in the third quarter of 2007. The impact of this error is a decrease to net earnings of $4.0 million and to diluted earnings per share of $.05 in the full year ended 2007. Of the $4.0 million expense, $.4 million, or $.01 of diluted earnings per share, is included in the fourth quarter of 2007. The remaining $3.6 million tax expense relates to the third quarter of 2007 and was not previously included in the results of operations for that period. The impact of the error is not material to the previously reported 2007 period.
Note 6:
Includes an adjustment to correct the amounts previously reported for the second quarter of 2007 for a previously disclosed out-of-period tax item relating to foreign net operating losses. The effect of this adjustment increases tax expense for the full year ended 2007, by $4.2 million. The impact of this error is not material to previously reported periods.
Note 7:
 
The presentation of Adjusted Net Earnings, a Non-GAAP financial measure, is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results and investors should be aware that non-GAAP measures have inherent limitations and should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted Net Earnings may also be different from similar non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and may not be comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation. The Company believes that Adjusted Net Earnings is important to enable investors to better understand and evaluate its ongoing operating results and allows for greater transparency in the review of its overall financial, operational and economic performance.
Note 1:
The Company provides earnings with and without stock options expense and unique items such as the one-time margin catch-up, significant unusual tax benefits and the research and development write-off because earnings excluding these items are used by management along with GAAP results to analyze its business, make strategic decisions and for management compensation purposes.
Note 2:
 


