FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20100122185024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On January 19, 2010, Cerner Corporation ("Cerner") entered into an Interparty Agreement (the "Interparty Agreement") with Kansas Unified Development, LLC ("Developer") and OnGoal, LLC ("OnGoal"). The Interparty Agreement was entered into in connection with Cerner's intended development of an office campus in the Village West development in Kansas City, Kansas (the "Office Campus"), described in Item 8.01, below.
     The Interparty Agreement provides that Developer and OnGoal will be responsible for the repayment of:
     The Interparty Agreement further provides that Developer and OnGoal will indemnify and hold Cerner harmless from and against any and all losses, costs, expenses, penalties and damages arising as a result of (a) Developer's failure to pay any sum that it has agreed to pay, or (b) Developer's breach of any agreement with Cerner which creates an obligation on the part of Cerner for which Developer has agreed to be responsible.
     In connection with the development, Developer has acquired the right to place soil on the real property to be acquired by Cerner to be developed into the Office Campus. The Interparty Agreement provides that Developer will assume responsibility for the deposit of soil on the property and will indemnify and hold Cerner harmless for any environmental costs and liabilities resulting from Developer's use of the property or for the presence of hazardous substances on the property.
     The Interparty Agreement further provides that within 30 days of the date that the terms and conditions of the Workforce Agreement are satisfied, such that neither the Inducement Repayment Amount nor the MPI Repayment Amount are due, Developer or OnGoal will pay Cerner a success fee of $4.0 million with respect to construction of the Office Campus.
     OnGoal is the owner of the Kansas City Wizards professional soccer club which intends to utilize the Stadium Development described in Item 8.01, below. Developer is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kansas Stadium Partners, Inc. ("Kansas Stadium Partners"). OnGoal and Kansas Stadium Partners are controlled by Neal Patterson, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Cerner, and Cliff Illig, Vice Chairman of Cerner.
     The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Interparty Agreement which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On January 19, 2010, Cerner entered into an agreement with the Unified Government of Wyandotte County/Kansas City, Kansas to accept the transfer of a parcel of land intended to be the site of the development of an office campus in the Village West development in Kansas City, Kansas. The purchase price for the land will be paid by Developer. On January 20, 2010, Cerner entered into a Workforce Agreement with the Kansas Department of Commerce, which contains incentives, as well as
 
certain repayment obligations, some of which are described above in Item 1.01. On January 19, 2010, Cerner entered into the Interparty Agreement described above in Item 1.01. These transactions are the first step in a series of transactions which are expected to involve both the development of the Office Campus and an 18,000 seat, multi-sport stadium and related recreational athletic complex (the "Stadium Development").
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
     THIS INTERPARTY AGREEMENT (the "") is entered into as of January 19, 2010 by and between , a Kansas limited liability company (""), OnGoal, LLC, a Kansas limited liability company ("") and , a Delaware corporation ("").
Agreement
Kansas Unified Development, LLC
Developer
OnGoal
Cerner Corporation
Cerner
     WHEREAS, Developer, the Unified Government of Wyandotte County/Kansas City, Kansas, a municipal corporation (the ""), and Zimmer Real Estate Services, Inc., a Missouri corporation (""), have entered into that certain Multi-Sport Stadium Specific Stadium SVA, dated January 19, 2010 (the ""), pursuant to which Developer is to develop, among other things, a multi-sport stadium (the "") and youth soccer fields in the City of Kansas City, Wyandotte County, Kansas (the ""), a diagram of which Development is attached hereto as ;
UG
Zimmer
SVA
Stadium
Development
Exhibit A
     WHEREAS, a certain portion of the Development is to be developed as an office campus, which is located as specifically described on , attached hereto (the ""), which the Developer arranged to be transferred to Cerner (the "");
Exhibit B
Property
Office Campus
     WHEREAS, the SVA, and that certain the Land Transfer and Specific Venture Agreement dated January 19, 2010 between Developer, Cerner, UG and Zimmer (the ""), each contain certain requirements to provide full time equivalent employment positions ("") within the Office Campus, upon a schedule set forth therein (the ");
Transfer Agreement
FTEs
FTE Requirements
     WHEREAS, Cerner has entered into that certain Workforce Services Training Agreement, dated January 20, 2010, by and between the Kansas Department of Commerce (the "") and Cerner (the "");
State
Workforce Agreement
     WHEREAS, the Workforce Agreement contains incentives, as well as three distinct repayment obligations that may arise as a result of a failure to meet certain job and payroll thresholds;
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the Workforce Agreement, if the UG issues STAR Bonds (as defined in the SVA) for any purpose relating to the Development, and Cerner fails to request any MPI Payments (as defined in the Workforce Agreement) on or prior to January 1, 2012, Cerner shall be required to pay to the State an Inducement Repayment Amount (as defined in the Workforce Agreement);
     WHEREAS, the Workforce Agreement contains provisions by which Cerner is required to create 4,500 New Jobs (as defined in the Workforce Agreement) within the Office Campus on or before the Job Commitment Date (as defined in the Workforce Agreement), and the consequence for failing to produce the required number of New Jobs on or before the Job Commitment Date is that Cerner shall pay to the State an MPI Repayment Amount (as defined in the Workforce Agreement);
 
     WHEREAS, the Workforce Agreement provides that if, by the Expiration Date (as defined in Workforce Agreement), Cerner fails to create Kansas state income tax withholdings within the Office Campus (the "") in the amount of the Gross Funded Cost (approximately $64,864,554), then Cerner shall be required to pay to the State the Withholding Tax Repayment Amount (as defined in the Workforce Agreement). The Withholding Tax Repayment Amount, the Inducement Repayment Amount, and the MPI Repayment Amount shall be referred to herein collectively as the "");
Withholdings
Repayment Amounts
     WHEREAS, the enforcement and payment of the MPI Repayment Amount and the Withholding Tax Penalty are cumulative pursuant to the terms of the Workforce Agreement;
     WHEREAS, Cerner and Developer desire to set forth the terms herein pursuant to which the parties shall agree on the payment of the Penalties, as well as any other terms and provisions in connection therewith.
     NOW THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the Premises, Cerner's agreement to enter into the Land Transfer Agreement and construct the Office Campus, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
     1. . Cerner and Developer shall be responsible for the payment of Repayment Amounts as set forth below:
Obligations for Penalties
     a. . In the event that any Inducement Repayment Amount is incurred, it shall be the obligation of Developer to pay such Inducement Repayment Amount on behalf of Cerner, as and when such amount is due pursuant to the terms of the Workforce Agreement.
Inducement Repayment Amount
     b. . In the event that any MPI Repayment Amount is incurred, it shall be the obligation of Developer to pay such MPI Repayment Amount on behalf of Cerner, as and when such amount is due pursuant to the terms of the Workforce Agreement.
MPI Repayment Amount
     c. . In the event that any Withholding Tax Repayment Amount is incurred, it shall be the obligation of Cerner to pay such Withholding Tax Repayment Amount.
Withholding Tax Penalty
     d. . In the event that Developer does not pay the Inducement Repayment Amount or the MPI Repayment Amount, as and when due, it shall be the obligation of OnGoal to pay such amount on behalf of Developer.
OnGoal Obligation
     2. . Developer and OnGoal hereby agree to indemnify and hold Cerner harmless from and against any and all losses, costs, expenses, penalties, and damages arising as a result of: (a) Developer's failure to pay any sum that is the responsibility of Cerner, or is attributable to Cerner's construction of the Office Campus or employment of FTEs, but for which Developer has agreed to be responsible, either hereunder or pursuant to the SVA, Transfer Agreement, Workforce Agreement, or otherwise; or, (b) Developer's breach of any agreement to which Cerner, Developer or OnGoal is a party (including this Agreement) and which breach
Hold Harmless
 
creates an obligation on the part of Cerner, at law, equity or otherwise, to make any payment or become liable for any amount, for which Developer has agreed to be responsible, either hereunder or pursuant to the SVA, Transfer Agreement, Workforce Agreement, or otherwise.
     3. . Pursuant to that certain License Agreement, dated January 20, 2010, by and between Developer and the UG, Developer has the right to place soil on the Property, pursuant to the terms thereof. Developer hereby agrees that by depositing soil on the Property, Developer shall assume responsibility for the costs of any remediation of any environmental conditions upon the Property. Further, Developer shall not store, locate, generate, produce, process, treat, transport, incorporate, discharge, emit, release, deposit or dispose of any Hazardous Substance in, upon, under, over or from the Property in violation of any Environmental Regulation; shall not permit any Hazardous Substance to be stored, located, generated, produced, processed, treated, transported, incorporated, discharged, emitted, released, deposited, disposed of or to escape therein, thereupon, thereunder, thereover or therefrom in violation of any Environmental Regulations; shall cause all Hazardous Substances to be properly removed therefrom and properly disposed of in accordance with all applicable Environmental Regulations; shall not install or permit to be installed any underground storage tank therein or thereunder in violation of any Environmental Regulation; and shall comply with all other Environmental Regulations. Developer and OnGoal shall indemnify Cerner against, shall hold Cerner harmless from, and shall reimburse Cerner for, any and all claims, demands, judgments, penalties, fines, liabilities, costs, damages and expenses, including court costs and attorneys' fees incurred by Cerner (prior to trial, at trial and on appeal) in any action against or involving Cerner, resulting from any breach of the foregoing covenants or from the discovery of any Hazardous Substance, in, upon, under or over, or emanating from, the Property, whether or not Developer is responsible therefor, it being the intent of the parties hereto that Cerner shall have no liability or responsibility for damage or injury to human health, the environment or natural resources caused by, for abatement and/or clean-up of, or otherwise with respect to, Hazardous Substances. The foregoing covenants contained in this Section shall be deemed continuing covenants, representations and warranties for the benefit of Cerner and any successors and assigns of Cerner, and shall survive the termination, satisfaction or release of this Agreement, or any other instrument.
Soil Placement Right
For purposes of this Section 4 the following terms shall be defined as follows:
     (a) "" means any and all present and future laws, statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations and orders of any governmental authority having jurisdiction over the parties hereto or any portion of the Site or the Site and pertaining to the protection of human health, hazardous substances, pollution, or the environment, including, without limitation, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, and as the same may be further amended from time to time (hereinafter collectively called "CERCLA").
Environmental Regulation
     (b) "" means any substance that is defined or listed as a hazardous or toxic substance and which is regulated as such or may form the basis of liability under any present or future Environmental Regulation, or that is otherwise prohibited or subject to investigation or remediation under any present or future
Hazardous Substance
 
Environmental Regulation because of its hazardous, toxic, or dangerous properties, including, without limitation, (i) any substance that is a "hazardous substance" under CERCLA, and (ii) petroleum, natural gas, natural gas liquids, liquefied natural gas, and synthetic gas usable for fuel (or mixtures of natural gas and such synthetic gas), only to the extent that the constituents of such synthetic gas are released or threatened to be released into the environment.
     4. . Pursuant to that certain Correction Master Declaration of Operation and Easements, Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions, dated November 1, 2001, as amended (the ""), the owner of the Property possesses certain rights in connection with electing and removing a Site Board Member, as the same is described in the Declaration, which Site Board Members (as comprising the Site Board) have certain approval rights in connection with the Declaration and the development of property within the Village West development. As part of any disposition of the Property by Cerner, Cerner shall use good faith efforts to include in any sale contract, a provision requiring the transferee of the Property to delegate to Developer all of said transferee's rights under the Declaration, as the owner of the Property, for the election and removal of the Site Board Member in connection with the Property.
Site Board
Declaration
     5. . Within thirty (30) days of the date that the terms and conditions of the Workforce Agreement are satisfied, such that neither the Inducement Repayment Amount nor the MPI Repayment Amount are due pursuant to the terms of the Workforce Agreement, Developer or OnGoal shall pay to Cerner the sum of Four Million and No/100 Dollars ($4,000,000) as additional consideration for Cerner's construction of the Office Campus on the Property (or the Swap Property, as the case may be).
Success Fee
     6. . This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be fully effective as an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterpart Signatures
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto hereby execute this Term Sheet as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
All that part of Lot 1A, Block C, Tourism District, a subdivision of record, in the City of Kansas City, Wyandotte County, Kansas, being more particularly described as follows: beginning at the northeast corner of said Lot 1A, thence South 02 degrees 22 minutes 38 seconds East, with the east line of said Lot 1A, and with the west right-of-way line of Interstate 435, a distance of 1282.56 feet; thence South 35 degrees 40 minutes 27 seconds West, continuing with the east line of said Lot 1A and the west right-of-way line of Interstate 435, a distance of 739.95 feet; thence North 69 degrees 45 minutes 46 seconds West, and no longer with the east line of said Lot 1A and the east right-of-way line of Interstate 435, a distance of 580.05 feet to the northeasterly corner of Lot 1B, Block C, Tourism District; thence North 54 degrees 30 minutes 03 seconds West, with the northerly line of said Lot 1B, a distance of 607.48 feet to the northwesterly corner of said Lot 1B, said point being on the west line of said Lot 1A; thence North 02 degrees 20 minutes 45 seconds West, with the west line of said Lot 1A, a distance of 1314.28 feet to the northwest corner of said Lot 1A, said point being on the south right-of-way line of State Avenue; thence North 52 degrees 46 minutes 06 seconds East, with the north line of said Lot 1A, and with the south right-of-way line of State Avenue, a distance of 178.52 feet; thence North 87 degrees 42 minutes 44 seconds East, continuing with the north line of said Lot 1A and the south right-of-way line of State Avenue, a distance of 187.79 feet; thence North 02 degrees 17 minutes 16 seconds West, continuing with the north line of said Lot 1A and the south right-of-way line of State Avenue, a distance of 20.00 feet; thence North 87 degrees 42 minutes 44 seconds East, continuing with the north line of said Lot 1A and the south right-of-way line of State Avenue, a distance of 759.94 feet; thence South 68 degrees 36 minutes 43 seconds East, continuing with the north line of said Lot 1A and the south right-of-way line of State Avenue, a distance of 410.89 feet to the point of beginning. The above described tract contains 2,553,516 square feet, or 58.62 acres.
The above description and land area are for informational purposes and should be verified with a proper field survey at the time of land transaction.


