FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20110531173407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
(a) Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation
On March 9, 2011, the Board of Directors of Cerner Corporation (the "Company") adopted resolutions to amend and on May 27, 2011, the shareholders of the Company approved the proposals to amend the Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated December 5, 2003 (the "Certificate of Incorporation") to: i) increase the number of Authorized Shares of Common Stock from 150,000,000 to 250,000,000 and ii) to eliminate the Series A Preferred Stock.
The Certificates of Amendment, effective May 27, 2011, are attached as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2 to this report and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Company held its Annual Shareholders' Meeting on May 27, 2011. The shareholders considered and voted on eight proposals submitted for shareholder vote, each of which is described in detail in the Company's 2011 Proxy Statement. The following is a brief description of the matters voted on at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting and the final results of such voting:
- The election of three Class I Directors: John C. Danforth, Neal L. Patterson and William D. Zollars, each to serve for a three year term, and one Class III Director: Denis A. Cortese, M.D., to fill the vacant Class III Director seat and to serve the remaining two years of the Class III term, until May 2013:
Proposal No. 1
John C. Danforth, Neal L. Patterson and William D. Zollars have been elected as Class I Directors and Denis A. Cortese, M.D. has been elected as a Class III Director.
Final Results:
- The ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as independent registered public accounting firm of the Company for 2011:
Proposal No. 2
The shareholders ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as independent registered public accounting firm of the Company for 2011.
Final Results:
 
 An advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers:
Proposal No. 3
The shareholders have provided a nonbinding advisory vote in favor of the compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers.
Final Results:
 An advisory vote on the frequency of an advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers:
Proposal No. 4
The shareholders have provided a nonbinding advisory vote in favor of a frequency of "every year" for an advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers.
Final Results:
 Approval of the Cerner Corporation 2011 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan:
Proposal No. 5
The Company's 2011 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan has been approved by the shareholders.
Final Results:
 
 Approval of an increase in the total number of shares available for purchase under the Company's Associate Stock Purchase Plan:
Proposal No. 6
An amendment to the Company's Associate Stock Purchase Plan, increasing the number of shares available for purchase, has been approved by the shareholders.
Final Results:
 Approval to increase the number of Authorized Shares of Common Stock under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation:
Proposal No. 7
The shareholders have approved an increase in the number of Authorized Shares of Common Stock under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation.
Final Results:
 Elimination of the Series A Preferred Stock under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation:
Proposal No. 8
The shareholders have approved the elimination of the Series A Preferred Stock under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation.
Final Results:
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On May 27, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a two-for-one split of its common stock in the form of a stock dividend, payable on or about June 24, 2011 to shareholders of record as of June 15, 2011. Upon completion of the split, the total number of shares of common stock outstanding will increase from approximately 84.4 million outstanding shares to approximately 168.8 million outstanding shares.
 
The Company issued a press release regarding the two-for-one stock split, which is annexed hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 3.1
     Cerner Corporation (the "Company"), a corporation existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, for the purpose of amending its Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, in accordance with the General Corporation Law of Delaware, does hereby make and execute this Certificate of Amendment to the Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation and does hereby certify that:
     1. The provisions of the present Article FOURTH of the Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company are amended by deleting the first sentence of Article FOURTH in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following new first sentence of Article FOURTH, with no changes to be made to the subsequent sentences and provisions of Article FOURTH:
     FOURTH: The total number of shares of stock which the corporation shall have authority to issue is two hundred fifty one million (251,000,000)             shares, consisting of:
          (1) 250,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Common Stock"); and
          (2) 1,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock").
     2. The Amendment to the Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company set forth above was duly adopted at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company and subsequently approved at an annual meeting of shareholders of the Company by an affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, entitled to vote thereon in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Cerner Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be executed on its behalf by its President, and attested by its Secretary, on May 27, 2011, and each of them does hereby affirm and acknowledge that this Certificate of Amendment is the act and deed of the Company and that the facts stated herein are true.

EXHIBIT 3.2
     Cerner Corporation (the "Company"), a corporation existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, for the purpose of amending its Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, in accordance with the General Corporation Law of Delaware, does hereby make and execute this Certificate of Amendment of the Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation and does hereby certify that:
     1. The Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation be amended by deleting Section 1.2 of Article FOURTH in its entirety, and all designated shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall, following effectiveness of such amendment to the Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation, be available for authorization and issuance as a new series of Preferred Stock as provided therein.
     2. The Amendment to the Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company set forth above was duly adopted at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company and subsequently approved at an annual meeting of shareholders of the Company by an affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, entitled to vote thereon in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Cerner Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be executed on its behalf by its President, and attested by its Secretary, on May 27, 2011, and each of them does hereby affirm and acknowledge that this Certificate of Amendment is the act and deed of the Company and that the facts stated herein are true.
(CORPORATE SEAL)
ATTEST:

Exhibit 99.1
(Nasdaq: CERN) announced today that its board of directors approved a 2-for-1 split of the company's common stock in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend at a regularly scheduled board meeting on May 27, 2011. Each shareholder of record on June 15, 2011 will receive one additional share of common stock for each share held on that date.
KANSAS CITY, Mo. May 31, 2011 
Cerner Corporation
The distribution date for the new shares will be June 24, 2011. Cerner had approximately 84.4 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of May 27, 2011. The stock split will increase the common shares issued and outstanding to approximately 168.8 million.
Answers to frequently asked questions are available on Cerner's Web site at under the About Cerner section (click Investor Relations, then choose "2011 Stock Split FAQ").
www.cerner.com
About Cerner
Cerner is transforming health care by eliminating error, variance and waste for health care providers and consumers around the world. solutions optimize processes for health care organizations ranging in size from single-doctor practices, to health systems, to entire countries, for the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, employer health and wellness services industry and for the health care commerce system. These solutions are licensed by approximately 9,000 facilities around the world, including more than 2,600 hospitals; 3,500 physician practices covering more than 30,000 physicians; 500 ambulatory facilities, such as laboratories, ambulatory centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics and surgery centers; 800 home health facilities; and 1,600 retail pharmacies. The trademarks, service marks and logos (collectively, the "Marks") set forth herein are owned by Cerner Corporation and/or its subsidiaries in the United States and certain other countries throughout the world. Nasdaq: CERN. For more information about Cerner, please visit , .
Cerner
www.cerner.com
Twitter
,
Facebook
, and
YouTube
Kelli Christman, (816) 885-4342, Allan Kells, (816) 201-2445,
Cerner Media Contact:
kelli.christman@cerner.com
Cerner Investors Contact:
akells@cerner.com


