FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20120207160158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 7, 2012, Cerner Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing, among other things, its financial results for the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2011. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is attached hereto.
To supplement the Company's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), the Company uses non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share. Both adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain share-based compensation expenses. The Company also discloses certain non-GAAP measures, such as bookings and backlog (which includes contract backlog and support and maintenance backlog), and the non-GAAP financial measure free cash flow (which is defined as GAAP cash flows from operating activities less capital purchases and capitalized software development costs). These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our financial performance, and as required, are also reconciled to GAAP. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise be subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
 
99.1     Press Release of Cerner Corporation dated February 7, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Cerner Corporation (Nasdaq: CERN) today announced results for the 2011 fourth quarter and full year that ended Dec. 31, 2011, delivering record levels of bookings, revenue, earnings and cash flow.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  Feb. 7, 2012 
Bookings in the fourth quarter of 2011 were $899.0 million, an all-time high for Cerner and an increase of 44 percent compared to fourth quarter 2010 bookings of $626.2 million. Full year 2011 bookings were a record $2.72 billion, up 37 percent compared to 2010 bookings of $1.99 billion.
Fourth quarter revenue was $615.6 million, an increase of 23 percent compared to $500.2 million in the year-ago period. Full year 2011 revenue was $2.20 billion, up 19 percent compared to 2010 revenue of $1.85 billion.
On a U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis, fourth quarter 2011 net earnings were $91.2 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.52. Fourth quarter 2010 GAAP net earnings were $70.6 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.41. For the full year, 2011 GAAP net earnings were $306.6 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.76. Full year 2010 GAAP net earnings were $237.3 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.39.
The number of shares and the per share amounts for all periods presented within reflect the two-for-one stock split effective June 24, 2011.
Adjusted (non-GAAP) Net Earnings
Adjusted net earnings for fourth quarter 2011 were $96.2 million, an increase of 28 percent compared to $75.0 million of adjusted net earnings in the fourth quarter of 2010. Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.55 in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $0.44 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010. Analysts' consensus estimate for fourth quarter 2011 adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.53. For the full year 2011, adjusted net earnings were $324.9 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share were $1.87, compared to full year 2010 adjusted net earnings of $252.8 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.48.
Adjusted net earnings is not a recognized term under GAAP and should not be substituted for net earnings as a measure of the Company's performance but instead should be utilized as a supplemental measure of financial performance in evaluating our business. Following is a description of adjustments made to net earnings. For more detail, please see the accompanying schedule, titled "Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share to GAAP Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings Per Share."
Adjusted net earnings and diluted earnings per share exclude share-based compensation expense, which reduced fourth quarter 2011 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $5.0 million and $0.03, respectively, and reduced fourth quarter 2010 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $4.3 million and $0.03, respectively. Share-based compensation expense reduced full year 2011 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $18.2 million and $0.11, respectively, and reduced full year 2010 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $15.6 million and $0.09, respectively.
Other 2011 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Highlights:
 
 
 
"We delivered outstanding results in Q4 and for the year 2011, including record bookings, revenue, earnings and cash flow," Neal Patterson, Cerner chairman, CEO, president and co-founder said. "We expect to continue to see a strong market for health care IT solutions and services for years to come as the health care industry undergoes a transition from paper to digital records and shifts from volume-based payment programs to programs based on measurements of quality and outcomes. During this transition and beyond, we believe there is also substantial opportunity to apply our cloud-based platform to help providers leverage the data being captured in order to predict and improve outcomes, control costs, and improve quality."
Healthe Intent
Future Period Guidance
Cerner currently expects:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call
Cerner will host an earnings conference call to provide additional detail on these results at 3:30 p.m. CT on Feb. 7. The dial-in number for the conference call is (617) 614-4909; the passcode is Cerner. Cerner recommends joining the call 15 minutes early for registration. The re-broadcast of the call will be available from 6:30 p.m. CT, Feb. 7 through 11:59 p.m. CT, Feb. 10. The dial-in number for the re-broadcast is (617) 801-6888; the passcode is 39851671.
An audio webcast will be available live during the conference call and archived on Cerner's website at www.cerner.com under the About Cerner section (click Investor Relations, then Presentations and Webcasts).
About Cerner
Cerner is contributing to the systemic change of health and care delivery. For more than 30 years Cerner has been executing its vision to make health care safer and more efficient. We started with the foundation of digitizing paper processes and now offer the most comprehensive array of information software, professional services, medical device integration, remote hosting and employer health and wellness services. Cerner systems are used by everyone from individual consumers, to single-doctor practices, hospitals, employers and entire countries. Taking what we've learned over more than three decades, Cerner is building on the knowledge that is in the system to support evidence-based clinical decisions, prevent medical errors and empower patients in their care.
This release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. It is important to note that Cerner's performance, and actual results, financial condition or business could differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. The words "continue," "believe," "guidance," "expects" or the negative of these words, variations thereof or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the possibility of product-related liabilities; potential claims for system errors and warranties; the possibility of interruption at our data centers or client support facilities; our proprietary technology may be subject to claims for infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights of others, or may be infringed or misappropriated by others; risks associated with our non-U.S. operations; risks associated with our ability to effectively hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the potential for tax legislation initiatives that could adversely affect our tax position and/or challenges to our tax positions in the United States and non-U.S. countries; risks associated with our recruitment and retention of key personnel; risks related to our dependence on third party suppliers; risks inherent with business acquisitions; the potential for losses resulting from asset impairment charges; risks associated with the ongoing adverse financial market environment and uncertainty in global economic conditions; changing political, economic and regulatory influences; government regulation; significant competition and market changes; variations in our quarterly operating results; potential inconsistencies in our sales forecasts compared to actual sales; volatility in the trading price of our common stock; and, our directors' authority to issue preferred stock and the anti-takeover provisions in our corporate governance documents. Additional discussion of these and other risks, uncertainties and factors affecting the Company's business is contained in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cerner undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time.
Allan Kells, (816) 201-2445, akells@cerner.com
Investor Contact:
Kelli Christman, (816) 885-4342, kelli.christman@cerner.com
Media Contact:
www.cerner.com
Cerner's Internet Home Page:
CERNER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
For the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011
(unaudited)
 
Operating expenses for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011 include share-based compensation expense. The impact of this expense on net earnings is presented below:
Note 1:
 
CERNER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP RESULTS TO NON-GAAP RESULTS
1
For the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011
(unaudited)
RECONCILIATION OF ADJUSTED NET EARNINGS AND ADJUSTED DILUTED
EARNINGS PER SHARE TO GAAP NET EARNINGS AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
1
 
The presentation of Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share, Adjusted Net Earnings and Free Cash Flow, non-GAAP financial measures, are not meant to be considered in isolation, nor as a substitute for, or superior to, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results and investors should be aware that non-GAAP measures have inherent limitations and should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share, Adjusted Net Earnings and Free Cash Flow may also be different from similar non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and may not be comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculations. The Company believes that Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share, Adjusted Net Earnings and Free Cash Flow are important to enable investors to better understand and evaluate its ongoing operating results and allows for greater transparency in the review of its overall financial, operational and economic performance.
Note 1:
The Company provides earnings with and without share-based compensation expense because earnings excluding this expense is used by management along with GAAP results to analyze its business, make strategic decisions and for management compensation purposes.
Note 2:
The Company provides cash flow with and without capital purchases and software development cost because operating cash flows excluding these expenditures takes into account the capital expenditures necessary to operate our business.
Note 3:
CERNER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
As of December 31, 2011 (unaudited) and January 1, 2011
(In thousands)
 


