FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20120522160610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): May 18, 2012
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 5.07    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
Cerner Corporation (Cerner) held its Annual Shareholders Meeting on May 18, 2012. The shareholders considered and voted on the four proposals submitted for shareholder vote, each of which is described in detail in Cerners 2012 Proxy Statement. The following is a brief description of the matters that were voted on at the Annual Shareholders Meeting and the final results of such voting:
Proposal No. 1
- The election of two Class II Directors, Clifford W. Illig and William B. Neaves, Ph.D., each to serve for a three year term.
Final Results:
Clifford W. Illig and William B. Neaves, Ph.D. have been elected as Class II Directors.
Proposal No. 2
- The ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm of Cerner for 2012.
Final Results:
The shareholders ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as Cerners independent registered public accounting firm for 2012.
There were no broker non-votes with respect to this proposal.
Proposal No. 3
 An advisory vote to approve the compensation of Cerners Named Executive Officers.
Final Results:
The shareholders approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation of Cerners Named Executive Officers.
Proposal No. 4
 Consideration of a shareholder proposal urging the Board of Directors to take action to repeal Cerners classified Board of Directors structure.
Final Results:
The shareholders have voted in favor of the shareholder proposal urging the Board of Directors to take action to repeal Cerners classified Board of Directors structure.
1
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
2


