FILE:CERN/CERN-8K-20120726160328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
_______________________________________ 
FORM 8-K
_______________________________________
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 26, 2012
 
Cerner Corporation
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
 
(816) 221-1024
(Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On
July 26, 2012,
Cerner Corporation (Cerner) issued a press release announcing, among other things, its financial results for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2012. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is attached hereto.
To supplement Cerners consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), Cerner uses non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share. Both adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain share-based compensation expenses. Cerner also discloses certain non-GAAP measures, such as bookings and backlog (which includes contract backlog and support and maintenance backlog), and the non-GAAP financial measure free cash flow (which is defined as GAAP cash flows from operating activities less capital purchases and capitalized software development costs). These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance the users overall understanding of our financial performance, and as required, are also reconciled to GAAP. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise be subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
d)     Exhibits
99.1 Press Release of Cerner Corporation dated
July 26, 2012.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Cerner Reports Second Quarter 2012 Results
Strong Bookings, Revenue, Earnings and Cash Flow
KANSAS CITY, Mo. - July 26, 2012 -
Cerner Corporation (Nasdaq: CERN) today announced results for the 2012 second quarter that ended June 30, 2012, delivering strong levels of bookings, revenue, earnings and cash flow.
Bookings in the second quarter of 2012 were $700.5 million, an all-time high for a second quarter and an increase of eight percent compared to second quarter 2011 bookings of $649.9 million.
Second quarter revenue was $637.4 million, an increase of 22 percent compared to $524.2 million in the year-ago period.
On a U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis, second quarter 2012 net earnings were $97.8 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.56. Second quarter 2011 GAAP net earnings were $72.0 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.42.
Adjusted (non-GAAP) Net Earnings
Adjusted net earnings for second quarter 2012 were $103.1 million, an increase of 36 percent compared to $76.1 million of adjusted net earnings in the second quarter of 2011. Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.59 in the second quarter of 2012 compared to $0.44 of adjusted diluted earnings per share in the year-ago quarter. Analysts' consensus estimate for second quarter 2012 adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.54.
Adjusted net earnings is not a recognized term under GAAP and should not be substituted for net earnings as a measure of Cerner's performance but instead should be utilized as a supplemental measure of financial performance in evaluating our business. Following is a description of adjustments made to net earnings. For more detail, please see the accompanying schedule, titled Reconciliation of GAAP Results to Non-GAAP Results.
Adjusted net earnings and diluted earnings per share exclude share-based compensation expense, which reduced second quarter 2012 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $5.3 million and $0.03, respectively; and reduced second quarter 2011 net earnings and diluted earnings per share by $4.1 million and $0.02, respectively.
Other 2012 Second Quarter Highlights:
I am pleased with our results in the second quarter, which again included strong revenue and earnings growth and very strong cash flow, Neal Patterson, Cerner chairman, CEO, president and co-founder said. Our client base continues to make great progress at qualifying for stimulus payments related to the HITECH Act and our strong competitiveness is leading to new clients choosing Cerner. We believe the digitization being driven by the HITECH Act creates a foundation for significant ongoing investments in information technology and services, such as data analytics and population health management, that will be critical as health care providers become accountable for the health of populations under future reimbursement models.
Future Period Guidance
Cerner currently expects:
Earnings Conference Call
Cerner will host an earnings conference call to provide additional detail on these results at 3:30 p.m. CT on July 26. The dial-in number for the conference call is (617) 847-8706; the passcode is Cerner. Cerner recommends joining the call 15 minutes early for registration. The re-broadcast of the call will be available from 6:30 p.m. CT, July 26 through 11:59 p.m. CT, July 29. The dial-in number for the re-broadcast is (617) 801-6888; the passcode is 66790185.
An audio webcast will be available live during the conference call and archived on Cerner's website at www.cerner.com under the About Cerner section (click Investor Relations, then Presentations and Webcasts).
About Cerner
Cerner is contributing to the systemic change of health and care delivery. For more than 30 years Cerner has been executing its vision to make health care safer and more efficient. We started with the foundation of digitizing paper processes and now offer the most comprehensive array of information software, professional services, medical device integration, remote hosting and employer health and wellness services. Cerner systems are used by everyone from individual consumers, to single-doctor practices, hospitals, employers and entire countries. Taking what we've learned over more than three decades, Cerner is building on the knowledge that is in the system to support evidence-based clinical decisions, prevent medical errors and empower patients in their care.
Cerner
solutions are licensed by approximately 9,300 facilities around the world, including more than 2,650 hospitals; 3,750 physician practices; 40,000 physicians; 500 ambulatory facilities, such as laboratories, ambulatory centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics and surgery centers; 800 home health facilities; 40 employer sites and 1,600 retail pharmacies.
Certain trademarks, service marks and logos (collectively, the Marks) set forth herein are owned by Cerner Corporation and/or its subsidiaries in the United States and certain other countries throughout the world. All other non-Cerner Marks are the property of their respective owners. Nasdaq: CERN. For more information about Cerner, please visit
www.cerner.com
,
Twitter
,
Facebook
and
YouTube
.
This release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. It is important to note that Cerner's performance, and actual results, financial condition or business could differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. The words expect, guidance, believe, estimate or the negative of these words, variations thereof or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the possibility of product-related liabilities; potential claims for system errors and warranties; the possibility of interruption at our data centers or client support facilities; our proprietary technology may be subject to claims for infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights of others, or may be infringed or misappropriated by others; risks associated with our non-U.S. operations; risks associated with our ability to effectively hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the potential for tax legislation initiatives that could adversely affect our tax position and/or challenges to our tax positions in the United States and non-U.S. countries; risks associated with our recruitment and retention
of key personnel; risks related to our dependence on third party suppliers; risks inherent with business acquisitions; the potential for losses resulting from asset impairment charges; risks associated with uncertainty in global economic conditions; changing political, economic, regulatory and judicial influences; government regulation; significant competition and market changes; variations in our quarterly operating results; potential inconsistencies in our sales forecasts compared to actual sales; volatility in the trading price of our common stock and the timing and volume of market activity; our directors' authority to issue preferred stock and the anti-takeover provisions in our corporate governance documents; and material adverse resolution of legal proceedings. Additional discussion of these and other risks, uncertainties and factors affecting Cerner's business is contained in Cerner's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, since the statements speak only as of the date that they are made. Cerner undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time.
Investor Contact:
Allan Kells, (816) 201-2445, akells@cerner.com
Media Contact:
Kelli Christman, (816) 885-4342, kelli.christman@cerner.com
Cerner's Internet Home Page:
www.cerner.com
CERNER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and July 2, 2011
(unaudited)
Note 1:
Operating expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and July 2, 2011 include share-based compensation expense. The impact of this expense on net earnings and diluted earnings per share is presented below:
CERNER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP RESULTS AND NON-GAAP RESULTS
 
1
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and July 2, 2011
(unaudited)
RECONCILIATION OF ADJUSTED NET EARNINGS TO GAAP NET EARNINGS
 
1
RECONCILIATION OF ADJUSTED DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE TO GAAP DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
1
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FREE CASH FLOW TO GAAP OPERATING CASH FLOW
 
1
Note 1:
The presentation of Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share, Adjusted Net Earnings and Free Cash Flow, non-GAAP financial measures, are not meant to be considered in isolation, nor as a substitute for, or superior to, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results and investors should be aware that non-GAAP measures have inherent limitations and should be read only in conjunction with Cerner's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share, Adjusted Net Earnings and Free Cash Flow may also be different from similar non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and may not be comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculations. We believe that Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share, Adjusted Net Earnings and Free Cash Flow are important to enable investors to better understand and evaluate our ongoing operating results and allows for greater transparency in the review of our overall financial, operational and economic performance.
Note 2:
Cerner provides earnings with and without share-based compensation expense because earnings excluding this expense is used by management along with GAAP results to analyze its business, make strategic decisions and for management compensation purposes.
Note 3:
Cerner provides free cash flow because it takes into account the capital expenditures necessary to operate our business.
CERNER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
As of June 30, 2012 (unaudited) and December 31, 2011


