FILE:APD/APD-8K-20050126083429.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (See General Instruction A.2. below):
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On 26 January 2005, the company issued a press release announcing its earnings for the first quarter of fiscal year 2005. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. 7201 Hamilton Boulevard Allentown, PA 18195-1501
Access the Q1 earnings teleconference scheduled for 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time (ET) on January 26 by calling (719) 457-2633 and entering passcode 354933, or listen on the Web:
www.airproducts.com/Invest/financialnews/EarningsReleases.htm.
LEHIGH VALLEY, Pa. (January 26, 2005)  Air Products (NYSE:APD) today reported net income of $167 million or diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $.72 for its first fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2004. Net income increased 27 percent and diluted EPS was up 24 percent compared with the prior year.
Record quarter revenues of $1,991 million were up 18 percent from the prior year on strong volumes across the Gases and Chemicals businesses. Operating income of $238 million was up 20 percent from the prior year. Strong volume increases across all businesses, favorable currency effects and productivity gains were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials and productivity initiatives.
John P. Jones, Air Products' chairman and chief executive officer, said, "We again delivered strong earnings on solid volume gains and generated robust cash flow in the quarter. The strength of our portfolio, particularly our leadership positions in our growth businesses, is producing higher earnings and improved returns. Our employees remain focused and continue to make good progress toward our number one priorityimproving our return on capital."
Record Gases segment sales of $1,443 million increased 20 percent over the prior year on strong volumesparticularly in the company's refinery hydrogen and electronics growth businessesas well as higher natural gas cost pass through to customers and favorable currency effects. Record operating income of $220 million increased 21 percent, driven by strong volumes and favorable currency effects.
Chemicals segment sales of $461 million increased 12 percent versus the prior year on strong volumes in the Performance Materials and most Intermediate Chemicals businesses. Operating income of $20 million declined 18 percent, as higher raw material costs and plant operating costs associated with plant turnarounds more than offset stronger volumes and higher prices.
Equipment segment revenues of $88 million increased 23 percent over the prior year, mainly on higher liquefied natural gas (LNG) heat exchanger sales. Operating income of $6 million was up significantly versus the prior year. During the quarter, the company received two additional AP-X LNG heat exchanger orders, a new, proprietary technology that can increase heat exchanger capacity by 50 percent.
Looking forward, Mr. Jones said, "With our relentless focus on shareholder value, we continue to load our existing asset base while delivering a step change in our productivity and maintaining strict capital discipline. Although our Chemicals group results this quarter
 
are unacceptable, we expect significant improvement in the second quarter and throughout the remainder of our fiscal year. Our first quarter typically is the seasonal low point, and we now have some raw material fixes in place and several announced price increases which should help drive sequential improvement in Chemicals."
"Based on our improved first quarter performance and our confidence in our ability to sustain it, we are increasing our fiscal 2005 EPS guidance range to $2.95 to $3.15. For the fiscal second quarter, we expect to grow between 18 and 26 percent, resulting in an EPS of $.73 to $.78."
Air Products will host its Annual Meeting of Shareholders on Thursday, January 27, 2005 at 2:00 p.m. ET. Access the audio Webcast at
www.airproducts.com/Invest/shareholdersvcs/annualmeeting_materials.htm.
Air Products (NYSE:APD) serves customers in technology, energy, healthcare and industrial markets worldwide with a unique portfolio of products, services and solutions, providing atmospheric gases, process and specialty gases, performance materials and chemical intermediates. Founded in 1940, Air Products has built leading positions in key growth markets such as semiconductor materials, refinery hydrogen, home healthcare services, natural gas liquefaction, and advanced coatings and adhesives. The company is recognized for its innovative culture, operational excellence and commitment to safety and the environment and is listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability and FTSE4Good Indices. The company has annual revenues of $7.4 billion, operations in over 30 countries, and nearly 20,000 employees around the globe. For more information, visit www.airproducts.com.
NOTE: The forward-looking statements contained in this release are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed. Factors that might cause forward-looking statements to differ materially from actual results include those specifically referenced as future events or outcomes that the company anticipates, as well as, among other things, overall economic and business conditions different than those currently anticipated and demand for Air Products' goods and services during that time; competitive factors in the industries in which it competes; interruption in ordinary sources of supply; the ability to recover unanticipated increased energy and raw material costs from customers; uninsured litigation judgments or settlements; spikes in the pricing of natural gas; changes in government regulations; consequences of acts of war or terrorism impacting the United States' and other markets; charges related to currently unplanned portfolio management and cost reduction actions; the success of implementing cost reduction programs; the timing, impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or divestitures; significant fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currencies from that currently anticipated; the impact of tax and other legislation and regulations in jurisdictions in which Air Products and its affiliates operate; the impact of new financial accounting standards, including the expensing of employee stock options; and the timing and rate at which tax credits can be utilized.
Please review the attached financial tables, including the Summary of Consolidated Financial Information:
 
(Millions of dollars, except for share data)
 
(Millions of dollars, except for share data)
(a) Minority interest primarily includes before-tax amounts.
 
(Millions of dollars)
 
(Millions of dollars)
 
In the financial statements for the first quarter of 2005, the company has applied Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," in accounting for its stock option plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense has been recognized for employee stock options. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," which requires companies to expense the grant-date fair value of stock options. This Statement is effective fiscal periods beginning after 15 June 2005.
Share-Based Payments
 
(Millions of dollars)
(Millions of dollars)
(a) Identifiable assets are equal to total assets less investments in equity affiliates.
 
(Millions of dollars)
       Katie McDonald, tel: (610) 481-3673; e-mail:
mcdonace@airproducts.com
       Phil Sproger tel: (610) 481-7461; e-mail:
sprogepc@airproducts.com


