FILE:APD/APD-8K-20070124092229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (See General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 24, 2007, the company issued a press release announcing its earnings for the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. The press release, including all financial statements, is furnished and is not deemed to be filed.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. 7201 Hamilton Boulevard Allentown, PA 18195-1501
Access the Q1 earnings teleconference today at 10:00 a.m. EST by calling (913) 981-4910 and entering passcode 4871553, or listen on the Web at:
www.airproducts.com/Invest/financialnews/EarningsReleases.htm.
LEHIGH VALLEY, Pa. (January 24, 2007)  Air Products (NYSE:APD) today reported net income of $230 million, or diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $1.03, for its fiscal first quarter ended December 31, 2006. Net income increased 27 percent and diluted EPS was up 29 percent compared with the prior year.
Record first quarter revenues of $2,433 million were up 21 percent from the prior year on strong volume growth in the company's Merchant Gases, Tonnage Gases, Electronics and Performance Materials, and Equipment and Energy segments. Record operating income of $332 million was up 31 percent versus prior year.
John Jones, chairman and chief executive officer, said, "This was an outstanding quarter. We delivered substantial top-line growth through strong volumes, improved pricing and higher equipment results. We also drove productivity to the bottom line, resulting in significantly expanded margins and increased return on capital. Our continued strong performance in the quarter demonstrates our people's focus on becoming a higher growth and higher return company."
Air Products manages its operations, assesses performance and reports results in six global business segments. For the fiscal 2007 first quarter:
Individual Business Segment Performance
 
Outlook
Looking forward, Jones said, "We're off to a great start and are on our way to having another year of strong performance in fiscal 2007. Our leading market positions, along with our productivity-focused infrastructure investments, position us to deliver continued growth. We are therefore increasing our EPS guidance to a range of $3.98 to $4.10 per share, representing 14 to 17 percent* year-on-year earnings growth."
The company currently anticipates fiscal second quarter EPS in the range of $.98 to $1.03 per share.
Annual Meeting of Shareholders
Air Products will host its Annual Meeting of Shareholders on Thursday, January 25, 2007 at 2:00 p.m. EST. Access the audio Webcast at:
www.airproducts.com/Invest/shareholdersvcs/annualmeeting_materials.htm.
Air Products (NYSE:APD) serves customers in industrial, energy, technology and healthcare markets worldwide with a unique portfolio of atmospheric gases, process and specialty gases, performance materials, and equipment and services. Founded in 1940, Air Products has built leading positions in key growth markets such as semiconductor materials, refinery hydrogen, home healthcare services, natural gas liquefaction, and advanced coatings and adhesives. The company is recognized for its innovative culture, operational excellence and commitment to safety and the environment and is listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability and FTSE4Good Indices. The company has annual revenues of $9 billion, operations in over 40 countries, and over 20,000 employees around the globe. For more information, visit www.airproducts.com.
NOTE: This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on management's reasonable expectations and assumptions as of the date of this presentation regarding important risk factors. Actual performance and financial results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements because of many factors, including those specifically referenced as future events or outcomes that the company anticipates as well as, among other things, overall economic and business conditions different than those currently anticipated and demand for Air Products' goods and services during that time; competitive factors in the industries in which it competes; interruption in ordinary sources of supply; the ability to recover unanticipated increased energy and raw material costs from customers; uninsured litigation judgments or settlements; changes in government regulations; consequences of acts of war or terrorism impacting the United States' and other markets; the effects of a pandemic or epidemic or a natural disaster; charges related to portfolio management and cost reduction actions; the success of implementing cost reduction programs and achieving anticipated acquisition synergies; the timing, impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or divestitures or unanticipated contract terminations; significant fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currencies from that currently anticipated; the impact of tax and other legislation and regulations in jurisdictions in which Air Products and its affiliates operate; the impact of new financial accounting standards; and the timing and rate at which tax credits can be utilized. The company disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this presentation to reflect any change in the company's assumptions, beliefs or expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances upon which any such forward-looking statements are based.
 
This press release contains non-GAAP measures which adjust prior year results to exclude the impact of the 2006 global cost reduction plan. The presentation of non-GAAP measures is intended to enhance the usefulness of financial information by providing measures which the company's management uses internally to evaluate the company's baseline performance. Presented below is a reconciliation of reported results to non-GAAP measures.
*
 
(Millions of dollars, except for share data)
 
(Millions of dollars)
 
(Millions of dollars)
 
(Millions of dollars)
 
 
(Millions of dollars)
1. ACQUISITION PENDING APPROVAL
On 8 January 2007, the company announced it had reached definitive agreement with The Linde Group to acquire the industrial gas business of BOC Gazy Sp z o. o. for 370 million Euros ($481). The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions. For regulatory purposes, BOC Gazy was required to be sold by Linde as a result of its purchase of The BOC Group plc in September 2006. The BOC Gazy business had fiscal year 2006 sales of approximately 126 million Euros ($164). The business has approximately 750 employees, five major industrial gas plants, and six cylinder transfills serving customers across a diverse range of industries, including chemicals, steel and base metals, among others.
2. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
In March 2006, the company announced it was exploring the sale of its Amines and Polymers businesses as part of the company's ongoing portfolio management activities. The company sold its Amines business to Taminco N.V. on 29 September 2006. Accordingly, the Amines business is being accounted for as discontinued operations and the consolidated financial statements for prior periods have been adjusted to reflect this presentation.
3. SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM
In March 2006, the Board of Directors approved a $1,500 share repurchase program. The company began the share repurchase program in the third quarter of 2006 and purchased 7.7 million of its outstanding shares at a cost of $496.1 during 2006. The company expects to complete an additional $500 of the program during fiscal year 2007 and during the first quarter purchased 1.8 million of its outstanding shares at a cost of $125.7.
4. HURRICANES
In the fourth quarter of 2005, the company's New Orleans industrial gas complex sustained extensive damage from Hurricane Katrina. Other industrial gases and chemicals facilities in the Gulf Coast region also sustained damages from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in fiscal 2005.
Insurance recoveries for property damages and business interruption were recognized as claims were settled. Operating income for the three months ended 31 December 2005 included a net gain of $7.3 related to insurance recoveries net of property damage and other expenses incurred. Operating income for the three months ended 31 December 2006 was not impacted except for higher depreciation expense of approximately $1. During the three months ended 31 December 2006 and 2005, the company collected insurance proceeds of $19.1 and $25.0, respectively. The company estimated the impact of business interruption at $(26.0) for the three months ended 31 December 2005.
A table summarizing the estimated impact of the Hurricanes for the three months ended 31 December 2005 is provided below:
 
(Millions of dollars)
(Millions of dollars)
 
 
Media Inquiries
:
     Katie McDonald, tel: (610) 481-3673; e-mail: .
mcdonace@airproducts.com
Investor Inquiries
:
     Nelson Squires, tel: (610) 481-7461; e-mail: .
squirenj@airproducts.com


