FILE:APD/APD-8K-20100422093414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (See General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 22, 2010, the company issued a press release announcing its earnings for the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. The press release, including all financial statements, is furnished and is not deemed to be filed.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. 7201 Hamilton Boulevard Allentown, PA 18195-1501
Access the Q2 earnings teleconference scheduled for 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on April 22 by calling 719-325-4848 and entering passcode 5946463, or listen on the Web at:
www.airproducts.com/Invest/financialnews/Earnings_Releases/Teleconference.htm
.
Highlights
LEHIGH VALLEY, Pa. (April 22, 2010)  Air Products (NYSE:APD) today reported net income of $267 million, or diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $1.23, for its fiscal second quarter ended March 31, 2010. This result excludes an after-tax charge of $15 million, or $0.07 per share, for costs associated with the tender offer for the outstanding shares of Airgas, Inc.
The discussion of second quarter results and guidance in this release is based on non-GAAP comparisons excluding costs associated with the Airgas offer. A reconciliation can be found at the end of this release.*
Second quarter revenues of $2,249 million grew 15 percent primarily on improved volumes in Tonnage Gases and Electronics and Performance Materials. Energy and raw material cost pass-through and favorable currency also contributed to the increase in sales. Underlying sales grew nine percent. Operating income of $364 million rose 40 percent from the prior year due to higher volumes and lower costs.
John McGlade, chairman, president and chief executive officer, said, "We are seeing improvement across our businesses. Our second quarter had strong underlying revenue growth, continued margin improvement and significant earnings growth. We are delivering on our commitments."
Second Quarter Segment Performance
 
Outlook
McGlade said, "I'm particularly pleased with the performance of the Air Products team over the past year. Looking to the second half of our fiscal year, we are forecasting earnings growth in excess of 20 percent for 2010. The gradual economic recovery, combined with the leverage from our existing capacity, new project onstreams and improving productivity should position us well to meet our margin target of 17 percent in fiscal 2011. I want to assure our shareholders we will stay focused on our goals as we pursue the strategic opportunities in front of us."
Air Products now expects third quarter EPS from continuing operations to be between $1.25 and $1.29 per share and full-year EPS from continuing operations of $4.90 to $5.00 per share.
Air Products (NYSE:APD) serves customers in industrial, energy, technology and healthcare markets worldwide with a unique portfolio of atmospheric gases, process and specialty gases, performance materials, and equipment and services. Founded in 1940, Air Products has built leading positions in key growth markets such as semiconductor materials, refinery hydrogen, home healthcare services, natural gas liquefaction, and advanced coatings and adhesives. The company is recognized for its innovative culture, operational excellence and commitment to safety and the environment. In fiscal 2009, Air Products had revenues of $8.3 billion, operations in over 40 countries, and 18,900 employees around the globe. For more information, visit .
www.airproducts.com
On February 11, 2010, Air Products Distribution, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. ("Air Products"), commenced a cash tender offer for all the outstanding shares of common stock of Airgas, Inc. ("Airgas") not already owned by Air Products, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase dated as of February 11, 2010 (the "Offer to Purchase"). The purchase price to be paid upon the successful closing of the cash tender offer is $60.00 per share in cash, without interest and less any required withholding tax, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase, as amended. The offer is scheduled to expire at midnight, New York City time, on Friday, June 4, 2010, unless further extended in the manner set forth in the Offer to Purchase.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 
This communication does not constitute an offer to buy or solicitation of an offer to sell any securities. The tender offer is being made pursuant to a tender offer statement on Schedule TO (including the Offer to Purchase, a related letter of transmittal and other offer materials) filed by Air Products with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on February 11, 2010. Investors and security holders can obtain free copies of these documents and other documents filed with the SEC by Air Products through the web site maintained by the SEC at . The Offer to Purchase and related materials may also be obtained for free by contacting the Information Agent for the tender offer, MacKenzie Partners, Inc., at 212-929-5500 or toll-free at 800-322-2885.
INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF AIRGAS ARE URGED TO READ THESE AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION.
http://www.sec.gov
In connection with the proposed transaction, Air Products may file a proxy statement with the SEC. Any definitive proxy statement will be mailed to stockholders of Airgas. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of these documents (if and when available) and other documents filed with the SEC by Air Products through the web site maintained by the SEC at
INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF AIRGAS ARE URGED TO READ THESE AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION.
http://www.sec.gov.
Air Products and certain of its respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the proposed transaction under the rules of the SEC. Security holders may obtain information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of Air Products' directors and executive officers in Air Products' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2009, which was filed with the SEC on November 25, 2009, and its proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting, which was filed with the SEC on December 10, 2009. These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. Additional information regarding the interests of these participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will also be included in any proxy statement and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
CERTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING PARTICIPANTS
NOTE: This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including earnings guidance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's reasonable expectations and assumptions as of the date this presentation is made regarding important risk factors. Actual performance and financial results may differ materially from projections and estimates expressed in the forward-looking statements because of many factors not anticipated by management, including, without limitation, a slowdown in the global economic recovery; renewed deterioration in economic and business conditions; poor demand for the Company's products; future financial and operating performance of major customers and industries served by the Company; inability to collect receivables from or recovery of payments made by customers in bankruptcy proceedings; unanticipated contract terminations or customer cancellations or postponement of projects and sales; asset
 
impairments due to economic conditions or specific product or customer events; unexpected costs associated with the Company's cash tender offer for Airgas, Inc.; costs of future restructuring actions which are not currently planned or anticipated; the impact of competitive products and pricing; interruption in ordinary sources of supply of raw materials; the ability to recover unanticipated increased energy and raw material costs from customers; costs and outcomes of litigation or regulatory activities; charges related to current portfolio management and cost reduction actions; the success of implementing cost reduction programs; inability to achieve anticipated acquisition synergies; the timing, impact, and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or divestitures; significant fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currencies from that currently anticipated; the continued availability of capital funding sources in all of the Company's foreign operations; the impact of new or changed environmental, healthcare, tax or other legislation and regulations in jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate; the impact of new or changed financial accounting guidance; the timing and rate at which tax credits can be utilized and other risk factors described in the Company's Form 10K for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2009. The Company disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this document to reflect any change in the Company's assumptions, beliefs or expectations or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances upon which any such forward-looking statements are based.
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Millions of dollars, unless otherwise indicated)
1. AIRGAS TRANSACTION
In February 2010, the Company commenced a tender offer to acquire all the outstanding common stock of Airgas, Inc. (Airgas), including the associated preferred stock purchase rights, for $60.00 per share in cash. Airgas, a Delaware company, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, specialty gases, and hardgoods. The total value of the transaction would be approximately $7 billion, including $5.1 billion of equity and $1.9 billion of assumed debt. The offer and withdrawal rights are scheduled to expire on 4 June 2010, unless further extended.
Prior to the tender offer, the Company purchased approximately 1.5 million shares of Airgas stock for $69.6. This amount was recorded as an available-for-sale investment within other noncurrent assets on the consolidated balance sheet. An after-tax unrealized holding gain of $16.7 for the period was recorded in other comprehensive income.
In connection with this tender offer, the Company has secured committed financing in the form of a $6.7 billion term loan credit facility. Fees incurred to secure this credit facility have been deferred and will be amortized over the term of the arrangement.
For the second quarter 2010, $23.4 in expense was recognized related to this transaction and is included within acquisition-related costs on the consolidated income statement. This includes amortization of the fees related to the term loan credit facility and other acquisition-related costs.
2. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
In the second quarter of 2010, the Company entered into agreements that will enable it to acquire 100% of the outstanding shares of the French SAGA group (SAGA) which consists of SAGA, SAGA Medical, and SAGA Technologies. SAGA is an independent industrial gas provider in France with packaged gases, liquid bulk, and medical businesses. SAGA revenues in calendar year 2009 were approximately 25 million, or $35.
Under the terms of these agreements, the Company purchased 51.47% of the shares of SAGA on 1 March 2010 for 34.5 million, or $47.2 ($25.0 net of cash acquired of $22.2). The remaining shares are expected to be purchased in November 2010 for a fixed price of 44.8 million, or approximately $61, under a put and call option structure. This structure has been accounted for as a financing of the purchase of the remaining shares and reported within short-term borrowings on the consolidated balance sheet.
 
The Company utilizes a non-GAAP measure in the computation of capital expenditures and includes spending associated with facilities accounted for as capital leases. Certain contracts associated with facilities that are built to provide product to a specific customer are required to be accounted for as leases, and such spending is reflected as a use of cash within cash provided by operating activities. The presentation of this non-GAAP measure is intended to enhance the usefulness of information by providing a measure which the Company's management uses internally to evaluate and manage the Company's expenditures.
Below is a reconciliation of capital expenditures on a GAAP basis to a non-GAAP measure.
Media Inquiries
:
Investor Inquiries
:


