FILE:APD/APD-8K-20101021092323.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (See General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 21, 2010, the company issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. The press release, including all financial statements, is furnished and is not deemed to be filed.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.
7201 Hamilton Boulevard
Allentown, PA 18195-1501
Access the Q4 earnings teleconference scheduled for 10:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Savings Time on October 21 by calling (719) 325-2370 and entering passcode 3343911 or listen on the Web at .
www.airproducts.com/Invest/financialnews/Earnings_Releases/Teleconference.htm
Fourth Quarter Highlights Versus Prior Year
 
 
 
Full Year Highlights
 
 
 
LEHIGH VALLEY, Pa. (October 21, 2010)  Air Products (NYSE: APD) today reported income from continuing operations of $294 million, or diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $1.35, for its fiscal 2010 fourth quarter versus $246 million and $1.14, respectively, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. This result excludes an after-tax charge of $22 million, or $0.10 per share, for costs associated with the tender offer for the outstanding shares of Airgas, Inc.
The discussion of fourth quarter and full year results and guidance in this release is based on non-GAAP comparisons. A reconciliation can be found at the end of this release.*
Fourth quarter revenues of $2,351 million increased 10 percent versus prior year and four percent sequentially. Underlying revenues were up eight percent and three percent respectively. Operating income of $402 million rose 22 percent versus prior year and seven percent sequentially on higher volumes across all segments.
For fiscal 2010, sales of $9,026 million increased nine percent on higher volumes. Operating income of $1,485 million was up 25 percent, and diluted EPS of $5.02 increased 24 percent from the prior year.
John McGlade, chairman, president and chief executive officer, said, "We are very pleased by the excellent results and progress we made this year. In 2010, we emerged from the recession and delivered strong growth and productivity, which generated significant improvements in operating margin and return on capital. With this performance we are well positioned to achieve our 2011 goals. I want to thank our entire team for their hard work to deliver these results."
 
 
Fourth Quarter Segment Performance
 
 
 
 
Outlook
Looking ahead, McGlade said, "We expect a continued, gradual global economic recovery in 2011. Our focus will be on loading our existing assets, winning new business and continuing to lower our costs. We remain committed to delivering our 2011 targets of double digit earnings growth, improving return on capital and achieving a 17 percent operating margin."
The company today announced initial guidance for fiscal year 2011 EPS in the range of $5.50 to $5.70 per share, representing year-over-year earnings growth of 10 to 14 percent. For the first quarter of fiscal 2011 ending December 31, 2010, EPS is expected to be between $1.31 and $1.35 per share.
The company also announced that it expects capital spending in fiscal 2011 to be between $1.5 and $1.7 billion.
Air Products (NYSE:APD) serves customers in industrial, energy, technology and healthcare markets worldwide with a unique portfolio of atmospheric gases, process and specialty gases, performance materials, and equipment and services. Founded in 1940, Air Products has built leading positions in key growth markets such as semiconductor materials, refinery hydrogen, home healthcare services, natural gas liquefaction, and
 
 
advanced coatings and adhesives. The company is recognized for its innovative culture, operational excellence and commitment to safety and the environment. In fiscal 2010, Air Products had revenues of $9 billion, operations in over 40 countries, and 18,300 employees around the globe. For more information, visit .
www.airproducts.com
NOTE: This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including earnings guidance, projections and targets. These forward-looking statements are based on management's reasonable expectations and assumptions as of the date this Report is filed regarding important risk factors. Actual performance and financial results may differ materially from projections and estimates expressed in the forward-looking statements because of many factors not anticipated by management, including, without limitation, slowing of global economic recovery; renewed deterioration in economic and business conditions; weakening demand for the Company's products; future financial and operating performance of major customers and industries served by the Company; unanticipated contract terminations or customer cancellations or postponement of projects and sales; the success of commercial negotiations; asset impairments due to economic conditions or specific product or customer events; the impact of competitive products and pricing; interruption in ordinary sources of supply of raw materials; the ability to recover unanticipated increased energy and raw material costs from customers; costs and outcomes of litigation or regulatory activities; successful development and market acceptance of new products and applications, the ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel in all regions of the world where the Company operates; consequences of acts of war or terrorism impacting the United States and other markets; the effects of a natural disaster; the success of cost reduction and productivity programs and achieving anticipated acquisition synergies; the timing, impact, and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or divestitures; significant fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currencies from that currently anticipated; the continued availability of capital funding sources in all of the Company's foreign operations; the impact of environmental, healthcare, tax or other legislation and regulations in jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate; the impact of new or changed financial accounting guidance; the timing and rate at which tax credits can be utilized and other risk factors described in the Company's Form 10K for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2009. The Company disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this document to reflect any change in the Company's assumptions, beliefs or expectations or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances upon which any such forward-looking statements are based.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital Expenditures
The Company utilizes a non-GAAP measure in the computation of capital expenditures and includes spending associated with facilities accounted for as capital leases. Certain facilities that are built to provide product to a specific customer are required to be accounted for as capital leases and such spending is reflected as a use of cash within cash provided by operating activities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Millions of dollars, except for share data)
AIRGAS TRANSACTION
In February 2010, the Company commenced a tender offer to acquire all the outstanding common stock of Airgas, Inc. (Airgas), including the associated preferred stock purchase rights, for $60.00 per share in cash. Airgas, a Delaware company, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, specialty gases, and hardgoods. On 6 September 2010, the Company increased the value of its tender offer to $65.50 per share. The total value of the transaction would be approximately $7.4 billion, including $5.7 billion of equity and $1.7 billion of assumed debt. The offer and withdrawal rights are scheduled to expire on 29 October 2010, unless further extended.
In connection with this tender offer, the Company has secured committed financing in the form of a $6.7 billion term loan credit facility. Fees incurred to secure this credit facility have been deferred and are being amortized over the term of the arrangement.
For the three and twelve months ended 30 September 2010, $34.7 ($21.8 after-tax, or $.10 per share) and $96.0 ($60.1 after-tax, or $.28 per share), respectively, in expense was recognized related to this transaction and is included within acquisition-related costs on the consolidated income statement. This includes amortization of the fees related to the term loan credit facility and other acquisition-related costs.
 
 
The Company utilizes a non-GAAP measure in the computation of capital expenditures and includes spending associated with facilities accounted for as capital leases and purchases of noncontrolling interests. Certain contracts associated with facilities that are built to provide product to a specific customer are required to be accounted for as leases, and such spending is reflected as a use of cash within cash provided by operating activities. Additionally, the purchase of noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary is accounted for as an equity transaction and will be reflected as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
The presentation of this non-GAAP measure is intended to enhance the usefulness of information by providing a measure which the Company's management uses internally to evaluate and manage the Company's expenditures.
Below is a reconciliation of capital expenditures on a GAAP basis to a non-GAAP measure.
 
:
Media Inquiries
Robert Brown, tel: (610) 481-1192; e-mail: .
brownrf@airproducts.com
Investor Inquiries:
Simon Moore, tel: (610) 481-7461; e-mail: .
mooresr@airproducts.com


