FILE:APD/APD-8K-20100305170816.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01  
Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
On March 3, 2010, Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. (Air Products) entered into an amended and restated commitment letter (the Amended and Restated Commitment Letter) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and letters of accession (the Accession Letters) with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and RBS Securities Inc., Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Island Branch and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., BNP Paribas and BNP Paribas Securities Corp., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and HSBC Bank USA, N.A. and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. pursuant to which such banks joined the Amended and Restated Commitment Letter as parties.  Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Commitment Letter and these Accession Letters, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Island Branch, BNP Paribas, HSBC Bank USA, N.A. and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. have committed to provide a term loan credit facility to Air Products in an aggregate amount of up to $6.724 billion (the Acquisition Facility).  The Amended and Restated Commitment Letter replaces JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.s original commitment letter with respect to the Acquisition Facility (the Original Commitment Letter).  The terms and conditions of the Amended and Restated Commitment Letter with respect to the Acquisition Facility remain substantially the same as pursuant to the Original Commitment Letter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
5


