FILE:APD/APD-8K-20111021082033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (See General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 21, 2011, the company issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. The press release, including all financial statements, is furnished and is not deemed to be filed.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.
7201 Hamilton Boulevard
Allentown, PA 18195-1501
Access the Q4 earnings teleconference scheduled for 10:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on October 21 by calling (719) 457-2662 and entering passcode 9784651 or listen on the Web at
www.airproducts.com/en/investors/earnings-releases/teleconference-information.aspx
Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
Full Year Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
LEHIGH VALLEY, Pa. (October 21, 2011)  Air Products (NYSE: APD) today reported net income of $325 million, or diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $1.51, for its fiscal 2011 fourth quarter versus $294 million* and $1.35*, respectively, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.
The discussion of fourth quarter and full year results and guidance in this release is based on non-GAAP comparisons. A reconciliation can be found at the end of this release.*
Fourth quarter revenues of $2,611 million increased 11 percent versus prior year and one percent sequentially. Underlying revenues were up six percent and two percent respectively. Operating income of $425 million rose six percent versus prior year and two percent sequentially on improved volumes.
For fiscal 2011, sales of $10,082 million increased 12 percent, primarily driven by a nine percent volume increase. Operating income of $1,671 million was up 13 percent and diluted EPS of $5.73 increased 14 percent from the prior year.
Commenting on the results, John McGlade, chairman, president and CEO said, "This quarter's improvements were driven by growth in emerging markets and strong performance in our Tonnage Gases business. Overall economic activity for this quarter continued at the slower underlying growth rate we saw last quarter."
 
Reflecting on the year, McGlade said, "We achieved another solid year of key project wins, double digit sales and earnings growth despite a slowing global economy in the second half of 2011. More importantly, we saw strong gains in operating cash flow and we improved our most important measure, return on capital, by 80 basis points to 13.3% for the year."
Fourth Quarter Segment Performance
 
 
 
 
Outlook
Looking ahead, McGlade said, "While the near-term economic outlook is for continued slow growth and is clouded by global economic and policy uncertainties, we are well positioned with a large backlog of projects backed by signed customer contracts. We are confident that the prospects for industrial gases and Air Products, in particular, remain bright and we remain committed to achieving our 2015 goals for growth, margin and, most importantly, return on capital."
The company today announced initial guidance for fiscal year 2012 EPS in the range of $5.90 to $6.30 per share, representing year-over-year earnings growth of three to ten percent. For the first quarter of fiscal 2012 ending December 31, 2011, EPS is expected to be between $1.31 and $1.39 per share.
The company also announced that it expects capital spending in fiscal 2012 to be between $1.9 and $2.2 billion.
 
 
Air Products (NYSE:APD) serves customers in industrial, energy, technology and healthcare markets worldwide with a unique portfolio of atmospheric gases, process and specialty gases, performance materials, and equipment and services. Founded in 1940, Air Products has built leading positions in key growth markets such as semiconductor materials, refinery hydrogen, home healthcare services, natural gas liquefaction, and advanced coatings and adhesives. The company is recognized for its innovative culture, operational excellence and commitment to safety and the environment. In fiscal 2011, Air Products had revenues of $10.1 billion, operations in over 40 countries, and 18,900 employees around the globe. For more information, visit .
www.airproducts.com
NOTE: This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including earnings guidance, projections and targets. These forward-looking statements are based on management's reasonable expectations and assumptions as of the date of this release. Actual performance and financial results may differ materially from projections and estimates expressed in the forward-looking statements because of many factors not anticipated by management, including, without limitation, renewed deterioration in global economic and business conditions, including weakening demand for the Company's products and inability to maintain pricing; future financial and operating performance of major customers and industries served by the Company; unanticipated contract terminations or customer cancellations or postponement of projects and sales; the success of commercial negotiations; asset impairments due to economic conditions or specific product or customer events; the impact of competitive products and pricing; interruption in ordinary sources of supply of raw materials; the Company's ability to recover energy and raw material costs from customers; the Company's ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; costs and outcomes of litigation or regulatory activities; successful development and market acceptance of new products and applications, the ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel in all regions of the world where the Company operates; the success of cost reduction and productivity programs; the timing, impact, and other uncertainties of future acquisitions, divestitures and restructuring activities; significant fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currencies from that currently anticipated; the continued availability of capital funding sources in all of the Company's foreign operations; the impact of environmental, healthcare, tax or other legislation and regulations in jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate; the impact of new or changed financial accounting guidance; the timing and rate at which tax credits can be utilized and other risk factors described in the Company's Form 10K for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. The Company disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this document to reflect any change in the Company's assumptions, beliefs or expectations or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances upon which any such forward-looking statements are based.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
 
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)
ROCE is calculated as earnings after-tax divided by five-quarter average total capital. Earnings after-tax is defined as operating income and equity affiliates' income, after-tax at our quarterly effective tax rate. On a non-GAAP basis, operating income and taxes have been adjusted for the impact of the net loss on Airgas transaction. Total capital consists of total debt and total equity.
 
 
 
Capital Expenditures
We utilize a non-GAAP measure in the computation of capital expenditures and include spending associated with facilities accounted for as capital leases. Certain facilities that are built to provide product to a specific customer are required to be accounted for as capital leases and such spending is reflected as a use of cash within cash provided by operating activities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Millions of dollars, unless otherwise indicated)
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
A tax benefit of $8.9, or $.04 per share, has been recognized in income from discontinued operations for the twelve months ended 30 September 2011 as it relates to the previously divested healthcare business. This benefit resulted from the completion of an audit of tax years 2007 and 2008 by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. For additional historical information on the U.S. Healthcare divestiture, refer to our 2010 Form 10-K.
AIRGAS TRANSACTION
In February 2010, we commenced a tender offer to acquire all the outstanding common stock of Airgas, Inc. (Airgas), including the associated preferred stock purchase rights, for $60.00 per share in cash, less any required withholding tax. The offer was subject to certain terms and conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase dated 11 February 2010, as amended, including Airgas' redemption of the preferred stock purchase rights or such rights otherwise being inapplicable to our purchase of Airgas stock. Airgas, a Delaware company, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hard goods. On 9 December 2010, we increased the value of our tender offer to $70.00 per share. At this price, the total value of the transaction would have been approximately $7.8 billion, including $6.1 billion of equity and $1.7 billion of assumed debt. Based on a decision by the Delaware Chancery Court to uphold the decision of Airgas' board of directors to retain the preferred stock purchase rights, we withdrew our offer on 15 February 2011.
In connection with the tender offer, we had secured committed financing in the form of a $6.7 billion term loan credit facility. On 3 February 2011, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement providing for an amended $6.7 billion term loan credit facility with a maturity date of 4 June 2011. No additional underwriting fees were incurred in relation to the amended agreement. On 16 February 2011, in connection with the termination of the offer to purchase all outstanding shares of common stock of Airgas, the credit facility was terminated. No early termination penalties were incurred and all fees previously accrued and due under the credit facility were paid as of the date of termination.
Prior to the tender offer, we purchased approximately 1.5 million shares of Airgas stock for a total cost of $69.6. This amount was recorded as an available-for-sale investment within other noncurrent assets on the consolidated balance sheet. On 16 February 2011, we sold the 1.5 million shares of Airgas stock for total proceeds of $94.7 and recognized a gain of $25.1 ($15.9 after-tax, or $.07 per share).
For the twelve months ended 30 September 2011, a net loss of $48.5 ($31.6 after-tax, or $.14 per share) was recognized related to this transaction. This amount is reflected separately on the consolidated income statement as "Net loss on Airgas transaction" and includes amortization of the fees related to the term loan credit facility, the gain on the sale of Airgas stock, and other acquisition-related costs. For the twelve months ended 30 September 2011 and 2010, cash payments for the acquisition-related costs were $156.2 and $12.0, respectively. These payments are classified as operating activities on the consolidated statements of cash flows.
 
 
We utilize a non-GAAP measure in the computation of capital expenditures and include spending associated with facilities accounted for as capital leases and purchases of noncontrolling interests. Certain contracts associated with facilities that are built to provide product to a specific customer are required to be accounted for as leases, and such spending is reflected as a use of cash within cash provided by operating activities. Additionally, the purchase of noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary is accounted for as an equity transaction and will be reflected as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
The presentation of this non-GAAP measure is intended to enhance the usefulness of information by providing a measure which our management uses internally to evaluate and manage our expenditures.
Below is a reconciliation of capital expenditures on a GAAP basis to a non-GAAP measure.
 
:
Media Inquiries
George Noon, tel: (610) 481-1990; e-mail: .
noong@airproducts.com
:
Investor Inquiries
Simon Moore, tel: (610) 481-7461; e-mail: .
mooresr@airproducts.com
 


