FILE:APD/APD-8K-20110722083326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (See General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 22, 2011, the company issued a press release announcing its earnings for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. The press release, including all financial statements, is furnished and is not deemed to be filed.
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.
7201 Hamilton Boulevard
Allentown, PA 18195-1501
Access the Q3 earnings teleconference scheduled for 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on July 22 by calling 719-457-2635 and entering passcode 6688531 or listen on the Web at:
http://www.airproducts.com/en/investors/earnings-releases/teleconference-information.aspx
Highlights
 
 
 
LEHIGH VALLEY, Pa. (July 22, 2011)  Air Products (NYSE:APD) today reported net income from continuing operations of $318 million, up 15 percent* versus prior year, and diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations of $1.46, up 14 percent*, for its fiscal third quarter ended June 30, 2011.
These results exclude a $0.04 gain in discontinued operations recognizing a tax benefit from the sale of the company's U.S. healthcare operations in 2009. The discussion of third quarter results and guidance in this release excludes this item and is based on non-GAAP comparisons. A reconciliation can be found at the end of this release.*
Third quarter revenues of $2,578 million increased 14 percent from the prior year. On an underlying basis, sales were up seven percent on higher volumes primarily in the Electronics and Performance Materials and Tonnage segments. Operating income of $417 million rose 11 percent from the prior year on higher volumes.
John McGlade, chairman, president and chief executive officer, said, "We continued to see strong volume growth across a number of our businesses. Growth in the Asia Merchant business and more broadly in the energy and electronics markets was strong, while both the U.S. and Europe Merchant businesses were slower. This quarter, as expected, we saw a significant number of planned customer maintenance outages in our Tonnage segment. We remain very disappointed by the continued higher operating and maintenance costs in our Merchant segment and are taking the necessary steps to improve performance."
Third Quarter Segment Performance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter, McGlade said, "We anticipate continued strong revenue growth in our Tonnage and Electronics and Performance Materials segments. With the Tonnage planned maintenance outages behind us and the actions we are taking to improve Merchant performance, we expect margins to improve significantly in the quarter."
Air Products expects fourth quarter EPS to be between $1.48 and $1.53 per share and the full fiscal year EPS to be between $5.70 and $5.75 per share.
Last month, Air Products unveiled new financial targets for the 2015 timeframe. The company expects to deliver top line growth of 11 percent to 13 percent per year over the next four years, which would bring its total revenues to more than $15 billion in 2015. Air Products also expects to improve its operating margin to 20 percent and its return on capital to 15 percent by 2015.
Air Products (NYSE:APD) serves customers in industrial, energy, technology and healthcare markets worldwide with a unique portfolio of atmospheric gases, process and specialty gases, performance materials, and equipment and services. Founded in 1940, Air Products has built leading positions in key growth markets such as semiconductor materials, refinery hydrogen, home healthcare services, natural gas liquefaction, and advanced coatings and adhesives. The company is recognized for its innovative culture, operational excellence and commitment to safety and the environment. In fiscal 2010, Air Products had revenues of $9 billion, operations in over 40 countries, and 18,300 employees around the globe. For more information, visit .
www.airproducts.com
NOTE: This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including earnings guidance, projections and targets. These forward-looking statements are based on management's reasonable expectations and assumptions as of the date this release is issued regarding important risk factors. Actual
 
 
 
performance and financial results may differ materially from projections and estimates expressed in the forward-looking statements because of many factors not anticipated by management, including, without limitation, stalling of global economic recovery; renewed deterioration in economic and business conditions; weakening demand for the Company's products; future financial and operating performance of major customers and industries served by the Company; unanticipated contract terminations or customer cancellations or postponement of projects and sales; the success of commercial negotiations; asset impairments due to economic conditions or specific product or customer events; the impact of competitive products and pricing; interruption in ordinary sources of supply of raw materials; the ability to recover unanticipated increased energy and raw material costs from customers; costs and outcomes of litigation or regulatory actions; successful development and market acceptance of new products and applications; the ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel in all regions of the world where the Company operates; consequences of acts of war or terrorism impacting the United States and other markets; the effects of a natural disaster; the success of cost reduction and productivity programs and achieving anticipated acquisition synergies; the timing, impact, and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or divestitures; significant fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currencies from that currently anticipated; the continued availability of capital funding sources in all of the Company's foreign operations; the impact of environmental, healthcare, tax or other legislation and regulations in jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate; the impact of new or changed financial accounting guidance; the timing and rate at which tax credits can be utilized and other risk factors described in the Company's Form 10K for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. The Company disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this document to reflect any change in the Company's assumptions, beliefs or expectations or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances upon which any such forward-looking statements are based.
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Millions of dollars, unless otherwise indicated)
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
A tax benefit of $8.9, or $.04 per share, has been recognized in income from discontinued operations for the three and nine months ended 30 June 2011 as it relates to the previously divested healthcare business. This benefit resulted from the completion of an audit of tax years 2007 and 2008 by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. For additional historical information on the U.S. Healthcare divestiture, refer to our 2010 Form 10-K.
AIRGAS TRANSACTION
In February 2010, we commenced a tender offer to acquire all the outstanding common stock of Airgas, Inc. (Airgas), including the associated preferred stock purchase rights, for $60.00 per share in cash, less any required withholding tax. The offer was subject to certain terms and conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase dated 11 February 2010, as amended, including Airgas' redemption of the preferred stock purchase rights or such rights otherwise being inapplicable to our purchase of Airgas stock. Airgas, a Delaware company, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hard goods. On 9 December 2010, we increased the value of our tender offer to $70.00 per share. At this price, the total value of the transaction would have been approximately $7.8 billion, including $6.1 billion of equity and $1.7 billion of assumed debt. Based on a decision by the Delaware Chancery Court to uphold the decision of Airgas' board of directors to retain the preferred stock purchase rights, we withdrew our offer on 15 February 2011.
In connection with the tender offer, we had secured committed financing in the form of a $6.7 billion term loan credit facility. On 3 February 2011, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement providing for an amended $6.7 billion term loan credit facility with a maturity date of 4 June 2011. No additional underwriting fees were incurred in relation to the amended agreement. On 16 February 2011, in connection with the termination of the offer to purchase all outstanding shares of common stock of Airgas, the credit facility was terminated. No early termination penalties were incurred and all fees previously accrued and due under the credit facility were paid as of the date of termination.
Prior to the tender offer, we purchased approximately 1.5 million shares of Airgas stock for a total cost of $69.6. This amount was recorded as an available-for-sale investment within other noncurrent assets on the consolidated balance sheet. On 16 February 2011, we sold the 1.5 million shares of Airgas stock for total proceeds of $94.7 and recognized a gain of $25.1 ($15.9 after-tax, or $.07 per share).
For the nine months ended 30 June 2011, a net loss of $48.5 ($31.6 after-tax, or $.14 per share) was recognized related to this transaction. This amount is reflected separately on the consolidated income statement as "Net loss on Airgas transaction" and includes amortization of the fees related to the term loan credit facility, the gain on the sale of Airgas stock, and other acquisition-related costs. For the nine months ended 30 June 2011 and 2010, cash payments for the acquisition-related costs were $156.2 and $8.8, respectively. These payments are classified as operating activities on the consolidated statements of cash flows.
 
 
 
 
We utilize a non-GAAP measure in the computation of capital expenditures and include spending associated with facilities accounted for as capital leases. Certain contracts associated with facilities that are built to provide product to a specific customer are required to be accounted for as leases, and such spending is reflected as a use of cash within cash provided by operating activities. The presentation of this non-GAAP measure is intended to enhance the usefulness of information by providing a measure which our management uses internally to evaluate and manage our expenditures.
Below is a reconciliation of capital expenditures on a GAAP basis to a non-GAAP measure.
 
:
Media Inquiries
Robert Brown, tel: (610) 481-1192; e-mail: .
brownrf@airproducts.com
:
Investor Inquiries
Simon Moore, tel: (610) 481-7461; e-mail: .
mooresr@airproducts.com
 
 
 


