FILE:APD/APD-8K-20120724091035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (See General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 24, 2012, the company issued a press release announcing its earnings for the third quarter of fiscal year 2012. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. The press release, including all financial statements, is furnished and is not deemed to be filed.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Air Products and Chemical, Inc
7201 Hamilton Boulevard, Allentown, PA 18195-1501
www.airproducts.com
Third Quarter Summary
 
LEHIGH VALLEY, Pa. (July 24, 2012)  Air Products (NYSE:APD) today reported net income of $303 million* and diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $1.41* on a non-GAAP, continuing operations basis, for its fiscal third quarter ended June 30, 2012. This excludes a $.25 per share gain associated with acquiring the additional 50 percent equity interest in Air Products' existing DA NanoMaterials joint venture.
Results from discontinued operations of $.60 per share include a gain of $.70 per share associated with the sale of the Continental Europe Homecare business. These results also include a $.14 per share impairment associated with the planned disposal of the remaining Homecare business, primarily in the UK, and the income from the remaining Homecare business of $.04 per share.
On a GAAP basis, including discontinued operations, income and diluted EPS for the quarter were $485 million and $2.26 respectively.
The discussion of third quarter results and guidance in this release is based on non-GAAP continuing operations comparisons that exclude these items. A reconciliation can be found at the end of this release.*
Third Quarter Financial Results
Third quarter revenues of $2,340 million decreased five percent versus prior year, primarily on lower energy pass-through and a stronger dollar. Underlying sales were up one percent, largely due to higher pricing in the Merchant Gases segment. Operating income of $397 million was up two percent on improved cost performance, partially offset by a stronger dollar. Operating margin of 17 percent increased 130 basis points versus prior year.
Sequentially, while overall sales were unchanged, underlying sales grew one percent due to higher volumes. Better cost performance drove operating income up six percent and operating margin increased 100 basis points sequentially.
Commenting on the quarter, John McGlade, chairman, president and chief executive officer, said, "Economic growth this quarter was below what we expected in Asia, Europe and Electronics. Despite headwinds from the economy and a stronger dollar, we were able to deliver earnings within expectations due to excellent cost performance. In addition, we recently executed several key strategic activities, including the purchase of our majority position in Indura, taking full ownership of our DA NanoMaterials joint venture and the sale of our Continental Europe Homecare business."
 
 
 
Third Quarter Segment Performance
 
Sequentially, sales decreased one percent, due to a stronger dollar. Sequential operating income increased eight percent and margins of 18.8% were up 160 basis points on better cost performance.
 
 
 
Outlook
Looking ahead, McGlade said, "The current economic uncertainty continues to impact our near-term volume growth. To offset this, we will continue to deliver productivity and cost reduction to the bottom line. In the longer-term, we remain confident in the growth prospects for industrial gases and Air Products. Our recent Indura and DA NanoMaterials acquisitions and Homecare portfolio actions demonstrate our emphasis on execution and position us well for future growth and profitability."
Air Products expects fourth quarter adjusted EPS from continuing operations to be between $1.42 and $1.47 per share. The company's adjusted guidance for continuing operations for fiscal 2012 is $5.40 to $5.45 per share.
719-457-2677 a1110494,
Access the Q3 earnings teleconference scheduled for 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on July 24 by calling
nd entering pass code
or listen on the Web at:
http://phx.corporate-ir.net/staging/phoenix.zhtml?c=92444&p=Teleconference
Air Products (NYSE:APD) provides atmospheric, process and specialty gases; performance materials; equipment; and technology. For over 70 years, the company has enabled customers to become more productive, energy efficient and sustainable. More than 18,000 employees in over 40 countries supply innovative solutions to the energy, environment and emerging markets. These include semiconductor materials, refinery hydrogen, coal gasification, natural gas liquefaction, and advanced coatings and adhesives. In fiscal 2011, Air Products had sales of approximately $10 billion. For more information, visit .
www.airproducts.com
 
 
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about earnings guidance, projections, targets and business outlook. These forward-looking statements are based on management's reasonable expectations and assumptions as of the date of this release. Actual performance and financial results may differ materially from projections and estimates expressed in the forward-looking statements because of many factors not anticipated by management, including, without limitation, deterioration in global or regional economic and business conditions; weakening demand for the Company's products and services; future financial and operating performance of major customers; unanticipated contract terminations or customer cancellations or postponement of projects and sales; the success of commercial negotiations; asset impairments or losses due to a decline in profitability of or demand for certain of the Company's products or businesses, or specific product or customer events; the impact of competitive products and pricing; interruption in ordinary sources of supply of raw materials; the ability to recover unanticipated increased energy and raw material costs from customers; costs and outcomes of litigation or regulatory activities; successful development and market acceptance of new products and applications; the ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel in all regions of the world where the Company operates; the success of productivity programs; the success and impact of restructuring and cost reduction initiatives; achieving anticipated acquisition synergies; the timing, impact, and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or divestitures; significant fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currencies from that currently anticipated; the continued availability of capital funding sources for all of the Company's foreign operations; the impact of environmental, healthcare, tax or other legislation and regulations in jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate; the impact of new or changed financial accounting guidance; the impact on the effective tax rate of changes in the mix of earnings among our U.S. and international operations; and other risk factors described in the Company's Form 10K for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. The Company disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this document to reflect any change in the Company's assumptions, beliefs or expectations or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances upon which any such forward-looking statements are based.
Note:
:
Media Inquiries
George Noon, tel: (610) 481-1990; e-mail: .
noong@airproducts.com
Investor Inquiries:
Simon Moore, tel: (610) 481-7461; e-mail: .
mooresr@airproducts.com
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ELECTRONICS AND PERFORMANCE MATERIALS
 
 
Capital Expenditures
We utilize a non-GAAP measure in the computation of capital expenditures and include spending associated with facilities accounted for as capital leases. Certain facilities that are built to provide product to a specific customer are required to be accounted for as capital leases and such spending is reflected as a use of cash within cash provided by operating activities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Millions of dollars, unless otherwise indicated)
1. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
In January 2012, the Board of Directors authorized the sale of our Homecare business, which had previously been reported as part of the Merchant Gases operating segment.
On 8 January 2012, we reached an agreement for The Linde Group to purchase our Homecare business in Belgium, Germany, France, Portugal and Spain. This business represented approximately 80% of our total Homecare business revenues.
The transaction with Linde closed on 30 April 2012. Total sale proceeds of 590 million ($777) were received in cash at closing. This amount included contingent proceeds of 110 million ($144) related to the outcome of certain retender arrangements. The gain related to the contingent proceeds is deferred in other noncurrent liabilities and will be recognized in the results of discontinued operations when the contingencies are resolved and the final proceeds are realized per the terms of the agreement. We will also be entitled to receive up to 32 million ($42) of additional cash proceeds based upon collection of accounts receivable. A gain of $207.4 ($150.3 after-tax, or $.70 per share) was recognized on the sale of this business in the third quarter of fiscal year 2012.
We are actively marketing the remaining portion of the Homecare business, which is primarily in the United Kingdom. We expect to close on the sale of this business before the end of calendar 2012. In the third quarter of 2012, we recorded an impairment charge of $33.5 ($29.5 after-tax, or $.14 per share) to write down the remaining business to its estimated net realizable value. Additional charges may be recorded in future periods dependent upon the timing and method of ultimate disposition.
The Homecare business is being accounted for as a discontinued operation. The results of operations and cash flows of this business have been removed from the results of continuing operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of discontinued operations have been reclassified and are segregated in the consolidated balance sheets.
2. COST REDUCTION PLAN
During the second quarter ended 31 March 2012, we initiated a cost reduction plan. The results from continuing operations for the nine months ended 30 June 2012 include a charge of $86.8 ($60.6 after-tax, or $.28 per share) for this plan. This charge represents the ongoing actions we are taking to improve our cost structure, particularly in Europe. The plan includes removing the stranded costs resulting from our decision to exit the Homecare business, the reorganization of the Merchant business and the actions we are taking to right-size our European business cost structure in light of the challenging economic outlook.
This charge includes $80.8 for severance and other costs associated with the elimination of approximately 600 positions from our workforce. The remainder of the charge, $6.0, is related to the write-down of certain assets. The planned actions are expected to be completed by the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2013. The charge for the cost reduction plan is excluded from segment operating profit. The charge relates to the businesses at the segment level as follows: $77.3 in Merchant Gases, $3.8 in Tonnage Gases, and $5.7 in Electronics and Performance Materials.
3. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
DuPont Air Products NanoMaterials LLC
On 29 February 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement with E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Co., Inc. to acquire their 50% interest in our joint venture, DuPont Air Products NanoMaterials LLC (DA NanoMaterials). DA NanoMaterials' revenues for calendar year 2011 were approximately $90.
The acquisition closed on 2 April 2012 for $158 ($147 net of cash acquired of $11), subject to working capital adjustments, and was accounted for as a business combination. Beginning in the third quarter of 2012, the results of DA NanoMaterials were consolidated within our Electronics and Performance Materials business segment.
Prior to the acquisition date, we accounted for our 50% interest in DA NanoMaterials as an equity-method investment. The three and nine months ended 30 June 2012 include a gain of $85.9 ($54.6 after-tax, or $.25 per share) as a result of revaluing our previously held equity interest to fair market value as of the acquisition date. This gain is reflected on the consolidated income statements as "Gain on previously held equity interest."
 
 
 
SUBSEQUENT EVENT- Indura S.A.
On 1 July 2012, we acquired a 51.8% controlling equity interest in the outstanding shares of Indura S.A., from the majority shareholder. On 3 July 2012, we acquired an additional 13.0% equity interest from other shareholders. We paid cash consideration in Chilean pesos (CLP) of 345.9 billion ($699) and assumed debt of CLP97.0 billion ($196) for these interests. This preliminary purchase price is subject to working capital and debt adjustments which have not yet been completed. Under the purchase agreement, we have a commitment to purchase up to an additional 2.0% equity interest within the next twelve months. The agreement also provides the largest minority shareholder a right to exercise a put option to require Air Products to purchase up to a 30.5% equity interest during the two-year period beginning on 1 July 2015, at a redemption value equal to fair market value (subject to a minimum price per share linked to the original acquisition date value escalated by an inflation factor). Founded in 1948, Indura S.A. is the largest independent industrial gas company in South America. Indura S.A.'s integrated gas and retail business comprises packaged gases and hardgoods, liquid bulk, healthcare and on-sites. Indura S.A.'s revenues for calendar year 2011 were approximately $480.
4. INCOME TAXES
Q1 Spanish Tax Settlement
We were challenged by the Spanish tax authorities over income tax deductions taken by certain of our Spanish subsidiaries during fiscal years 2005-2011. Although we continue to believe that all positions taken were compliant with applicable laws, in November 2011 we reached a settlement with the Spanish tax authorities for 41.3 million ($56) in resolution of all tax issues under examination. Of this settlement, $43.8 ($.20 per share) increased our income tax expense and had a 3.8% impact on our effective tax rate for the nine months ended 30 June 2012. The cash payment for the settlement was principally paid in January 2012.
Q2 Spanish Tax Ruling
As of 30 September 2011, our unrecognized tax benefits included an amount related to certain transactions of a Spanish subsidiary for years 1991 and 1992, a period before we controlled this subsidiary. In March 2009, the Spanish appeals court (Audiencia Nacional) ruled in favor of our Spanish subsidiary. The Spanish government appealed this court decision to the Spanish Supreme Court, and as a result, we did not reverse the liability accrued for these unrecognized tax benefits. On 25 January 2012, the Spanish Supreme Court released its decision affirming the decision of the Audiencia Nacional in favor of our Spanish subsidiary. As a result, in the second quarter of 2012, we recorded a reduction in income tax expense of $58.3 ($.27 per share), including interest and penalties, and a reduction in unrecognized tax benefits. The reduction in income tax expense had a 5.1% impact on our effective tax rate for the nine months ended 30 June 2012.
 
 
 
We utilize a non-GAAP measure in the computation of capital expenditures and include spending associated with facilities accounted for as capital leases and purchases of noncontrolling interests. Certain contracts associated with facilities that are built to provide product to a specific customer are required to be accounted for as leases, and such spending is reflected as a use of cash within cash provided by operating activities, if the arrangement qualifies as a capital lease. Additionally, the purchase of noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary is accounted for as an equity transaction and will be reflected as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
The presentation of this non-GAAP measure is intended to enhance the usefulness of information by providing a measure which our management uses internally to evaluate and manage our expenditures.
Below is a reconciliation of capital expenditures on a GAAP basis to a non-GAAP measure.
 


