FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20021011151005.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM 9.    OTHER EVENTS
     The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to file BB&T Corporation's Quarterly Performance Summary for the third quarter of 2002.
EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit 99.1 Quarterly Performance Summary issued October 11, 2002
October 11, 2002
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
BB&T's earnings increase 18.5% in 3rd quarter
          WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  BB&T Corporation (NYSE:BBT) reported today record earnings for the third quarter of 2002 totaling $336.0 million, excluding merger-related charges. These earnings reflect an increase of 18.5% compared with $283.5 million earned in the third quarter of 2001. Diluted earnings per share for the current quarter were $.70 excluding merger-related charges, an increase of 12.9% compared with $.62 earned during the third quarter last year.
          The merger-related charges for the third quarter of 2002, which totaled $7.8 million on an after-tax basis, resulted primarily from the acquisitions and systems integrations of AREA Bancshares Corporation and MidAmerica Bancorp.
          BB&T's third quarter 2002 annualized returns on average assets and average shareholders' equity were 1.72% and 18.09%, respectively, excluding merger-related charges, compared with prior year ratios of 1.62% and 19.05%, respectively.
          Cash basis operating results exclude the effects of intangible assets and related amortization expenses. Excluding merger-related charges, cash basis earnings totaled $340.3 million for the third quarter of 2002, or $.71 per diluted share. These results reflect increases of 13.2% in cash basis earnings and 9.2% in cash basis diluted earnings per share compared with prior year results. Cash basis earnings for the current quarter produced an annualized return on average tangible assets of 1.78%, and an annualized return on average tangible shareholders' equity of 23.72%.
          Including merger-related charges, net income for the third quarter of 2002 totaled $328.2 million compared with $222.0 million earned in the third quarter of 2001, an increase of 47.8%. On a diluted per share basis, net income for the quarter was $.68, up 41.7% compared with $.48 earned in the comparable period in 2001. Net income for the third quarter generated an annualized return on average assets of 1.68% and an annualized return on average shareholders' equity of 17.66% compared with prior year ratios of 1.27% and 14.92%, respectively. For the first nine months of 2002, net income totaled $965.8 million, an increase of 38.8% compared with $695.7 million earned in the first nine months of 2001. On a diluted per share basis, year-to-date earnings were $2.02, up 33.8% compared with last year.
          "I am pleased to announce solid third quarter results, particularly given the sluggish business conditions," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John A. Allison. "The economy has been marked by slower commercial loan growth, increased levels of credit losses and nonperforming assets, and record volumes of mortgage refinance activity, which produce writedowns in mortgage servicing assets. In the face of all these challenges, BB&T has performed remarkably well."
          For the first nine months of 2002, BB&T's earnings were $974.2 million, or $2.04 per diluted share, excluding $18.2 million of after-tax merger-related charges and $9.8 million of net income resulting from the implementation of a new accounting principle during the first quarter. These earnings reflect increases of 19.9% and 15.3%, respectively, compared with 2001. Earnings for the nine months ended Sept. 30, excluding merger-related charges and the cumulative effect of adopting a new accounting standard, generated an annualized return on average assets of 1.74% and an annualized return on average shareholders' equity of 18.60%, compared with prior year ratios of 1.59% and 19.11%, respectively.
Noninterest Income Growth Drives Performance
          Total noninterest income was $422.2 million for the third quarter of 2002, an increase of 25.4% compared with the same period in 2001. This increase was primarily driven by service charges on deposits, agency insurance commissions, trust revenues and investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions.
          Income from service charges on deposit accounts totaled $104.8 million for the third quarter, an increase of 18.6% compared with the same period in 2001. This increase resulted from growth in commercial account analysis fees, service charge revenues from acquired banks and growth in deposit accounts and transaction volume.
          BB&T's revenues from insurance operations totaled $76.5 million in the third quarter of 2002, up 73.4% compared with the third quarter last year. This significant increase reflects a number of acquisitions during the last quarter of 2001 and during 2002, the largest of which was the Jan. 1 purchase of CRC Insurance Services, Inc., BB&T's wholesale insurance brokerage subsidiary.
          Trust revenues totaled $27.4 million during the third quarter, an increase of 19.4% compared to the same period last year. Higher fees from asset and estate management produced this healthy growth during the quarter.
          Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions totaled $47.9 million for the quarter, an increase of 9.9% compared with the third quarter last year. This increase resulted from higher fixed income securities underwriting fees, retail brokerage fees and investment banking income.
          BB&T's income from mortgage banking operations reflects a net loss of $59.5 million for the third quarter caused by a $130.8 million writedown in capitalized mortgage servicing rights. The writedown was due to continued declines in mortgage rates and resulting high volumes of mortgage refinance activity. The writedown in servicing rights was offset by gains from sales of securities available for sale.
          "Throughout the current economic slowdown, our noninterest income generating businesses have produced strong results," said Allison. "This performance can be attributed to BB&T's focus on integrated relationship management  identifying and providing the services our clients need. Our sales culture provides a distinct competitive advantage in periods of economic growth as well as more challenging business conditions."
Average Loans Increase 9.4%
          BB&T's loan and lease portfolio averaged $51.6 billion for the third quarter, an increase of 9.4% compared to the third quarter of 2001. Average commercial loans and leases increased 11.9% over this time frame, and average consumer loans also increased 11.9%. Average mortgage loans for the third quarter of 2002 decreased slightly compared to the same period last year, a result of sales of mortgage loans. Excluding acquisitions since the third quarter of 2001, average loans increased 1.3% in the current quarter compared to the prior year.
Nonperforming Assets and Loan Losses Increase Due to Sluggish Economy
          BB&T's total nonperforming assets and loan charge-offs increased during the third quarter. Nonperforming assets as a percentage of total assets were .54% at Sept. 30, up from .45% at the end of the third quarter of 2001, but relatively stable compared to the last three quarters. Annualized net charge-offs were .49% of average loans and leases for the third quarter of 2002, compared with .37% for the third quarter last year. Excluding losses at BB&T's specialized lending subsidiaries, annualized net charge-offs for the third quarter of 2002 were .40% of average loans and leases. Compared with the most recent industry data released by the FDIC, BB&T's nonperformers and charge-offs continue to be approximately half that of the industry.
BB&T Expands in Fast-Growing Markets
          On Sept. 27, BB&T announced plans to acquire Equitable Bank of Wheaton, Md. The acquisition expands BB&T's presence in the fast-growing and economically dynamic Maryland suburbs of Washington, D.C. Equitable has approximately $477 million in assets and operates five full-service banking offices in Montgomery and Prince George's counties. BB&T is the fifth largest bank in metro Washington, D.C., in terms of deposit market share.
          On Oct. 3, plans were announced to acquire FloridaFirst Bancorp of Lakeland, Fla. FloridaFirst has approximately $812 million in assets and operates 18 full-service banking offices in Polk, Manatee, Highlands and Sumter counties in central Florida and along the west central coast. The planned transaction builds on BB&T's recently completed acquisition of Regional Financial Corp., the parent company for First South Bank, a $1.6 billion financial institution based in Tallahassee, Fla., with offices in the Florida Panhandle, Jacksonville, and along the Gulf Coast from Beverly Hills to Naples. These acquisitions represent the first steps in BB&T's plans to build a strong presence in Florida, one of America's most economically attractive and fastest growing states.
          On Sept. 18, BB&T announced plans to acquire Piedmont Brokerage Services LLC, a professional liability specialist based in High Point, N.C. Piedmont Brokerage Services' specialty lines include liability coverage for directors and officers, errors and omissions policies, and employment practices liability.
          On July 1, BB&T completed its acquisition of Hunt, DuPree, Rhine & Associates Inc., an employee benefits and investment advisory firm based in Greenville, S.C. The firm was combined with W.E. Stanley, the Greensboro, N.C.-based actuarial and employee benefits consulting company BB&T acquired in 1998. The combined company offers group medical plans, insurance and investment consulting, actuarial services, benefit communications, and 401(k) and Section 125 flexible benefits programs.
           BB&T Insurance Services announced plans to acquire two high-quality insurance agencies. On Oct. 1, plans were announced to acquire Landrum-Yaeger & Associates Inc. of Tallahassee, Fla., providing BB&T's insurance subsidiary with its initial presence in Florida. On Oct. 4, BB&T said it would expand its South Carolina insurance operations through the acquisition of Carolina Insurance Consultants, of Greenville.
          Also during the third quarter, BB&T successfully completed the systems integrations of AREA Bancshares of Owensboro, Ky., and MidAmerica Bancorp of Louisville, Ky. These acquisitions make BB&T the third largest financial institution in Kentucky.
          At Sept. 30, BB&T had $78.2 billion in assets and operated more than 1,100banking offices in the Carolinas, Virginia, West Virginia, Kentucky, Georgia, Maryland, Tennessee, Florida, Alabama, Indiana and Washington, D.C. BB&T's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol BBT. The closing price of BB&T's common stock on Oct. 10 was $33.04 per share.
          For additional information about BB&T's financial performance, company news, and products and services, please visit our web site at .
www.BBandT.com
           To hear a live webcast of BB&T's third quarter 2002 earnings conference call at 10 a.m. today, please visit our web site at . Replays of the conference call will be available through our web site until 5 p.m. (EDT) Oct. 25.
www.BBandT.com
          
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections. Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a summary of important factors that could affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this press release.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:       October 11, 2002


