FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20020522103505.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Certain of the ratios discussed above may be annualized if the applicable periods are less than a full year.
ITEM 9.    REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to announce the signing of a definitive agreement for BB&T to acquire Regional Financial Corporation of Tallahassee, Florida, holding company for First South Bank.
BB&T to acquire First South Bank parent Regional Financial Corp. of Tallahassee, Fla.
          WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) today said it plans to buy privately held Regional Financial Corporation of Tallahassee, Fla., in a $274.6 million stock swap. The acquisition would give BB&T entry into Florida.
          Regional Financial Corporation is the holding company for First South Bank, a $1.6 billion thrift and one of the largest mortgage originators in Florida. First South operates 11 full-service retail branches, three limited-service branches, and eight mortgage loan production offices in Tallahassee and the Florida Panhandle, Jacksonville, and along the Gulf Coast from Beverly Hills to Naples.
          BB&T will issue 7.265 million shares of its stock in exchange for all outstanding shares of Regional Financial Corporation. The transaction has been approved by the directors of both companies. The transaction value is based on BB&T's closing price Tuesday of $37.80.
          "This is an important acquisition because it gives us entry into some of Florida's most economically attractive markets and provides a firm foundation for future expansion in one of the nation's fastest growing states," said BB&T Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Allison.
          "First South Bank is certainly a high-performing organization with a compatible culture, excellent credit quality and client service, and a very visible presence in the markets it serves."
          In 2001, First South was the No. 3 residential lender and the No. 1 construction lender in the counties it serves. It was acquired by Regional Financial Corporation in 1995.
          First South holds the No. 1 deposit market share in the zip codes in which it provides deposit services. Its overall footprint covers the northeast portion of the state from Fernandina Beach through Jacksonville to St. Augustine. It has a major presence in west Florida in Tallahassee, Pensacola, Ft. Walton, Destin and Panama City. And it has a strong southwest presence beginning in Ocala and Beverly Hills and moving south through Spring Hill, New Port Richey, Holiday, Clearwater, Bradenton, Sarasota, Venice, Ft. Myers and Naples.
          First South customers in those markets will be introduced to BB&T's strong branch-based sales culture and its broad product and services line, including insurance, mutual funds, trust, online banking, annuities, investment banking, retail brokerage, treasury services, leasing and international banking.
          "Since real estate is Florida's primary business, our highly focused business model has been very efficient," said First South Chief Executive Officer Edgar Moore. "But the great thing about this merger is the many cross-selling opportunities that will come from leveraging our customer base.
          "BB&T's unique community banking structure and highly attentive approach to client service will be the perfect complement to our brand of relationship-driven banking."
          BB&T will add a Tallahassee-based community bank region to its network. First South President William T. Mattice will serve as the new region's president. BB&T divides its 10-state banking network into autonomous regions which operate like community banks. Nearly all lending decisions are made locally.
          Wyndham M. Manning, First South's senior executive vice president of Mortgage Lending, will serve as mortgage lending manager of the new region.
          BB&T also will create an area advisory board for the new region. First South board members will be asked to serve on the new board.
          More jobs were created in Florida in 2001 than any other state in the nation. In 2000, Florida ranked first in the Southeast and fourth in the nation in total personal income.
          The merger, which is subject to regulatory and Regional Financial Corporation shareholder approval, is expected to be completed in the third quarter.
          Winston-Salem-based BB&T Corporation operates more than 1,100 banking offices in the Carolinas, Georgia, Virginia, Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, Indiana and Washington, D.C.
          With $74.9 billion in assets as of March 31, BB&T Corporation is the nation's 13th largest financial holding company. Barron's, a Dow Jones weekly, recently ranked BB&T as the second highest performing financial institution in the country. More information is available at www.BBandT.com.
          
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections.
          
Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a summary of important factors that could affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this press release.
          
BB&T's news releases are available at no charge through PR Newswire's Company News On-Call facsimile service. For a menu of BB&T's news releases or to retrieve a specific release call 1-800-758-5804, extension 809325.
          
A registration statement relating to any future resale of the shares issued in this acquisition will be filed with the SEC after the closing of the private placement in connection with this acquisition. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time that the registration statement becomes effective.
          
This announcement shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state. Any offering of BB&T securities under the resale registration statement will be made only by means of a prospectus.
BB&T has made forward-looking statements in the accompanying analyst presentation materials that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of the management of BB&T, and on the information available to management at the time the analyst presentation materials were prepared. In particular, the analyst materials in this report include statements regarding estimated earnings per share of BB&T on a stand alone basis, expected cost savings from the merger, estimated restructuring charges relating to the merger, estimated increases in Regional Financial Corporation's fee income ratio, the anticipated accretive effect of the merger, and BB&T's anticipated performance in future periods. With respect to estimated cost savings and restructuring charges, BB&T has made assumptions about, among other things, the extent of operational overlap between BB&T and Regional Financial Corporation, the amount of general and administrative expense consolidation, costs relating to converting Regional Financial Corporation's bank operations and data processing to BB&T's systems, the size of anticipated reductions in fixed labor costs, the amount of severance expenses, the extent of the charges that may be necessary to align the companies' respective accounting reserve policies, and the cost related to the merger. The realization of cost savings and the amount of restructuring charges are subject to the risk that the foregoing assumptions are inaccurate.
Any statements in the accompanying exhibit regarding the anticipated accretive effect of the merger and BB&T's anticipated performance in future periods are subject to risks relating to, among other things, the following possibilities: (1) expected cost savings from this merger or other previously announced mergers may not be fully realized or realized within the expected time frame; (2) deposit attrition, customer loss or revenue loss following proposed mergers may be greater than expected; (3) competitive pressure among depository and other financial institutions may increase significantly; (4) costs or difficulties related to the integration of the businesses of BB&T and its merger partners, including Regional Financial Corporation, may be greater than expected; (5) changes in the interest rate environment may reduce margins; (6) general economic or business conditions, either nationally or regionally, may be less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality, or a reduced demand for credit; (7) legislative or regulatory changes, including changes in accounting standards, may adversely affect the businesses in which BB&T and Regional Financial Corporation are engaged; (8) adverse changes may occur in the securities markets; and (9) competitors of BB&T and Regional Financial Corporation may have greater financial resources and develop products that enable such competitors to compete more successfully than BB&T and Regional Financial Corporation.
BB&T believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. Such statements are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The future results and shareholder value of BB&T following completion of the merger may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results and values are beyond management's ability to control or predict.
2
3
* Recurring earnings
4
*Recurring earnings
5
*Based on closing prices as of 05/21/02
6
7
*Based on BB&T's closing stock price of $37.80 as of 05/21/02
8
9
*Source for Acquisition Comparables: SNL Financial
10
11
*Recurring earnings
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Source: eflorida.com
21
22
23
24
1 The decrease in ROE results from the build up in equity relative to assets. If consistent with attaining and maintaining a leverage capital ratio of at least 7%, BB&T may choose to leverage the balance sheet further through repurchase of its stock.
25
26
*BB&T's goal is to manage its leverage ratio to between 7% and 8%
27
28
29
Regional Financial Corporation
Financial Summary
30
Regional Financial Corporation
Financial Summary
31
Regional Financial Corporation
Financial Summary
32
Return on Assets  recurring earnings for the period as a percentage of average assets for the period.
Return on Equity  recurring earnings for the period as a percentage of average common equity for the period.
Cash Basis Performance Results and Ratios  These calculations exclude the effect on net income of amortization expense applicable to certain intangible assets. The ratios also exclude the effect of the unamortized balances of these intangibles from assets and equity.
Efficiency Ratio  calculated as recurring noninterest expense as a percentage of the sum of recurring net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis and recurring noninterest income.
Leverage Capital Ratio  Common shareholders' equity excluding unrealized securities gains and losses and certain intangible assets as a percentage of average assets for the most recent quarter less certain intangible assets.
Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio  The sum of shareholders' equity, a qualifying portion of subordinated debt and a qualifying portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Net Charge-Off Ratio  Loan losses net of recoveries as a percentage of average loans and leases.
Internal Rate of Return  The interest rate that equates the present value of future returns to the investment outlay. An investment is considered acceptable if its IRR exceeds the required return. The investment is defined as the market value of the stock and/or other consideration to be received by the selling shareholders.
Recurring Results or Ratios  earnings excluding charges and expenses principally related to completing mergers and acquisitions.
33
A registration statement relating to any future resales of the shares issued in this acquisition will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) after the closing of the private placement in connection with this acquisition. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time that the registration statement becomes effective. This announcement shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such State. Any offering of BB&T securities under the resale registration statement will be made only by means of a prospectus.
In addition to the proposed registration statement, BB&T files annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information filed by BB&T at the SEC's public reference rooms at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC's other public reference rooms in New York, New York and Chicago, Illinois. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. BB&T's filings with the SEC are also available to the public from commercial document-retrieval services and on the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov.
34
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 22, 2002
35


