FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20020927143726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
*Based on BB&T's closing stock price of $36.18 as of 09/26/02
ITEM 9.    REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to announce the signing of a definitive agreement for BB&T to acquire Equitable Bank of Wheaton, Maryland and to furnish the related information provided to analysts.
BB&T to acquire Equitable Bank of Wheaton, Md.
          WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. - BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) today said it plans to buy Equitable Bank (NASDAQ: EQSB) of Wheaton, Md., in a $52.6 million stock swap. The acquisition would expand BB&T's presence in fast-growing Maryland suburbs of Washington, D.C.
          Equitable, with $477 million in assets as of June 30, operates five full-service banking offices in Montgomery and Prince George's counties.
          The transaction, approved by the directors of both companies, is valued at $36.18 per Equitable share based on BB&T's closing price Thursday of $36.18. The exchange ratio will be fixed at one BB&T share for each Equitable share.
          "Equitable Bank is a customer-oriented and service-driven financial services company," said BB&T Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Allison. "They will fit nicely into our community banking structure where nearly all decisions are made at the local level. This transaction also will enhance our market presence in the strategically important metro Washington area."
          BB&T has the No. 5 market share in metro Washington, D.C., the nation's leader in per capita income. The Washington-Baltimore metropolitan statistical area is the fourth largest in the country.
          Founded in 1879, Equitable converted from a mutual savings and loan association to a publicly owned institution in 1993. Earnings were up 69 percent at Equitable for the nine-month period ending June 30.
          In addition to its Wheaton headquarters, Equitable operates two banking offices in Silver Spring and one each in Rockville and Beltsville. Maryland, with a strong high tech industrial base, has the second highest median household income in the U.S.
          Equitable customers will be introduced to BB&T's strong branch-based sales culture and its broad product and services line, including insurance, mutual funds, trust, online banking, annuities, investment banking, retail brokerage, treasury services, leasing and international banking.
          "Just like BB&T, we have a very long heritage based on the belief that our primary mission is to do absolutely everything we can to help our clients realize their financial dreams," said Equitable Chief Executive Officer Timothy Veith.
          "By joining forces with BB&T, we'll be able to offer our customers all the products and services and convenience that the nation's 14th largest financial services institution can provide. And BB&T's unique community banking structure will allow us to continue to make nearly all of our own decisions. The best of both worlds."
          BB&T divides its 11-state banking network into autonomous regions which operate like community banks.
          Equitable board members will be asked to serve on local BB&T regional advisory boards.
          The merger, which is subject to regulatory and Equitable Bank shareholder approval, is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2003.
          Winston-Salem-based BB&T Corporation operates more than 1,100 banking offices in the Carolinas, Georgia, Virginia, Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Florida, Alabama, Indiana and Washington, D.C.
          With $76.3 billion in assets as of June 30, BB&T Corp. is the nation's 14th largest financial holding company. Barron's, a Dow Jones weekly, ranks BB&T as the second highest performing financial institution in the country. More information is available at www.BBandT.com.
          
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections.
          
Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a summary of important factors that could affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this press release.
          
BB&T's news releases are available at no charge through PR Newswire's Company News On-Call facsimile service. For a menu of BB&T's news releases or to retrieve a specific release call 1-800-758-5804, extension 809325.
          
The foregoing may be deemed to be offering materials of BB&T Corporation in connection with BB&T's proposed acquisition of Equitable Bank, on the terms and subject to the conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated Sept. 26, 2002, between BB&T and Equitable Bank. This disclosure is being made in connection with Regulation of Takeovers and Security Holder Communications (Release Nos. 33-7760 and 34-42055) adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
          
Shareholders of Equitable Bank and other investors are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S-4, which BB&T will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger because it will contain important information about BB&T, Equitable Bank, the merger, the persons soliciting proxies in the merger and their interests in the merger and related matters.
          
After it is filed with the SEC, the proxy statement/prospectus will be available for free, both on the SEC web site (http://www.sec.gov) and from BB&T and Equitable Bank as follows:
          
Alan W. Greer, Shareholder Reporting, BB&T Corporation, P.O. Box 1290, Winston-Salem, NC, 27102. Telephone: (336) 733-3021.
          
Timothy F. Veith, Chief Executive Officer, Equitable Bank, 11501 Georgia Ave., Wheaton, Md. 20902. Telephone: (301) 949-6500.
          
In addition to the proposed registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus, BB&T and Equitable Bank file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information filed by either company at the SEC's public reference rooms at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., 20549 or at the SEC's other public reference rooms in New York and Chicago.
          
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. BB&T and Equitable Bank filings with the SEC are also available to the public from commercial document-retrieval services and on the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov.
1
2
3
* Excluding merger-related and restructuring charges
4
* Excluding merger-related and restructuring charges / Equitable has a 9/30 year-end
5
*Based on closing price as of 09/26/02
6
7
8
9
*Source for Acquisition Comparables: SNL Financial
10
11
* Excluding merger-related and restructuring charges ** EQSB has a 9/30 year end
12
13
14
The key strategic objectives achieved in this acquisition:
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
Criteria are listed in order of importance. There are sometimes trade- offs among criteria.
22
23
* Excluding merger-related and restructuring charges
24
The decrease in ROE results from the build up in equity relative to assets. If consistent with attaining and maintaining a leverage capital ratio of at least 7%, BB&T may choose to leverage the balance sheet further through repurchase of its stock.
1
Excluding merger-related and restructuring charges
2
25
* Excluding merger-related and restructuring charges
26
*BB&T's goal is to manage its leverage ratio to between 7% and 8%
27
28
29
Equitable Bank
Financial Summary
30
Equitable Bank
Financial Summary
31
Equitable Bank
Financial Summary
32
Return on Assets  Earnings (excluding merger-related and restructuring charges) for the period as a percentage of average assets for the period.
Return on Equity  Earnings (excluding merger-related and restructuring charges) for the period as a percentage of average common equity for the period.
Cash Basis Performance Results and Ratios  These calculations exclude the effect on net income of amortization expense applicable to certain intangible assets. The ratios also exclude the effect of the unamortized balances of these intangibles from assets and equity.
Efficiency Ratio  calculated as noninterest expense (excluding merger-related and restructuring charges) as a percentage of the sum of net interest income (excluding merger-related and restructuring charges) on a fully taxable equivalent basis and noninterest income (excluding merger-related and restructuring charges).
Leverage Capital Ratio  Common shareholders' equity excluding unrealized securities gains and losses and certain intangible assets as a percentage of average assets for the most recent quarter less certain intangible assets.
Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio  The sum of shareholders' equity, a qualifying portion of subordinated debt and a qualifying portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Net Charge-Off Ratio  Loan losses net of recoveries as a percentage of average loans and leases.
Internal Rate of Return  The interest rate that equates the present value of future returns to the investment outlay. An investment is considered acceptable if its IRR exceeds the required return. The investment is defined as the market value of the stock and/or other consideration to be received by the selling shareholders.
Certain of the ratios discussed above may be annualized if the applicable periods are less than a full year.
33
The foregoing may be deemed to be offering materials of BB&T Corporation in connection with BB&T's proposed acquisition of Equitable Bank on the terms and subject to the conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated September 27, 2002, between BB&T and Equitable Bank. This filing is being made in connection with Regulation of Takeovers and Security Holder Communications (Release #s 33-7760 and 34-42055) adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Shareholders of Equitable Bank and other investors are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S-4 which BB&T will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger because it will contain important information about BB&T, Equitable Bank, the merger, the persons soliciting proxies in the merger and their interests in the merger and related matters. After it is filed with the SEC, the proxy statement/prospectus will be available for free, both on the SEC's web site (http://www.sec.gov) and from EQSB and BB&T as follows:
In addition to the proposed registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus, BB&T and EQSB file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information filed by either company at the SEC's public reference rooms at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC's other public reference rooms in New York, New York and Chicago, Illinois. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. BB&T's and EQSB's filings with the SEC are also available to the public from commercial document-retrieval services and on the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov.
34
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 27, 2002
35


