FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20020904160959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
BB&T Chairman and CEO John Allison's presentation to Merrill Lynch Banking and Financial Services Investor Conference, September 4, 2002.
BB&T is a fast growing, highly profitable, regional financial holding company. The core of our business was created by the merger-of-equals between BB&T and Southern National in 1995 and the acquisition of UCB in 1997. All three institutions 'grew up' as eastern North Carolina farm banks. This fundamental and sound heritage is reflected in our culture. BB&T was organized in 1872 and is the oldest bank in the Carolinas.
BB&T has consummated 58 acquisitions of community banks and thrifts, 57 insurance agencies, and 20 non-bank acquisitions over the last fifteen years. The employees, clients, shareholders, and board members of these institutions have considerably strengthened our organization.
*Excludes home office deposits
Recurring and restated
1
Recurring and restated
1
Restated *Source: FDIC Quarterly Banking Profile 3/31/02
(1)  
Be the World Standard Revenue-Driven Sales Organization
     
    Execute on BB&T Decathlon
     
   Execute on Integrated Relationship Management
(2)   
Execute the World Standard Client Service Strategy
(3)   
Achieve Superior Performance and Profitability Goals Top 5%; realize performance potential of new markets
(4)   
Execute Branch Automation and Internet strategy, increase scale of selected fee based businesses; optimize and integrate products, business lines delivery systems and information systems
(5)   
Integrate past acquisitions and pursue strategic future acquisitions
Recurring and restated - as of/for the period ended 6/30/02 Source: FDIC as of/for year ended 3/31/02
1
2
This presentation contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of BB&T. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements include, among others, the following possibilities: (1) competitive pressure in the banking industry increases significantly; (2) changes in the interest rate environment reduce margins; (3) general economic conditions, either nationally or regionally, are less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality; (4) changes occur in the regulatory environment; costs or difficulties related to the integration of the businesses of BB&T and its merger partners are greater than expected; (5) changes occur in business conditions and inflation; (6) expected cost savings from proposed mergers cannot be fully realized; (7) deposit attrition, customer loss or revenue loss following proposed mergers are greater than expected; (8) required operational divestitures associated with pending mergers are greater than expected; and (9) changes occur in the securities markets. The forward-looking earnings estimates included in this presentation have not been examined or compiled by the independent public accountants of BB&T, nor have such accountants applied any procedures thereto. Accordingly, such accountants do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on them.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:       September 4, 2002


