FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20021003113535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM 9.    REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to announce the signing of a definitive agreement for BB&T to acquire FloridaFirst Bancorp, Inc. of Lakeland, Florida and to furnish the related information provided to analysts.
October 3, 2002
BB&T to acquire FloridaFirst Bancorp of Lakeland, Fla.
          WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. - Building on its new presence in Florida, BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) today said it plans to buy Lakeland-based FloridaFirst Bancorp Inc. (NASDAQ: FFBK) in a $134.8 million transaction.
          FloridaFirst Bancorp is the parent company of FloridaFirst Bank, an $812 million thrift with 18 full-service offices in Polk, Manatee, Highlands and Sumter counties in central Florida and along the west central coast.
          FloridaFirst shareholders may elect one of the following three options for the exchange of their shares:            .66 of a share of BB&T stock; or            .363 of a share of BB&T stock plus $11.25 in cash; or           $25 in cash. This option is subject to a maximum aggregate cash amount in the overall transaction equal to $11.25 per share multiplied by the shares outstanding as of the closing date. If this maximum cash amount would be exceeded, some portion of the cash would be converted to stock, which could result in a per share value of less than $25.
1.)
2.)
3.)
          The transaction, approved by the directors of both companies, is valued at $23.85 per FloridaFirst share based upon the cash/stock election (option No. 2 above) and BB&T's closing price Wednesday of $34.70.
          "We're committed to building a strong presence in Florida, one of the nation's fastest growing and most economically attractive states," said BB&T Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Allison. "This acquisition pushes us closer to that goal by providing entry into the robust Bradenton, Winter Haven and Lakeland markets.
          "FloridaFirst Bank is a community financial institution that focuses on excellent credit quality and client service, and has a very visible presence in the markets it serves."
          Florida was one of the three fastest growing states in the nation from 1990 to 2000. More jobs were created in Florida in 2001 than any other state in the nation. In 2000, the state ranked first in the Southeast and fourth in the nation in total personal income.
          The announcement comes nearly three weeks after BB&T completed its acquisition of Tallahassee, Fla.-based Regional Financial Corporation, parent company of real estate lender First South Bank. The First South acquisition, BB&T's first in Florida, established a foothold in Tallahassee and the Florida Panhandle, Jacksonville, and along the Gulf Coast from Beverly Hills to Naples.
          The FloridaFirst acquisition would expand that presence into central Florida's "High Tech Corridor" along Interstate 4 in Polk County. FloridaFirst operates offices in Avon Park, Bradenton, Lakeland, Sebring, Wildwood and Winter Haven. It holds the No. 4 deposit market share in its four-county area.
          FloridaFirst customers in those markets will be introduced to BB&T's strong branch-based sales culture and its broad product and services line, including insurance, mutual funds, trust, online banking, annuities, investment banking, retail brokerage, treasury services, leasing and international banking.
          "For some time now, we've had a clear-cut goal of becoming the leading community bank in central Florida," said Gregory C. Wilkes, president and chief executive officer of FloridaFirst Bancorp. "One of the great things about this merger is that BB&T's unique community banking structure will give us the autonomy to continue toward that goal by serving our clients in the same attentive manner they've grown accustomed to.
          "The fact that BB&T is known throughout the industry for its highly client-focused approach to doing business makes this an even better fit."
          FloridaFirst branches will become part of BB&T's Florida banking operations. BB&T divides its 11-state banking network into autonomous regions which operate like community banks. Nearly all decisions are made locally, close to the customer.
          BB&T also will create an area advisory board for central Florida. FloridaFirst board members will be asked to serve on the new BB&T board.
          The merger, which is subject to regulatory and FloridaFirst shareholder approval, is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2003.
          BB&T on Sept. 27 said it would acquire Equitable Bank of Wheaton, Md., in a $52.6 million stock swap. On Tuesday, it announced plans to buy a Tallahassee-based insurance agency.
          Winston-Salem-based BB&T Corporation operates more than 1,100 banking offices in the Carolinas, Georgia, Virginia, Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Florida, Alabama, Indiana and Washington, D.C.
          With $76.3 billion in assets as of June 30, BB&T Corp. is the nation's 14th largest financial holding company. Barron's, a Dow Jones weekly, ranks BB&T as the second highest performing financial institution in the country. More information is available at www.BBandT.com.
          
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections.
          
Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a summary of important factors that could affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this press release.
          
BB&T's news releases are available at no charge through PR Newswire's Company News On-Call facsimile service. For a menu of BB&T's news releases or to retrieve a specific release call 1-800-758-5804, extension 809325.
          
The foregoing may be deemed to be offering materials of BB&T Corporation in connection with BB&T's proposed acquisition of FloridaFirst Bancorp, on the terms and subject to the conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated Oct. 2, 2002, between BB&T and FloridaFirst. This disclosure is being made in connection with Regulation of Takeovers and Security Holder Communications (Release Nos. 33-7760 and 34-42055) adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
          
Shareholders of FloridaFirst and other investors are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S-4, which BB&T will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger because it will contain important information about BB&T, FloridaFirst, the merger, the persons soliciting proxies in the merger and their interests in the merger and related matters.
          
After it is filed with the SEC, the proxy statement/prospectus will be available for free, both on the SEC web site (http://www.sec.gov) and from BB&T and FloridaFirst as follows:
          
Alan W. Greer, Shareholder Reporting, BB&T Corporation, P.O. Box 1290, Winston-Salem, NC, 27102. Telephone: (336) 733-3021.
          
Kerry P. Charlet, CFO and head of Investor Relations, FloridaFirst Bancorp, 205 E. Orange St., Lakeland, FL 33801. Telephone: (863) 688-6811.
          
In addition to the proposed registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus, BB&T and FloridaFirst file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information filed by either company at the SEC's public reference rooms at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., 20549 or at the SEC's other public reference rooms in New York and Chicago.
          
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. BB&T and FloridaFirst filings with the SEC are also available to the public from commercial document-retrieval services and on the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov.
1
BB&T has made forward-looking statements in the accompanying analyst presentation materials that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of the management of BB&T, and on the information available to management at the time the analyst presentation materials were prepared. In particular, the analyst materials in this report include statements regarding estimated earnings per share of BB&T on a stand alone basis, expected cost savings from the merger, estimated merger or restructuring charges, estimated increases in FloridaFirst's fee income ratio and net interest margin, the anticipated accretive effect of the merger, and BB&T's anticipated performance in future periods. With respect to estimated cost savings and merger or restructuring charges, BB&T has made assumptions about, among other things, the extent of operational overlap between BB&T and FloridaFirst, the amount of general and administrative expense consolidation, costs relating to converting FloridaFirst's bank operations and data processing to BB&T's systems, the size of anticipated reductions in fixed labor costs, the amount of severance expenses, the extent of the charges that may be necessary to align the companies' respective accounting policies, and the cost related to the merger. The realization of cost savings and the amount of merger or restructuring charges are subject to the risk that the foregoing assumptions are inaccurate.
Any statements in the accompanying exhibit regarding the anticipated accretive effect of the merger and BB&T's anticipated performance in future periods are subject to risks relating to, among other things, the following possibilities: (1) expected cost savings from this merger or other previously announced mergers may not be fully realized or realized within the expected time frame; (2) deposit attrition, customer loss or revenue loss following proposed mergers may be greater than expected; (3) competitive pressure among depository and other financial institutions may increase significantly; (4) costs or difficulties related to the integration of the businesses of BB&T and its merger partners, including FloridaFirst, may be greater than expected; (5) changes in the interest rate environment; (6) general economic or business conditions, either nationally or regionally, may be less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality, or a reduced demand for credit; (7) legislative or regulatory changes, including changes in accounting standards, may adversely affect the businesses in which BB&T and FloridaFirst are engaged; (8) adverse changes may occur in the securities markets; and (9) competitors of BB&T and FloridaFirst may have greater financial resources and develop products that enable such competitors to compete more successfully than BB&T and FloridaFirst.
BB&T believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. Such statements are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The future results and shareholder value of BB&T following completion of the merger may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results and values are beyond management's ability to control or predict.
2
3
* Excluding merger-related and restructuring items ** Including BB&T's pending acquisition of Equitable Bank in Maryland
4
* Excluding merger-related and restructuring items / FloridaFirst has a 9/30 year end
5
*Based on closing price as of 10/02/02
6
7
8
9
*Source for Acquisition Comparables: SNL Financial
10
11
12
13
14
The key strategic objectives achieved in this acquisition:
15
16
17
18
19
20
Sources: eflorida.com and www.state.fl.us
21
Criteria are listed in order of importance. There are sometimes trade-offs among criteria.
22
23
* Excluding merger-related and restructuring items
24
25
* Excluding merger-related and restructuring items
26
*BB&T's goal is to manage its leverage ratio to between 7% and 8%
27
28
29
FloridaFirst Bancorp
Financial Summary
30
FloridaFirst Bancorp
Financial Summary
31
FloridaFirst Bancorp
Financial Summary
32
Return on Assets  Earnings (excluding merger-related and restructuring charges) for the period as a percentage of average assets for the period.
Return on Equity  Earnings (excluding merger-related and restructuring charges) for the period as a percentage of average common equity for the period.
Cash Basis Performance Results and Ratios  These calculations exclude the effect on net income of amortization expense applicable to certain intangible assets. The ratios also exclude the effect of the unamortized balances of these intangibles from assets and equity.
Efficiency Ratio  calculated as noninterest expense as a percentage of the sum of net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis and noninterest income. (Income and expense items exclude merger-related and restructuring items.)
Leverage Capital Ratio  Common shareholders' equity excluding unrealized securities gains and losses and certain intangible assets as a percentage of average assets for the most recent quarter less certain intangible assets.
Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio  The sum of shareholders' equity, a qualifying portion of subordinated debt and a qualifying portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Net Charge-Off Ratio  Loan losses net of recoveries as a percentage of average loans and leases.
Internal Rate of Return  The interest rate that equates the present value of future returns to the investment outlay. An investment is considered acceptable if its IRR exceeds the required return. The investment is defined as the market value of the stock and/or other consideration to be received by the selling shareholders.
Certain of the ratios discussed above may be annualized if the applicable periods are less than a full year.
33
The foregoing may be deemed to be offering materials of BB&T Corporation in connection with BB&T's proposed acquisition of FloridaFirst Bancorp, Inc. on the terms and subject to the conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated October 2, 2002, between BB&T and FloridaFirst. This filing is being made in connection with Regulation of Takeovers and Security Holder Communications (Release #s 33-7760 and 34-42055) adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Shareholders of FloridaFirst Bancorp, Inc. and other investors are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S-4 which BB&T will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger because it will contain important information about BB&T, FloridaFirst, the merger, the persons soliciting proxies in the merger and their interests in the merger and related matters. After it is filed with the SEC, the proxy statement/prospectus will be available for free, both on the SEC's web site (http://www.sec.gov) and from FFBK and BB&T as follows:
In addition to the proposed registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus, BB&T and FFBK file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information filed by either company at the SEC's public reference rooms at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC's other public reference rooms in New York, New York and Chicago, Illinois. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. BB&T's and FFBK's filings with the SEC are also available to the public from commercial document-retrieval services and on the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov.
34
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 3, 2002
35


