FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20031014161437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM 12.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to file BB&T's third quarter 2003 earnings release and to reconcile BB&T's 2003 operating earnings projections to amounts calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Reconciliation of Projected 2003 Operating Earnings Per Share to Earnings Per Share
(1) Reflects nonrecurring contributions made by an affiliated trust.
EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit 99.1 Quarterly Performance Summary issued October 14, 2003
October 14, 2003
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
BB&T announces 3 quarter net income of $115.9 million; Operating earnings increase 12.9% to $379.3 million
rd
          WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) reported today third quarter 2003 net income totaling $115.9 million, or $.21 per diluted share. Net income and diluted earnings per share include the effects of $248.5 million in after-tax losses resulting from an early extinguishment of debt completed in connection with the previously announced balance sheet restructuring during the third quarter and $14.8 million in net after-tax merger-related charges.
          Excluding the effects of the losses from the early extinguishment of debt and the merger-related charges, operating earnings totaled $379.3 million for the third quarter of 2003, an increase of 12.9% compared with $336.0 million earned in the third quarter of 2002. Diluted operating earnings per share for the third quarter were $.68, a decrease of 2.9% compared with $.70 earned during the same period last year.
          BB&T's third quarter 2003 net income produced annualized returns on average assets and average shareholders' equity of .51% and 4.50%, respectively. Operating earnings for the current quarter produced annualized returns on average assets and average shareholders' equity of 1.66% and 14.73%, respectively.
          Cash basis operating results exclude the effects of intangible assets and related amortization expenses, net amortization of purchase accounting mark-to-market adjustments, and merger-related and other nonrecurring charges. Cash basis operating earnings totaled $396.0 million for the third quarter of 2003, or $.71 per diluted share. These results reflect an increase of 16.4% in cash basis operating earnings compared to the third quarter of 2002, and are equal to the cash basis diluted operating earnings per share earned in the same period last year.
Cash basis operating earnings for the third quarter of 2003 produced an annualized return on average tangible assets of 1.81% and an annualized return on average tangible shareholders' equity of 25.62%.
          "I am very satisfied with our overall financial performance during the quarter, particularly considering both the challenging economic environment in our core markets and our major investment for the future in the acquisition of First Virginia," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John A. Allison. "Our operating results reflect continued strong growth in noninterest income, improving asset quality and a healthy improvement in our net interest margin, which resulted from our balance sheet restructuring."
          For the first nine months of 2003, BB&T's net income was $759.9 million, or $1.51 per diluted share. These earnings reflect decreases of 21.3% and 25.2%, respectively, compared to 2002. Excluding merger-related and other nonrecurring costs, operating earnings for the first nine months of 2003 were $1.05 billion, or $2.09 per diluted share, reflecting increases of 7.5% and 2.5%, respectively, compared with 2002.
          In light of the results for the first nine months of 2003 and given current internal forecasts for the remainder of the year, BB&T's management currently projects diluted operating earnings per share in the range of $2.75 to $2.81 for the full year 2003. Calculated on a basis consistent with generally accepted accounting principles, management projects full year net income per share of $2.13 to $2.19.
Positive Trends in Noninterest Income Continue
          The strong performance of BB&T's noninterest income generating businesses continues to be the primary driver of earnings growth. Total noninterest income was $512.1 million for the quarter, an increase of 30.2% compared with the same period in 2002, producing a fee income ratio of 37.3%. This increase was produced by solid revenue growth from BB&T's mortgage banking operations, insurance operations, investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions, and other nondeposit fees and commissions, and also reflects the significant contributions from the purchase of First Virginia. Excluding growth resulting from acquisitions, noninterest income grew 16.5% compared to the third quarter last year.
          The low interest rate environment and strong housing market continued to generate a high level of mortgage loan production, although BB&T's refinance activity has slowed. BB&T originated $5.9 billion of mortgage loans during the third quarter of 2003 compared with $3.5 billion during the same period in 2002. This strong mortgage production has substantially boosted mortgage banking income, which totaled $117.5 million during the third quarter.
          The growth in BB&T's insurance agency network and insurance brokerage operations remained particularly strong with insurance commissions increasing 28.8% to $103.6 million compared with $80.4 million earned during the third quarter of 2002, resulting from both acquisitions and strong internal growth. BB&T's insurance agency network and brokerage operations currently rank 8 in the country in terms of total revenues.
th
          Other nondeposit fees and commissions increased 35.4% to $73.3 million compared with the same quarter last year. This growth resulted primarily from higher bankcard and merchant services income. Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions increased 36.3% to $65.3 million compared to the third quarter last year. This increase resulted principally from growth in brokerage commissions and commissions from sales of annuities.
Asset Quality Continues to Improve
          BB&T's credit quality continued to improve during the third quarter and remains very strong compared to the industry. The overall positive trends were partially aided by the acquisition of First Virginia on July 1, which also enjoyed excellent credit quality. Nonperforming assets as a percentage of total assets were .49% at Sept. 30, down from .55% and .60% at June 30 and March 31, respectively. Annualized net charge-offs were .40% of average loans and leases for the third quarter of 2003, down from .43% in the second quarter and .47% for the first quarter of 2003. Excluding losses at BB&T's specialized lending subsidiaries, annualized net charge-offs for the current quarter were ..30% of average loans and leases compared to .39% for the same period in 2002.
Net Interest Margin Improves Following Balance Sheet Restructuring
          BB&T's fully taxable equivalent net interest income totaled $832.9 million for the third quarter, an increase of $90.3 million, or 12.2%, compared to the third quarter of 2002During the third quarter, BB&T largely completed the balance sheet restructuring plan announced at the end of the second quarter of 2003. The initiatives have strengthened BB&T's financial position and have had an immediate positive impact on the net interest margin, which increased .11% to 4.17% in the third quarter following four consecutive quarters of decreases. This increase in the quarterly margin primarily resulted from savings in funding costs from the restructuring of $3.0 billion in FHLB advances in the second quarter of 2003 and the early termination of $2.9 billion in FHLB advances in the current quarter. In addition, BB&T completed the repurchase of 12 million shares of its common stock during the third quarter and plans to repurchase approximately 8 million additional shares in the fourth quarter.
.
Expanded BB&T Franchise Well Positioned for Growth
          On July 1, BB&T consummated its merger with First Virginia Banks, Inc. ("First Virginia"), headquartered in Falls Church, Va. First Virginia had $11.2 billion in assets and operated 363 branches at the time of the merger with BB&T. The acquisition of First Virginia substantially increased BB&T's market share in Virginia, Maryland and Tennessee, and expanded BB&T's presence in the fast-growing Washington, D.C. market. On Oct. 13, BB&T successfully completed the systems conversion of the eight subsidiary banks acquired through the merger with First Virginia.
          "I am pleased to report the successful acquisition and conversion of First Virginia's operations into those of BB&T," said Allison. "We believe this transaction presents tremendous growth opportunities for our combined organization. We are particularly excited about the potential to grow our consumer and commercial loan portfolios, as well as increase our noninterest revenue as we offer BB&T's expanded range of products and services to First Virginia's customers and implement BB&T's sales system throughout the First Virginia franchise. We are on track to realize our planned cost savings and I am confident that we will be well positioned for future growth."
          On Sept. 2, BB&T Insurance Services acquired Cooper, Love & Jackson ("CLJ") of Nashville, Tenn., and Surety Land Title based in Raleigh, N.C. CLJ specializes in the insurance of commercial risk, employee benefits and personal lines. These acquisitions will further expand BB&T's growing insurance line of business, which continues to be an important source of noninterest income.
          At Sept. 30, BB&T had $90.4 billion in assets and operated more than 1,400banking offices in the Carolinas, Virginia, West Virginia, Kentucky, Georgia, Maryland, Tennessee, Florida, Alabama, Indiana and Washington, D.C. BB&T's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol BBT. The closing price of BB&T's common stock on Oct. 13 was $37.53 per share.
          For additional information about BB&T's financial performance, company news, products and services, please visit our Web site at .
www.BBandT.com
Earnings Webcast
          To hear a live webcast of BB&T's third quarter 2003 earnings conference call at 10 a.m. (EDT) today, please visit our Web site at Replays of the conference call will be available through our Web site until 5 p.m. (EDT) Oct. 24.
www.BBandT.com
.
          
This press release contains financial information determined by methods other than in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). BB&T's management uses these non-GAAP measures in their analysis of the Company's performance. These measures typically adjust GAAP performance measures to exclude the effects of charges, expenses and gains related to the consummation of mergers and acquisitions, and costs related to the integration of merged entities, as well as the amortization of intangibles and purchase accounting mark-to-market adjustments in the case of "cash basis" performance measures. These non-GAAP measures may also exclude other significant gains, losses or expenses that are unusual in nature and not expected to recur. Since these items and their impact on BB&T's performance are difficult to predict, management believes presentations of financial measures excluding the impact of these items provide useful supplemental information that is essential to a proper understanding of the operating results of BB&T's core businesses. These disclosures should not be viewed as a substitute for results determined in accordance with GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies.
          
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections. Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a summary of important factors that could affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this press release.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:       October 14, 2003


