FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20030414160057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM 9.   Regulation FD Disclosure (Information provided pursuant to Item 12)
          The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to file BB&T Corporation's Quarterly Performance Summary for the first quarter of 2003.
EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit 99.1 Quarterly Performance Summary issued April 14, 2003
April 14, 2003
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
BB&T's net income up 5.8% in 1st quarter; earnings increase 7.0% excluding merger charges
          WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) reported today first quarter 2003 net income totaling $327.7 million, or $.69 per diluted share. Net income increased 5.8% compared to $309.6 million earned in the first quarter of 2002 and diluted earnings per share increased 4.5% compared to prior year earnings of $.66.
          Excluding the effect of expenses associated with completing mergers and acquisitions, operating earnings totaled $330.8 million in 2003, an increase of 7.0% compared to 2002. Diluted operating earnings per share for the current quarter were $.70, excluding merger-related charges, an increase of 6.1% compared with the $.66 earned during the same period of 2002. Merger-related charges for the first quarter of 2003 totaled $3.1 million after-tax.
          BB&T's first quarter 2003 operating earnings produced annualized returns on average assets and average shareholders' equity of 1.69% and 17.94%, respectively.
          Cash basis operating results exclude the effects of intangible assets and related amortization expenses, as well as merger-related charges. Cash basis operating earnings totaled $334.9 million for the first quarter of 2003, or $.71 per diluted share. These results reflect increases of 7.4% and 6.0%, respectively, compared to results for the first quarter of 2002. Cash basis operating earnings for the current quarter produced an annualized return on average tangible assets of 1.76% and an annualized return on average tangible shareholders' equity of 24.26%.
          "I am pleased to announce solid first quarter earnings, particularly given the continued weakness in overall economic conditions," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John A. Allison. "An already slow economy was negatively affected by global uncertainties and poor weather conditions. The combination of these factors reduced loan demand in our markets and led to a modest increase in first quarter levels of nonperforming assets. Notwithstanding economic challenges, our noninterest income generating businesses continue to produce strong results and our asset quality compares favorably with the industry."
Noninterest Income Producing Businesses Have Another Strong Quarter
          Solid growth from BB&T's noninterest income generating businesses was a leading contributor to first quarter results. Total noninterest income was $444.9 million for the quarter, an increase of 24.4% compared with the same period in 2002. This increase was primarily driven by mortgage banking income, insurance commissions and income from nondeposit services.
          Aided by the low interest rate environment, BB&T originated mortgage loans totaling $5.2 billion during the current quarter compared to $2.8 billion during the same period in 2002. As a result, mortgage banking income, composed primarily of gains from loan sales, origination fees and servicing fees, increased 79.6% to $60.0 million in the first quarter of 2003 compared to the $33.4 million earned in the first quarter last year. BB&T's income from mortgage banking for the current quarter was reduced by a $36.9 million writedown in the value of mortgage servicing rights resulting from high levels of mortgage loan refinance activity. In the first quarter of 2002, BB&T recorded a writedown in mortgage servicing rights totaling $9.8 million. These writedowns were largely offset by gains from sales of securities.
          Commissions from BB&T's insurance operations totaled $88.7 million in the first quarter of 2003, up 31.6% compared with the first quarter last year. The primary drivers of this growth were increased sales of insurance products to BB&T's client base and additional revenues from insurance agencies acquired during 2003 and 2002. Excluding the effect of these acquisitions, insurance commissions increased approximately 15%.
          Nondeposit service charges and fees totaled $56.3 million for the quarter, an increase of 27.5% compared to the $44.1 million earned during the same period in 2002. This growth resulted primarily from increased income in bankcard-related services, ATM and point-of-sale fees, safe deposit box fees, and income from other nondeposit-related services.
BB&T Recognized Nationally for Its Reputation and Performance
          During the first quarter, BB&T earned notably high marks from several national financial publications and organizations. Fortune magazine's 21annual survey of "America's Most Admired Companies" ranked BB&T at No. 4 in the "Superregional Bank" category. BB&T ranked 7 in the survey a year ago, gaining more ground than any institution in the Superregional category. In addition, BB&T was named to the Forbes Platinum 400 list of America's "Best Big Companies" for a fourth consecutive year.
st
th
          BB&T also received an overall rating of "A" in the first ever survey of the nation's 21 largest banks conducted by Rating Research LLC. The survey rated banks in seven categories, including strength of reputation, customer focus, and ethical behavior. Only two other banks received higher marks. Finally, BB&T's commitment to employee development through innovative training initiatives placed BB&T in the top 6% among more than 800 organizations evaluated in Training magazine's 2003 "Training Top 100" list.
          "We are proud to be recognized for our performance and the manner in which we achieve those results," Allison said. "Our success is the result of our steadfast adherence to a core set of values that have long been synonymous with BB&T's approach to doing business, and our commitment to creating an environment where our employees can realize their potential and excel in serving our clients."
Loan Growth and Asset Quality Affected by Weak Economic Conditions
          The continuing effects of the difficult economic environment in BB&T's core markets were evident in the levels of total nonperforming assets, which increased slightly during the first quarter of 2003. Nonperforming assets as a percentage of total assets increased to .60% at March 31 compared to .56% at both March 31, 2002 and at the end of 2002. Annualized net charge-offs were .47% of average loans and leases for the first quarter of 2003, down slightly compared with .48% for the first quarter of 2002 and .51% in the fourth quarter of 2002. Excluding losses at BB&T's specialized lending subsidiaries, annualized net charge-offs for the current quarter were .35% of average loans and leases compared to .37% for the same period in 2002.
          Despite the increase in the level of nonperforming assets, BB&T's loan portfolio continues to outperform the industry in terms of credit quality. According to the most recently available FDIC , the average net charge-off ratio for institutions with assets greater than $5 billion was 1.28%, and the ratio of nonperforming assets to total assets was 1.01%.
Quarterly Banking Profile
BB&T Announces First Virginia Merger
           On Jan. 21, BB&T announced plans to acquire First Virginia Banks Inc., headquartered in Falls Church, Va. First Virginia, which had $11.2 billion in assets at year-end, is the parent company of eight community banks and operated 364 branches in Virginia, Maryland and Northeast Tennessee. The merger will substantially expand BB&T's presence in these key fast-growing markets and grow BB&T's deposit market share to No. 2 in Virginia, to No. 4 in the Washington, D.C. area, to No. 7 in Maryland, and to No. 10 in Tennessee. Subsequent to the merger, the combined company is expected to have more than $91 billion in assets, which would make it the 11th largest financial holding company in the nation.
          "The acquisition of First Virginia is an important milestone in the history of BB&T," said Allison. "By capitalizing on the tremendous synergies between our companies in terms of operating philosophy, community banking structure, client-focused culture and excellent asset quality, we will be able to improve our operating efficiency and significantly enhance the value of our franchise."
          On April 1, BB&T completed the acquisition of Southeastern Fidelity Corporation of Tallahassee, Fla., which will be combined with Prime Rate Premium Finance Corporation, thus making BB&T's wholly-owned insurance premium finance subsidiary one of the largest companies of its type in the Southeast and mid-Atlantic. On Jan. 2, BB&T Insurance Services completed the acquisition of Cranman & Company of Savannah, Ga. On April 3, BB&T Insurance Services announced plans to acquire Old Colony Insurance Service Inc. of Louisville, Ky., and Cromwell Insurance Agency of Lexington, Ky. These acquisitions are the first steps in expanding BB&T's insurance agency network into Kentucky's economically attractive insurance market and bringing diversified, high quality insurance products to BB&T's clients in the state.
          In addition to the mergers and acquisitions described above, BB&T successfully completed the acquisition and systems integration of Equitable Bank of Wheaton, Md., during the first quarter. Through this acquisition, BB&T expanded its presence in the fast-growing and economically appealing suburbs of Washington, D.C.
          At March 31, BB&T had $79.6 billion in assets and operated 1,118banking offices in the Carolinas, Virginia, West Virginia, Kentucky, Georgia, Maryland, Tennessee, Florida, Alabama, Indiana and Washington, D.C. BB&T's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol BBT. The closing price of BB&T's common stock on April 11 was $32.15 per share.
          For additional information about BB&T's financial performance, company news, products and services, please visit our Web site at .
www.BBandT.com
Earnings Webcast
          To hear a live webcast of BB&T's first quarter 2003 earnings conference call at 11 a.m. (EDT) today, please visit our Web site at Replays of the conference call will be available through our Web site until 5 p.m. (EDT) April 25.
www.BBandT.com
.
          
This press release contains financial information determined by methods other than in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). BB&T's management uses these non-GAAP measures in their analysis of the Company's performance. These measures typically adjust GAAP performance measures to exclude the effects of charges, expenses and gains related to the consummation of mergers and acquisitions, and costs related to the integration of merged entities, as well as the amortization of intangibles in the case of "cash basis" performance measures. These non-GAAP measures may also exclude other significant gains or losses that are unusual in nature or are associated with acquiring and converting merged entities. Since these items and their impact on BB&T's performance are difficult to predict, management believes presentations of financial measures excluding the impact of these items provide useful supplemental information that is essential to a proper understanding of the operating results of BB&T's core businesses. These disclosures should not be viewed as a substitute for operating results determined in accordance with GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures which may be presented by other companies.
          
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections. Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a summary of important factors that could affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this press release.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:       April 14, 2003


