FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20030715123319.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM 9.   Regulation FD Disclosure (Information provided pursuant to Item 12)
          The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to file BB&T's second quarter 2003 earnings release and to reconcile BB&T's 2003 operating earnings projections, which were provided in the earnings release, to amounts calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Reconciliation of Projected 2003 Operating Earnings Per Share to Earnings Per Share
(1) Reflects nonrecurring contributions made by an affiliated trust.
EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit 99.1 Quarterly Performance Summary issued July 14, 2003
July 14, 2003
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
BB&T announces 2 quarter net income of $316.2 million; operating earnings per share increase 4.4%
nd
          WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) reported today second quarter 2003 net income totaling $316.2 million, or $.67 per diluted share. Net income for the current quarter and diluted earnings per share reflected decreases of 3.6% and 1.5%, respectively, compared with $328.0 million and $.68 per diluted share earned during the second quarter of 2002. The decreases in current period performance were the result of merger-related and other nonrecurring charges.
          Excluding the effects of merger-related charges and other nonrecurring expenses, operating earnings totaled $336.9 million for the second quarter of 2003, an increase of 2.4% compared to 2002. Diluted operating earnings per share for the second quarter were $.71, an increase of 4.4% compared with the $.68 earned during the same period last year.
          BB&T's second quarter 2003 net income produced annualized returns on average assets and average shareholders' equity of 1.57% and 16.38%, respectively. On an operating basis, the annualized returns on average assets and average shareholders' equity were 1.67% and 17.45%, respectively.
          Cash basis operating results exclude the effects of intangible assets and related amortization expenses, as well as merger-related and other nonrecurring charges. Cash basis operating earnings totaled $341.1 million for the second quarter of 2003, or $.72 per diluted share. These results reflect increases of 2.5% in cash basis operating earnings and 4.3% in cash basis diluted operating earnings per share compared with results for the second quarter of 2002. Cash basis operating earnings for the current quarter produced an annualized return on average tangible assets of 1.73% and an annualized return on average tangible shareholders' equity of 23.38%.
          "Overall, I am pleased with our performance for the second quarter of 2003, particularly given the challenges created by the prolonged economic slowdown," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John A. Allison. "Our second quarter results were driven by strong performances from our noninterest income generating businesses. We are also encouraged by the improvement in asset quality during the quarter. At the same time, despite some recent positive signs in the economy, commercial loan demand in our markets remains soft. In addition, historically low interest rates have resulted in contracting net interest margins and downward pressure on net interest income."
          For the first six months of 2003, BB&T's net income was $644.0 million, or $1.36 per diluted share. These earnings reflect increases of 1.0% and 1.5%, respectively, compared to 2002. Excluding merger-related and other nonrecurring costs, operating earnings for the first six months of 2003 were $667.7 million, or $1.41 per diluted share, reflecting increases of 4.6% and 5.2%, respectively, compared with 2002.
Earnings Growth Driven by 19.8% Increase in Noninterest Income
          The positive trends in many of BB&T's noninterest income generating businesses continued during the second quarter. Total noninterest income was $461.1 million for the quarter, an increase of 19.8% compared with the same period in 2002. Higher revenues from BB&T's insurance operations, as well as growth in income from investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions, and other nondeposit fees and commissions, were the primary contributors to this growth.
          BB&T's insurance operations experienced strong growth during the current quarter with insurance commissions increasing 30.0% to $101.5 million compared with $78.0 million earned during the second quarter of 2002. The expansion of BB&T's insurance network through acquisitions of insurance agencies, combined with solid internal growth, generated the increase.
          Nondeposit fees and commissions increased 16.6% to $60.8 million compared with the same quarter last year as a result of higher bankcard and merchant services income. Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions increased 7.2% to $60.1 million compared to the second quarter last year and 15.8% compared to the first quarter this year.
          The low interest rate environment continued to fuel momentum in mortgage originations and refinance activity, which in turn boosted mortgage banking income, including gains from sales of mortgage loans, origination fees and servicing fees. BB&T originated a one-quarter record $6.0 billion of mortgage loans during the second quarter, compared to $2.3 billion during the same period in 2002. While the decline in interest rates supported the growth in mortgage originations, it also produced higher prepayment speed assumptions on existing serviced loans resulting in writedowns in the value of BB&T's mortgage servicing rights. BB&T recognized writedowns totaling $109.3 million during the second quarter of 2003 and $15.8 million during the second quarter last year. These writedowns were largely offset by gains realized from the sale of securities. Excluding these writedowns from 2003 and 2002, BB&T's mortgage banking income totaled $76.6 million, an increase of 89.3% compared to the second quarter last year.
Asset Quality Improves
          BB&T's credit quality showed significant improvement compared to recent quarters. Nonperforming assets as a percentage of total assets were .55% at June 30, down from .60% at March 31. Annualized net charge-offs were .43% of average loans and leases for the second quarter of 2003, down from .47% in the first quarter of 2003 and .51% for the fourth quarter of 2002. Excluding losses at BB&T's specialized lending subsidiaries, annualized net charge-offs for the current quarter were .31% of average loans and leases compared to .37% for the same period in 2002.
BB&T Declares 10.3% Increase in Dividend
          On June 24, BB&T's board of directors approved a 10.3% increase in the quarterly cash dividend paid to shareholders. The increase, to $.32 per share, marks the 32 consecutive year that BB&T has raised its cash dividend paid to shareholders. In addition, BB&T has paid a dividend every year since 1920. In recognition of this exceptional dividend history, Mergent, Inc., a provider of global business and financial information, recently named BB&T as a "2003 Dividend Achiever," a designation received by fewer than 3% of the more than 10,000 U.S. publicly traded companies reviewed as part of Mergent's study. The increase in the dividend produced an annualized dividend yield of 3.7% based on the July 11 closing price of BB&T's stock.
nd
th
          "Our ability to continue creating value for our shareholders, as evidenced by the increase in our quarterly cash dividend, is a noteworthy achievement in this difficult environment,"said Allison. "Our outstanding track record of dividend increases has made BB&T a rewarding long-term investment."
BB&T Announces Balance Sheet Restructuring and Updates 2003 Earnings Projections
          BB&T also today announced plans to restructure the company's balance sheet in light of the low interest rate environment and significant liquidity resulting from the acquisition of First Virginia Banks, Inc. ("First Virginia"). This restructuring includes the prepayment of approximately $3 billion of fixed rate long-term advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") in the third quarter of 2003, resulting in an estimated after-tax loss of $250 million, and a reduction of approximately $5 billion in the securities portfolio. The cash flows realized from reducing the securities portfolio will be used to fund the prepayments of the Federal Home Loan Bank advances and to increase planned repurchases of BB&T's common stock by 6 million shares to a total of approximately 18 million shares over the remainder of 2003. Management also plans to retain rather than sell up to $2 billion of fixed rate mortgage loans from originations during the second half of 2003. In addition, during the second quarter of 2003, approximately $3 billion in FHLB advances were restructured in a transaction that lowered the current interest rate paid on these borrowings.
          The acquisition of First Virginia, the reduction in interest income on securities sold in the second quarter to offset writedowns in mortgage servicing rights, slower than anticipated loan growth and the reduction in interest margins brought about by the present interest rate environment are expected to result in dilution of BB&T's 2003 operating earnings. After considering these factors, along with the favorable effects of the balance sheet restructuring initiatives previously discussed, management projects diluted operating earnings per share in the range of $2.75 to $2.85 for the full year 2003.
BB&T Completes First Virginia Merger
          On July 1, BB&T consummated its merger with First Virginia, headquartered in Falls Church, Va. The acquisition substantially increased BB&T's market share in Virginia, Maryland and Tennessee, and expanded BB&T's presence in the fast-growing Washington, D.C. market. The combined company has approximately $91 billion in assets and is the 11 largest financial holding company in the nation.
th
          "We are very pleased to complete this important acquisition," said Allison. "First Virginia and BB&T have been guided by similar values and operating philosophies and have both enjoyed long track records of financial strength and solid performance. We believe that the acquisition will add significant value to our franchise over the long term."
          On July 1, BB&T acquired Jackson, Miss.-based Southern Cross Underwriters ("SCU") and Kingsport Development Company ("KDC") Insurance Inc. of Kingsport, Tenn. SCU's specialty lines include commercial transportation, property and casualty liability, marine liability and liability coverage for directors and officers. KDC is a full-service independent insurance agency specializing in coverage for hotels, restaurants and municipalities.
          At June 30, BB&T had $80.4 billion in assets and operated more than 1,100banking offices in the Carolinas, Virginia, West Virginia, Kentucky, Georgia, Maryland, Tennessee, Florida, Alabama, Indiana and Washington, D.C. BB&T's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol BBT. The closing price of BB&T's common stock on July 11 was $34.94 per share.
          For additional information about BB&T's financial performance, company news, products and services, please visit our Web site at .
www.BBandT.com
Earnings Webcast
          To hear a live webcast of BB&T's second quarter 2003 earnings conference call at 10 a.m. (EDT) today, please visit our Web site at Replays of the conference call will be available through our Web site until 5 p.m. (EDT) July 25.
www.BBandT.com
.
          
This press release contains financial information determined by methods other than in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). BB&T's management uses these non-GAAP measures in their analysis of the Company's performance. These measures typically adjust GAAP performance measures to exclude the effects of charges, expenses and gains related to the consummation of mergers and acquisitions, and costs related to the integration of merged entities, as well as the amortization of intangibles in the case of "cash basis" performance measures. These non-GAAP measures may also exclude other significant gains, losses or expenses that are unusual in nature and not expected to recur. Since these items and their impact on BB&T's performance are difficult to predict, management believes presentations of financial measures excluding the impact of these items provide useful supplemental information that is essential to a proper understanding of the operating results of BB&T's core businesses. These disclosures should not be viewed as a substitute for results determined in accordance with GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies.
          
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections. Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a summary of important factors that could affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this press release.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:       July 15, 2003


