FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20031223120953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM 5.    Other Events and Required FD Disclosure
     The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to file an Underwriting Agreement dated December 16, 2003 between BB&T Corporation and Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. and BB&T Capital Markets, a division of Scott & Stringfellow, Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters named in Schedule II thereto, and the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 23, 2003, to the Indenture Regarding Subordinated Securities, dated as of May 24, 1996, between BB&T Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association (successor to the coporate trust business of State Street Bank and Trust Company), as Trustee.
ITEM 7.   Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Ladies and Gentlemen: Exhibit A Yours very truly,
Exhibit 1
New York, New York December 16, 2003
To the Representatives   named in Schedule I hereto   of the Underwriters named   in Schedule II hereto
          BB&T Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of North Carolina (the "Company"), proposes to sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule II hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, the principal amount of its securities identified in Schedule I hereto (the "Securities"), to be issued under an indenture relating to subordinated securities dated as of May 24, 1996, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 23, 2003 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association (successor to the corporate trust business of State Street Bank and Trust Company), as trustee (the "Trustee"), as identified in Schedule I hereto. To the extent there are no additional Underwriters listed on Schedule I or II other than you, the term Representatives as used herein shall mean you, as Underwriters, and the terms Representatives and Underwriters shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires. Certain terms used herein are defined in Section 17 hereof.
          The Company has filed with the Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-105129) and pre-effective amendment no. 1 thereto for the registration of the Securities under the 1933 Act, and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415, and the Company has filed such post-effective amendments thereto as may be required prior to the execution of this Agreement. Such registration statement (as so amended, if applicable) has been declared effective by the Commission and the Indenture has been duly qualified under the 1939 Act. Such registration statement (as so amended, if applicable), including the Rule 430A Information, if any, or Rule 434 Information, is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; and the final prospectus and the prospectus supplement relating to the offering of the Securities, in the form first furnished to the Underwriters by the Company for use in connection with the offering of the Securities, are collectively referred to herein as the "Prospectus"; provided, however, that all references to the "Registration Statement" and the "Prospectus" shall be deemed to include all documents incorporated therein by reference pursuant to the 1934 Act, prior to the execution of this Agreement; provided, further, that if the Company files a Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, then, after such filing, all references to "Registration Statement" shall be deemed to include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement; and provided, further, that if the Company elects to rely upon Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations, then all references to "Prospectus" shall be deemed to include the final or preliminary prospectus and the applicable term sheet or abbreviated term sheet (the "Term Sheet"), as the case may be, in the form first furnished to the Underwriters by the Company in reliance upon Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations, and all references in this Agreement to the date of the Prospectus shall mean the date of the Term Sheet. A "preliminary prospectus" shall be deemed to refer to any prospectus used before the registration statement became effective and any prospectus that omitted, as applicable, the Rule 430A Information, the Rule 434 Information or other information to be included upon pricing in a form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations, that was used after such effectiveness and prior to the execution and delivery of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, Prospectus, Term Sheet or preliminary prospectus or to any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR.
          All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, as the case may be; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the 1934 Act which is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, as the case may be.
                      1.      Representations and Warranties. The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, each Underwriter, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date (as defined below) (in each case, a "Representation Date") as set forth below in this Section 1.
           Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any subsidiary and delivered to the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the offering of the Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company, as to matters covered thereby, to each Underwriter on the date of such certificate and, unless subsequently amended or supplemented, at each Representation Date subsequent thereto.
                    2.       . Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter, and each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at the purchase price set forth in Schedule I hereto the principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in Schedule II hereto.
Purchase and Sale
                    3.       . Delivery of and payment for the Securities shall be made on the date and at the time specified in Schedule I hereto or at such time on such later date not more than three Business Days after the foregoing date as the Representatives shall designate, which date and time may be postponed by agreement between the Representatives and the Company or as provided in Section 9 hereof (such date and time of delivery and payment for the Securities being herein called the "Closing Date"). Delivery of the Securities shall be made to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the several Underwriters against payment by the several Underwriters through the Representatives of the purchase price thereof to or upon the order of the Company by wire transfer payable in same-day funds to an account specified by the Company. Delivery of the Securities shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company unless the Representatives shall otherwise instruct.
Delivery and Payment
                     4.        . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
                      5.       . The Company agrees with each of the several Underwriters that:
Agreements
                    6.       . The obligations of the Underwriters to purchase the Securities shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company contained herein as of the Execution Time and as of the Closing Date, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of the Underwriters
          If any condition specified in this Section 6 shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be in all material respects reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, this Agreement and all obligations of the Underwriters hereunder may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to the Closing Date and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 7 and except that Sections 1 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect. Notice of such termination shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing.
          The documents required to be delivered by this Section 6 shall be delivered at the office of Sidley Austin Brown & Wood LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, at 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019, on the Closing Date.
                      7.       .
Payment of Expenses
          (a)       The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing (if applicable) and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any Agreement among Underwriters, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale and delivery of the Securities, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the Securities to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors or agents, as well as the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its respective counsel, (v) the qualification of the Securities under state securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 5(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation, printing and delivery of the Blue Sky Survey and any Legal Investment Survey, and any amendment thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each preliminary prospectus, any Term Sheet, and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, (vii) the fees charged by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations for the rating of the Securities if applicable, (viii) the fees and expenses incurred with respect to the listing of the Securities if applicable, (ix) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the NASD of the terms of the sale of the Securities, and (x) the fees and expenses of any Underwriter acting in the capacity of a "qualified independent underwriter" (as defined in Rule 2720 of the Conduct Rules of the NASD), if applicable.
          (b)       If the sale of the Securities provided for herein is not consummated because any condition to the obligations of the Underwriters set forth in Section 6 hereof is not satisfied, because of any termination pursuant to Section 10 hereof or because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or comply with any provision hereof other than by reason of a default by any of the Underwriters, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters severally through the Representatives on demand for all out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) that shall have been incurred by them in connection with the proposed purchase and sale of the Securities.
                     8.        .
Indemnification and Contribution
          (a)       The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of either the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or in any amendment thereof, or arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact included in any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; , , that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have.
provided
however
           (b)       Each Underwriter severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signs the Registration Statement, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each Underwriter, but only with reference to written information relating to such Underwriter furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which any Underwriter may otherwise have. The Company acknowledges that the statements set forth in the last paragraph of the cover page regarding delivery of the Securities and, under the heading "Underwriting" or "Plan of Distribution", (i) the list of Underwriters and their respective participation in the sale of the Securities, (ii) the sentences related to concessions and reallowances, (iii) the sentences related to transactions in discretionary accounts and (iv) the paragraph related to stabilization, syndicate covering transactions and penalty bids in any preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the several Underwriters for inclusion in any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus.
          (c)       Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); , , that such counsel shall be reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest, (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding.
provided
however
           (d)       In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 8 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, the Company and the Underwriters severally agree to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending same) (collectively, "Losses") to which the Company and one or more of the Underwriters may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and by the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Securities. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the Company and the Underwriters severally shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations; , , that in no case shall any Underwriter (except as may be provided in any agreement among underwriters relating to the offering of the Securities) be responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the Securities purchased by such Underwriter hereunder. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by it, and benefits received by the Underwriters shall be deemed to be equal to the total underwriting discounts and commissions, in each case as set forth on the cover page of the Prospectus. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or any alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the Company on the one hand or the Underwriters on the other, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 8, each person who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of either the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act and each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
provided
however
                     9.       . If any one or more Underwriters shall fail to purchase and pay for any of the Securities agreed to be purchased by such Underwriter or Underwriters hereunder and such failure to purchase shall constitute a default in the performance of its or their obligations under this Agreement, the remaining Underwriters shall be obligated severally to take up and pay for (in the respective proportions which the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their names in Schedule II hereto bears to the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth opposite the names of all the remaining Underwriters) the Securities which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase; , , that in the event that the aggregate principal amount of Securities which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase shall exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule II hereto, the remaining Underwriters shall have the right to purchase all, but shall not be under any obligation to purchase any, of the Securities, and if such nondefaulting Underwriters do not purchase all the Securities, this Agreement will terminate without liability to any nondefaulting Underwriter or the Company. In the event of a default by any Underwriter as set forth in this Section 9, the Closing Date shall be postponed for such period, not exceeding five Business Days, as the Representatives shall determine in order that the required changes in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter of its liability, if any, to the Company and any nondefaulting Underwriter for damages occasioned by its default hereunder.
Default by an Underwriter
provided
however
                    10.       . This Agreement shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice given to the Company prior to delivery of and payment for the Securities, if at any time prior to such time (i) there has been, since the time of execution of this Underwriting Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, (ii) trading in the Company's common stock shall have been suspended by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited or minimum prices shall have been established on such Exchange, (iii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared by Federal, New York State or State of North Carolina authorities, (iv) there shall have occurred a material disruption in settlement and clearing services, or (v) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war, or other calamity or crisis the effect of which on financial markets is such as to make it, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated by the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement subsequent to the date hereof).
Termination
                     11.       . The respective agreements, representations, warranties, indemnities and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or the Company or any of the officers, directors, employees, agents or controlling persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. The provisions of Sections 7 and 8 hereof shall survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive
                     12.        . All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and, if sent to the Representatives, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., 383 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10179, attention of Joel S. Schlesinger, Senior Managing Director, High Grade Capital Markets department, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to 150 Stratford Road, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27104, attention of Scott E. Reed, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Notices
                     13.       . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers, directors, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
                    14.       . This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed within the State of New York.
Applicable Law
                    15.       . This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
                    16.       . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
                    17.        . The terms which follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated.
Definitions
          If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Company and the several Underwriters.
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date specified in Schedule I hereto.
BEAR, STEARNS & CO. INC.
BB&T CAPITAL MARKETS, A DIVISION OF SCOTT & STRlNGFELLOW, INC.
Underwriting Agreement dated December 16, 2003
Registration Statement No. 333-105129
Representatives:
Title, Purchase Price and Description of Securities:
          (1)       The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of the State of North Carolina.
          (2)       The Company has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under, or as contemplated under, the Underwriting Agreement.
          (3)       Based solely on a letter, dated as of a recent date, from the Secretary of the Board of Governors of Federal Reserve System, a copy of which has been delivered to you, the Company is duly registered as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.
          (4)       The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Prospectus, will not be an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
          (5)       Branch Banking and Trust Company is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of the State of North Carolina; Branch Banking and Trust Company of South Carolina is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of the State of South Carolina; Branch Banking and Trust Company of Virginia (together with Branch Banking and Trust Company and Branch Banking and Trust Company of South Carolina, the "Subsidiaries") is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia; and each of the Subsidiaries has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus.
          (6)       The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
          (7)       The Securities have been duly authorized by the Company for issuance and sale pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement. The Securities are in the form contemplated by, and each registered holder thereof is entitled to the benefits of, the Indenture.
          (8)       The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and has been duly qualified under the 1939 Act.
          (9)       The Securities being sold pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture conform, in all material respects, to the statements relating thereto contained in the Prospectus.
           (10)       The information in the Prospectus under "Description of the Debt Securities" or any caption purporting to describe any such Debt Securities, "Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations," "Regulatory Considerations" and in the Annual Report on Form 10-K under "Regulatory Considerations," to the extent that it constitutes matters of law, summaries of legal matters, the Company's charter and bylaws or legal proceedings, or legal conclusions, has been reviewed by us and is correct in all material respects.
          (11)       The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated in the Underwriting Agreement and in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (including the issuance and sale of the Securities) and compliance by the Company with its obligations thereunder do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or passage of time or both, constitute a breach of, or default or Repayment Event under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary pursuant to, any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any subsidiary is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound, or to which any of the assets, properties or operations of the Company or any subsidiary is subject, and that is filed as an exhibit to (i) the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 (and any amendment thereto) (as so amended, the "Annual Report on Form 10-K") , (ii) the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003 (and any amendment thereto), (iii) the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 (and any amendment thereto), (iv) the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 (and any amendment thereto), or (v) to the Registration Statement, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any Subsidiary, or any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree, known to us, of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary or any of their assets, properties or operations (provided that we are not rendering any opinion in this paragraph 11 with respect to state securities or blue sky laws or the disclosure provisions of the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act). As used herein, a "Repayment Event" means any event or condition which gives the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any subsidiary.
           (12)       To the best of our knowledge, there is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending or threatened, against or affecting the Company or any subsidiary thereof which is required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (other than as stated therein), or which might reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto) (a "Material Adverse Effect"), or which might reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the assets, properties or operations thereof or the consummation of the Underwriting Agreement, or the Indenture or the transactions contemplated therein.
          (13)       All descriptions in the Prospectus of contracts and other documents to which the Company or the Subsidiaries are a party are accurate in all material respects. To the best of our knowledge, there are no franchises, contracts, indentures, mortgages, loan agreements, notes, leases or other instruments required to be described or referred to in the Registration Statement or to be filed as exhibits thereto other than those described or referred to therein or filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits thereto, and the descriptions thereof or references thereto are correct in all material respects.
          (14)       To the best of our knowledge, there are no statutes or regulations that are required to be described in the Prospectus that are not described as required.
          (15)       The Registration Statement has been declared effective under the 1933 Act. Any required filing of the Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) has been made in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b). To the best of our knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the 1933 Act or proceedings therefor initiated or threatened by the Commission.
          (16)       The Registration Statement and the Prospectus, excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, and each amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement and Prospectus, excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, as of their respective effective or issue dates (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules included therein and each Trustee's Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 (the "Form T-1s"), as to which no opinion need be rendered) complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations.
           (17)       The documents incorporated by reference into the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules therein, as to which no opinion need be rendered), when they were filed with the Commission complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
          (18)       No filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency is necessary or required for the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement or in connection with the transactions contemplated under the Underwriting Agreement or the Indenture other than under the 1933 Act, the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1939 Act and the 1939 Act Regulations, which have been obtained, or as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws.
          In addition, in the course of our assistance with the preparation of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, we have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent public accountants for the Company, your representatives and your counsel, at which conferences the contents of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus were discussed. Although we do not pass upon and do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus and have not independently verified the accuracy, completeness or fairness of such statements (except as set forth in paragraphs 10, 13 and 14 above), on the basis of the foregoing and the information that was disclosed to us, (i) no facts came to our attention that lead us to believe that the Registration Statement (including any document filed under the 1934 Act and incorporated by reference therein), as of its effective date contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (except for financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto and the audit reports thereon, or any other information of a financial, numerical, statistical or accounting nature set forth or referred to in the Registration Statement or any document incorporated therein by reference or any exhibits thereto, including the Form T-1s, as to which we express no view) and (ii) no facts have come to our attention that lead us to believe that the Prospectus, as of its date or the date of this opinion, contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except for financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto and the audit reports thereon, or any other information of a financial, numerical, statistical or accounting nature set forth or referred to in the Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference, including the Form T-1s, as to which we express no view).
          In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact (but not as to legal conclusions), to the extent they deem proper, on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials. In rendering the opinion set forth in paragraph (3) and the first clause of paragraph (5) above, such counsel may rely exclusively upon certificates of appropriate officials of each such jurisdiction. Such opinion shall not state that it is to be governed or qualified by, or that it is otherwise subject to, any treatise, written policy or other document relating to legal opinions, including, without limitation, the Legal Opinion Accord of the ABA Section of Business Law (1991). Such counsel may state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Annex I
Form 8-K dated December 11, 2003 with audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2002
Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2003, June 30, 2003, and September 30, 2003, respectively
Draft Prospectus dated December 12, 2003 and Draft Prospectus Supplement dated December 12, 2003
Form 8-K dated November 19, 2003
Annex II
This comfort letter of BB&T Corporation (the "Company") is being delivered on behalf of the Company by Scott E. Reed, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, pursuant to Section 6(g) of the Underwriting Agreement dated December 16, 2003 among the Company and Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. and BB&T Capital Markets, a division of Scott & Stringfellow, Inc., as representatives of the underwriters named in Schedule I thereto.

Exhibit 4
This FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of December 23, 2003 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), is made and entered into by and between BB&T Corporation, a North Carolina corporation formerly known as Southern National Corporation ("BB&T"), and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association, successor to the corporate trust business of State Street Bank and Trust Company, as trustee (the "Trustee") under the Indenture Regarding Subordinated Securities, dated as of May 24, 1996 (the "Indenture").
WHEREAS, BB&T and the Trustee are parties to the Indenture which provides, pursuant to Section 2.01 and subject to compliance with other terms of the Indenture, for the issuance of an unlimited amount of Securities;
WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Indenture provides, among other things, that BB&T and the Trustee may amend the Indenture without the consent of the holders of any Securities to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained in the Indenture or in any supplemental indenture that may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained in the Indenture or in any supplemental indenture, or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under the Indenture that shall not adversely affect the interests of the holders of Outstanding Securities of any series or any related coupons;
WHEREAS, BB&T desires to amend the Indenture to remove Section 4.06 and Section 4.07 of the Indenture with respect to all series of Securities issued on or after the date hereof;
WHEREAS, the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of BB&T (the "Executive Committee") is duly authorized to act for the Board of Directors with respect to this First Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS, the Executive Committee has, by action duly taken, determined that the actions and other matters set forth in this First Supplemental Indenture do not adversely affect the interests of the holders of Outstanding Securities, approved the actions and other matters set forth in this First Supplemental Indenture, and authorized the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS, BB&T and the Trustee are executing and delivering this First Supplemental Indenture in order to provide therefor.
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises, and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, it is mutually agreed, for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of all holders of Securities:
This First Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of, is supplemental to, and is entered into in accordance with Section 9.01 of the Indenture and, except as modified, amended and supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture are ratified and confirmed in all respects and shall remain in full force and effect. The Indenture, as amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects acknowledged, ratified and confirmed. All provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of the Indenture, and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
The Indenture is hereby amended by deleting in their entirety from the Indenture Section 4.06 and Section 4.07 thereof with respect to all series of Securities issued on or after the date of this First Supplemental Indenture. This First Supplemental Indenture shall in no way amend or otherwise alter or affect the terms and provisions of any series of Securities issued prior to the date of this First Supplemental Indenture.
1.      All capitalized terms used in this First Supplemental Indenture that are defined in the Indenture have the respective meanings assigned to them therein, except to the extent such terms are otherwise defined in this First Supplemental Indenture or the context clearly requires otherwise.
Definitions.
2.       The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture. The recitals and statements herein are deemed to be those of BB&T and not of the Trustee.
Trustee Makes No Representations.
3.        This First Supplemental Indenture is effective as of December 23, 2003.
Effectiveness.
4.       All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements contained in this First Supplemental Indenture by BB&T shall bind its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not.
Provisions Binding on Successors.
5.     
THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND EACH SECURITY SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW.
6.      If and to the extent that any provision of this First Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof or with the Indenture which is required to be included in this First Supplemental Indenture or in the Indenture by the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, such required provision shall control.
Trust Indenture Act to Control.
7.      The titles and headings of the articles and sections of this Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture.
Effect of Headings.
8.       This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Execution in Counterparts.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
           On the day of , 2003, before me personally came , to me known, who, being by me duly sworn did depose and say that he resides at ; that he is the of BB&T Corporation, one of the corporations described in and which executed the above instrument; that he knows the corporate seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by the authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation; and that he signed his name thereto by like authority.
  19
th
  
  December  
  Scott E. Reed  
  3861 Guinevere Lane, Winston-Salem, NC 27104  
  Chief Financial Officer  
[NOTARIAL SEAL]
           On the day of , 2003, before me personally came , to me known, who, being by me duly sworn did depose and say that he resides at ; that he is a of U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association, one of the corporations described in and which executed the above instrument; that he knows the corporate seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by the authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation; and that he signed his name thereto by like authority.
  19  
th
  December  
  Patrick E. Thebado  
  Boston, MA    
  Vice President  
[NOTARIAL SEAL]


