FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20031202121435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure
     The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to announce the signing of a definitive agreement for BB&T to acquire Republic Bancshares, Inc. of St. Petersburg, Florida and to furnish certain related materials.
Dec. 2, 2003
BB&T to acquire Florida's Republic Bancshares Inc.
          WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. - BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) today said it plans to buy Republic Bancshares Inc. (Nasdaq: REPB) of St. Petersburg, Fla., in a $436 million transaction that represents entry into some of the strongest economic markets in the Southeast.
          With $2.8 billion in assets, Republic Bancshares operates 71 banking offices along the Gulf Coast and in central and southern Florida, including key markets in St. Petersburg, Tampa, Clearwater, Orlando, West Palm Beach, Boca Raton and Fort Lauderdale. The merger also will expand BB&T's presence into the high growth areas of Ocala, Sarasota and Bradenton.
          The transaction, approved by the directors of both companies, is valued at $32.12 per Republic Bancshares share based on BB&T's closing price as of Dec. 1, 2003, of $39.66.
          Republic Bancshares' shareholders may exchange their shares based on one of the following two options: a fixed exchange ratio of 0.81 of a share of BB&T stock for each share of REPB stock or a fixed cash price of $31.79 per share. The aggregate cash available is generally limited to 40 percent of the transaction value. The merger, which is subject to regulatory and shareholder approval, is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2004.
          The merger would represent BB&T's second in Florida and increase the number of BB&T branches in the Sunshine state to 89. BB&T acquired Regional Financial Corporation of Tallahassee, Fla., parent to First South Bank, in September 2002. First South branches opened as branches of BB&T in November 2002  the first banking offices to do business as BB&T in Florida.
          Republic Bancshares will give BB&T a presence in several Florida markets that are expected to be among the fasting growing in the nation. According to magazine, the Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater metropolitan statistical area will enjoy the nation's largest employment growth through 2025. And the Sarasota-Bradenton MSA is Florida's third fastest-growing market and one of the state's most affluent regions.
Newsweek
          "This is a key acquisition because it expands our presence in Florida, which has an underlying growth rate that is faster than that of our core markets," said BB&T Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Allison.
          "Republic Bancshares' current management team has done an excellent job revitalizing and energizing their company, resulting in positive momentum and excellent client service. They have the leadership talent to ensure BB&T creates a high performance organization in Florida."
          More jobs were created in Florida in 2003 than any other state in the nation. Nationally, Florida ranks fourth in population, labor force and the number of business establishments. In 2002, Florida was ranked the fifth most entrepreneur-friendly state.
          Republic Bancshares customers will be introduced to BB&T's strong branch-based sales culture and its broad product and services line, including insurance, mutual funds, trust, online banking, annuities, investment banking, retail brokerage, treasury services, leasing and international banking.
          BB&T will create two new community banking regions, one in the St. Petersburg area and one to be based on the east coast of Florida. BB&T divides its 11-state banking network into autonomous regions  each with its own president  which operate like community banks. Nearly all lending decisions are made locally.
          "Republic Bancshares, like BB&T, has a solid record of strong community commitment and, above all, excellent personal service, which is what makes this partnership so appealing," said Republic Bancshares President and Chief Executive Officer William R. Klich, who is also chairman and chief executive officer of Republic Bank.
          "It's unusual to find an institution of BB&T's size as highly focused on quality service as they are. And their community banking strategy allows local bankers to make their own decisions."
          Klich will become the Florida state president for BB&T as well as the regional president for the new community bank region based in St. Petersburg. J. Kenneth Coppedge, Republic Bank president, will be named regional president for Florida's east coast operations. BB&T's Florida bank will be headquartered in St. Petersburg.
          Two current members of the Republic Bancshares' board will be offered seats on the Branch Banking and Trust Company board, BB&T's lead banking subsidiary.
          Winston-Salem-based BB&T Corporation operates more than 1,350 banking offices in the Carolinas, Virginia, Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Indiana and Washington, D.C.
          With $90.4 billion in assets as of Sept. 30, BB&T Corp. is the nation's 11th largest financial holding company. BB&T was named this year to the Forbes Platinum 400 list of America's "Best Big Companies" for the fourth year in a row. More information on the merger is available at www.BBandT.com
          
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections.
          
Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a summary of important factors that could affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this press release.
          
BB&T's news releases are available at no charge through PR Newswire. For a menu of BB&T's news releases or to retrieve a specific release call 1-800-758-5804, extension 809325.
          
The foregoing may be deemed to be offering materials of BB&T Corporation in connection with BB&T's proposed acquisition of Republic Bancshares, on the terms and subject to the conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated December 1, 2003, between BB&T and Republic Bancshares.
          
BB&T and Republic Bancshares shareholders and other investors are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S-4, which BB&T will file with the Securities Exchange Commission in connection with the proposed merger because it will contain important information about BB&T, Republic Bancshares, the merger, the persons soliciting proxies in the merger and their interests in the merger and related matters.
          
After it is filed with the SEC, the proxy statement/prospectus will be available for free, both on the SEC web site (http://www.sec.gov) and from BB&T and Republic Bancshares as follows:
          
Alan W. Greer, Shareholder Reporting, BB&T Corporation, P.O. Box 1290, Winston-Salem, NC 27102. Telephone: (336) 733-3021.
          
William R. Falzone, Vice President and Treasurer, Republic Bancshares, 111 2nd Avenue, NE, St. Petersburg, FL 33701. Telephone: (727) 502-3771.
          
BB&T, Republic Bancshares and their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders of Republic in connection with this transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of BB&T may be found in BB&T's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 17, 2003 and will be incorporated by reference in the proxy statement/prospectus. Information about Republic Bancshares' directors and executive officers may be found in Republic Bancshares' proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 19, 2003 and will be incorporated by reference in the proxy statement/prospectus. You can obtain free copies of these documents as described above.
          
In addition to the proposed registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus, BB&T and Republic Bancshares file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information filed by either company at the SEC's public reference rooms at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549.
          
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. BB&T and Republic Bancshares filings with the SEC are also available to the public from commercial document-retrieval services and on the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov.
BB&T has made forward-looking statements in the accompanying analyst presentation materials that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of the management of BB&T, and on the information available to management at the time the analyst presentation materials were prepared. In particular, the analyst materials in this report include statements regarding estimated earnings per share of BB&T on a stand alone basis, expected cost savings from the merger, estimated merger or restructuring charges, estimated increases in Republic Bancshares, Inc.s fee income ratio and net interest margin, the anticipated accretive effect of the merger, and BB&T's anticipated performance in future periods. With respect to estimated cost savings and merger or restructuring charges, BB&T has made assumptions about, among other things, the extent of operational overlap between BB&T and Republic Bancshares, Inc., the amount of general and administrative expense consolidation, costs relating to converting Republic Bancshares, Inc.s bank operations and data processing to BB&T's systems, the size of anticipated reductions in fixed labor costs, the amount of severance expenses, the extent of the charges that may be necessary to align the companies' respective accounting policies, and the cost related to the merger. The realization of cost savings and the amount of merger or restructuring charges are subject to the risk that the foregoing assumptions are inaccurate.
Any statements in the accompanying exhibit regarding the anticipated accretive effect of the merger and BB&T's anticipated performance in future periods are subject to risks relating to, among other things, the following possibilities: (1) expected cost savings from this merger or other previously announced mergers may not be fully realized or realized within the expected time frame; (2) deposit attrition, customer loss or revenue loss following proposed mergers may be greater than expected; (3) competitive pressure among depository and other financial institutions may increase significantly; (4) costs or difficulties related to the integration of the businesses of BB&T and its merger partners, including Republic Bancshares, Inc., may be greater than expected; (5) changes in the interest rate environment may reduce margins; (6) general economic or business conditions, either nationally or regionally, may be less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality, or a reduced demand for credit; (7) legislative or regulatory changes, including changes in accounting standards, may adversely affect the businesses in which BB&T and Republic Bancshares, Inc. are engaged; (8) adverse changes may occur in the securities markets; and (9) competitors of BB&T and Republic Bancshares, Inc. may have greater financial resources and develop products that enable such competitors to compete more successfully than BB&T and Republic Bancshares, Inc.
BB&T believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. Such statements are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The future results and shareholder value of BB&T following completion of the merger may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results and values are beyond management's ability to control or predict.
Excluding merger-related and restructuring items
*
Based on closing price as of 12/01/03
*
  *Based on BB&T's closing stock price of $39.66 on 12/01/03 and assuming shareholders choose the stock election (option 1). **Individual shareholders will be able to elect the proportion of their shares they exchange for option 1 or option 2. To the extent that total cash elections received from shareholders exceed the aggregate cash available, shares exchanged for the cash election (option 2) will be reallocated to the stock election (option 1) on a proportional basis. The aggregate cash available is generally limited to 40% of the transaction value (based on $12.72 per share outstanding). However, in the event of a decline in the value of BB&T's stock, the aggregate cash available would be further subject to a maximum of 55% of the value of the transaction at closing.
*Assumes 100% stock election by shareholders.
*Source for Acquisition Comparables: SNL Financial
*Source for Acquisition Comparables: SNL Financial
*Excluding merger-related and restructuring items
Criteria are listed in order of importance. There are sometimes trade-offs among criteria. BB&T is primarily concerned with cash basis measures for each of the criterion above.
Republic Bancshares, Inc.
Financial Summary
The minority interest represents the interest expense related to trust preferred securities.
1
Republic Bancshares, Inc.
Financial Summary
Republic Bancshares, Inc.
Financial Summary
Return on Assets  Earnings (excluding merger-related and restructuring charges) for the period as a percentage of average assets for the period.
Return on Equity  Earnings (excluding merger-related and restructuring charges) for the period as a percentage of average common equity for the period.
Cash Basis Performance Results and Ratios  These calculations exclude the effect of intangible assets, amortization of intangibles, net amortization of purchase accounting mark-to-market adjustments, merger-related charges, and other nonrecurring charges.
Efficiency Ratio  Calculated as noninterest expense as a percentage of the sum of net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis and noninterest income (excludes securities gains/losses, foreclosed property expense, provisions for or the recaptures of the impairment of mortgage servicing rights, gains or losses on mortgage banking-related derivatives, merger-related charges and other nonrecurring charges).
Tier 1 Capital  Calculated as common shareholders' equity excluding unrealized gains or losses on debt securities available for sale, unrealized gains on equity securities available for sale and unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges, net of deferred income taxes; plus certain mandatorily redeemable capital securities, less nonqualifying intangible assets net of applicable deferred income taxes, and certain nonfinancial equity investments.
Leverage Capital Ratio  Tier 1 capital as a percentage of average tangible assets.
Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio  The sum of Tier 1 capital, a qualifying portion of subordinated debt and a qualifying portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Net Charge-Off Ratio  Loan and lease losses net of recoveries as a percentage of average loans and leases.
Net Revenue  Net interest income FTE before provision for loan losses plus noninterest income.
Internal Rate of Return  The interest rate that equates the present value of future returns to the investment outlay. An investment is considered acceptable if its IRR exceeds the required return. The investment is defined as the market value of the stock and/or other consideration to be received by the selling shareholders.
Certain of the ratios discussed above may be annualized if the applicable periods are less than a full year.
The foregoing may be deemed to be offering materials of BB&T Corporation ("BB&T") in connection with BB&T's proposed acquisition of Republic Bancshares, Inc. ("Republic") on the terms and subject to the conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated December 1, 2003, between BB&T and Republic.
After it is filed with the SEC, the proxy statement/prospectus will be available for free, both on the SEC's web site (http://www.sec.gov) and from Republic and BB&T, as follows:
Shareholders of Republic Bancshares, Inc., BB&T Corporation, and other investors are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S-4 which BB&T will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger because it will contain important information about BB&T; Republic Bancshares, Inc.; the merger; the persons soliciting proxies in the merger; and their interests in the merger and related matters.
BB&T, Republic and their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders of Republic in connection with this transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of BB&T may be found in BB&T's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 17, 2003 and will be incorporated by reference in the proxy statement/prospectus. Information about Republic's directors and executive officers may be found in Republic's proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC on March 19, 2003. You can obtain free copies of these documents as described above. In addition to the proposed registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus, BB&T & Republic file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. These filings also are available on the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


