FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20041025090330.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
ITEM 8.01   Other Events
     On October 20, 2004, BB&T Corporation (the "Company") entered into an underwriting agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1, with respect to the issuance and sale in an underwritten public offering (the "Subordinated Notes Offering") by the Company of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% Subordinated Notes due 2019 (the "Subordinated Notes"). The Subordinated Notes constitute a new series of debt securities under an indenture dated as of May 24, 1996, as amended, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association. The Subordinated Notes to be sold in the Subordinated Notes Offering were registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File no. 333-105129). The closing of the Subordinated Notes Offering is expected to occur on October 27, 2004.
ITEM 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits
    Exhibit 1.1   Underwriting Agreement dated as of October 20, 2004, by and among the Company and the underwriters named therein relating to the Subordinated Notes offering.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:       October 22, 2004

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Exhibit 1.1
New York, New York October 20, 2004
To the Representatives   named in Schedule I hereto   of the Underwriters named   in Schedule II hereto
          BB&T Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of North Carolina (the "Company"), proposes to sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule II hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, the principal amount of its securities identified in Schedule I hereto (the "Securities"), to be issued under an indenture relating to subordinated securities dated as of May 24, 1996, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 23, 2003 and the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 24, 2004 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association (successor to the corporate trust business of State Street Bank and Trust Company), as trustee (the "Trustee"), as identified in Schedule I hereto. To the extent there are no additional Underwriters listed on Schedule I or II other than you, the term Representatives as used herein shall mean you, as Underwriters, and the terms Representatives and Underwriters shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires. Certain terms used herein are defined in Section 17 hereof.
          The Company has filed with the Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-105129) and pre-effective amendment no. 1 thereto for the registration of the Securities under the 1933 Act, and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415, and the Company has filed such post-effective amendments thereto as may be required prior to the execution of this Agreement. Such registration statement (as so amended, if applicable) has been declared effective by the Commission and the Indenture has been duly qualified under the 1939 Act. Such registration statement (as so amended, if applicable), including the Rule 430A Information, if any, or Rule 434 Information, is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; and the final prospectus and the prospectus supplement relating to the offering of the Securities, in the form first furnished to the Underwriters by the Company for use in connection with the offering of the Securities, are collectively referred to herein as the "Prospectus"; provided, however, that all references to the "Registration Statement" and the "Prospectus" shall be deemed to include all documents incorporated therein by reference pursuant to the 1934 Act, prior to the execution of this Agreement; provided, further, that if the Company files a Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, then, after such filing, all references to "Registration Statement" shall be deemed to include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement; and provided, further, that if the Company elects to rely upon Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations, then all references to "Prospectus" shall be deemed to include the final or preliminary prospectus and the applicable term sheet or abbreviated term sheet (the "Term Sheet"), as the case may be, in the form first furnished to the Underwriters by the Company in reliance upon Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations, and all references in this Agreement to the date of the Prospectus shall mean the date of the Term Sheet. A "preliminary prospectus" shall be deemed to refer to any prospectus used before the registration statement became effective and any prospectus that omitted, as applicable, the Rule 430A Information, the Rule 434 Information or other information to be included upon pricing in a form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations, that was used after such effectiveness and prior to the execution and delivery of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, Prospectus, Term Sheet or preliminary prospectus or to any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR.
          All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, as the case may be; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the 1934 Act which is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, as the case may be.
                    1. Representations and Warranties. The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, each Underwriter, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date (as defined below) (in each case, a "Representation Date") as set forth below in this Section 1.
           Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any subsidiary and delivered to the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the offering of the Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company, as to matters covered thereby, to each Underwriter on the date of such certificate and, unless subsequently amended or supplemented, at each Representation Date subsequent thereto.
                    2. . Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter, and each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at the purchase price set forth in Schedule I hereto the principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in Schedule II hereto.
Purchase and Sale
                    3.  . Delivery of and payment for the Securities shall be made on the date and at the time specified in Schedule I hereto or at such time on such later date not more than three Business Days after the foregoing date as the Representatives shall designate, which date and time may be postponed by agreement between the Representatives and the Company or as provided in Section 9 hereof (such date and time of delivery and payment for the Securities being herein called the "Closing Date"). Delivery of the Securities shall be made to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the several Underwriters against payment by the several Underwriters through the Representatives of the purchase price thereof to or upon the order of the Company by wire transfer payable in same-day funds to an account specified by the Company. Delivery of the Securities shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company unless the Representatives shall otherwise instruct.
Delivery and Payment
                    4.  . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
                    5.  . The Company agrees with each of the several Underwriters that:
Agreements
                    6.  . The obligations of the Underwriters to purchase the Securities shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company contained herein as of the Execution Time and as of the Closing Date, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of the Underwriters
          If any condition specified in this Section 6 shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be in all material respects reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, this Agreement and all obligations of the Underwriters hereunder may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to the Closing Date and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 7 and except that Sections 1 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect. Notice of such termination shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing.
          The documents required to be delivered by this Section 6 shall be delivered at the office of Sidley Austin Brown & Wood LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, at 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019, on the Closing Date.
                    7.  .
Payment of Expenses
           (a) The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing (if applicable) and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any Agreement among Underwriters, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale and delivery of the Securities, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the Securities to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors or agents, as well as the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its respective counsel, (v) the qualification of the Securities under state securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 5(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation, printing and delivery of the Blue Sky Survey and any Legal Investment Survey, and any amendment thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each preliminary prospectus, any Term Sheet, and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, (vii) the fees charged by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations for the rating of the Securities if applicable, (viii) the fees and expenses incurred with respect to the listing of the Securities if applicable, (ix) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the NASD of the terms of the sale of the Securities, and (x) the fees and expenses of any Underwriter acting in the capacity of a "qualified independent underwriter" (as defined in Rule 2720 of the Conduct Rules of the NASD), if applicable.
                    8.  .
Indemnification and Contribution
                     9.  . If any one or more Underwriters shall fail to purchase and pay for any of the Securities agreed to be purchased by such Underwriter or Underwriters hereunder and such failure to purchase shall constitute a default in the performance of its or their obligations under this Agreement, the remaining Underwriters shall be obligated severally to take up and pay for (in the respective proportions which the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their names in Schedule II hereto bears to the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth opposite the names of all the remaining Underwriters) the Securities which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase; , , that in the event that the aggregate principal amount of Securities which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase shall exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule II hereto, the remaining Underwriters shall have the right to purchase all, but shall not be under any obligation to purchase any, of the Securities, and if such nondefaulting Underwriters do not purchase all the Securities, this Agreement will terminate without liability to any nondefaulting Underwriter or the Company. In the event of a default by any Underwriter as set forth in this Section 9, the Closing Date shall be postponed for such period, not exceeding five Business Days, as the Representatives shall determine in order that the required changes in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter of its liability, if any, to the Company and any nondefaulting Underwriter for damages occasioned by its default hereunder.
Default by an Underwriter
provided
however
                     10.  . This Agreement shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice given to the Company prior to delivery of and payment for the Securities, if at any time prior to such time (i) there has been, since the time of execution of this Underwriting Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, (ii) trading in the Company's common stock shall have been suspended by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited or minimum prices shall have been established on such Exchange, (iii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared by Federal, New York State or State of North Carolina authorities, (iv) there shall have occurred a material disruption in settlement and clearing services, or (v) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war, or other calamity or crisis the effect of which on financial markets is such as to make it, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated by the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement subsequent to the date hereof).
Termination
                    11.  . The respective agreements, representations, warranties, indemnities and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or the Company or any of the officers, directors, employees, agents, partners or controlling persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. The provisions of Sections 7 and 8 hereof shall survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive
                    12.  . All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and, if sent to the Representatives, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., 383 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10179, attention of Joel S. Schlesinger, Senior Managing Director, High Grade Capital Markets department, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to 150 Stratford Road, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27104, attention of Scott E. Reed, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Notices
                     13.  . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers, directors, employees, agents, partners and controlling persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
                     14.  . This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed within the State of New York.
Applicable Law
                     15.  . This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
                     16.  . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
                     17.  . The terms which follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated.
Definitions
          If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Company and the several Underwriters.
Underwriting Agreement dated October 20, 2004
Registration Statement No. 333-105129
Representatives:
Title, Purchase Price and Description of Securities:
Exhibit A
          (1)       The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of the State of North Carolina.
          (2)       The Company has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under, or as contemplated under, the Underwriting Agreement.
          (3)       The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
          (4)       The Securities have been duly authorized by the Company for issuance and sale pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement.
          (5)       The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
          (6)       Branch Banking and Trust Company is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of the State of North Carolina; Branch Banking and Trust Company of South Carolina (together with Branch Banking and Trust Company, the "Subsidiaries") is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of the State of South Carolina; and each of the Subsidiaries has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus.
          (7)       The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated in the Underwriting Agreement and in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (including the issuance and sale of the Securities) and compliance by the Company with its obligations thereunder do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or passage of time or both, result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any Subsidiary or any applicable North Carolina law, statute, rule, or regulation, or, to my knowledge, any judgment, order, writ or decree of any North Carolina government, government instrumentality or court having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary or any of their assets, properties or operations (provided that I am not rendering any opinion in this paragraph 7 with respect to North Carolina state securities or blue sky laws or with respect to the municipal laws or the laws, rules or regulations of non-state local agencies or governmental authorities within the State of North Carolina, or in each case as to any matters arising thereunder or relating thereto).
          (8)       To the best of my knowledge, there is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending or threatened, against or affecting the Company or any subsidiary thereof which is required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (other than as stated therein), or which might reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), earnings, business, assets, operations or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto) (a "Material Adverse Effect"), or which might reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the consummation of the Underwriting Agreement, or the Indenture or the transactions contemplated therein.
          (9)       The documents incorporated by reference into the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules therein, as to which no opinion need be rendered), when they were filed with the Commission complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
          (10)       No filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any North Carolina court or governmental authority or agency is necessary or required for the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement or in connection with the transactions contemplated under the Underwriting Agreement or the Indenture other than as may be required under North Carolina state securities or blue sky laws.
          In addition, (i) no facts came to my attention that lead me to believe that the Registration Statement (including any document filed under the 1934 Act and incorporated by reference therein), as of the date of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and the date of any amendment to the Annual Report, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (except for financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto and the audit reports thereon, or any other information of a financial, numerical, statistical or accounting nature set forth or referred to in the Registration Statement or in any document incorporated therein by reference or any exhibits thereto, including the Form T-1s, as to which I express no view) and (ii) no facts have come to my attention that lead me to believe that the Prospectus, as of its date or the date of this opinion, contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except for financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto and the audit reports thereon, or any other information of a financial, numerical, statistical or accounting nature set forth or referred to in the Prospectus or in any document incorporated therein by reference, including the Form T-1s, as to which I express no view).
          In rendering the opinions set forth in paragraph (1) and the first two clauses of paragraph (6), such counsel may rely exclusively upon certificates of appropriate officials of the relevant jurisdiction. Such opinion shall not state that it is to be governed or qualified by, or that it is otherwise subject to, any treatise, written policy or other document relating to legal opinions, including, without limitation, the Legal Opinion Accord of the ABA Section of Business Law (1991). Such counsel may state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, she has relied, to the extent she deems proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Exhibit B
          (1)      Based solely on a letter, dated as of a recent date, from the Secretary of the Board of Governors of Federal Reserve System, a copy of which has been delivered to you, the Company is duly registered as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.
          (2)       Branch Banking and Trust Company of Virginia is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus.
          (3)      The Securities are in the form contemplated by, and each registered holder thereof is entitled to the benefits of, the Indenture.
          (4)      The Indenture has been duly qualified under the 1939 Act.
          (5)      The Securities being sold pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture conform, in all material respects, to the statements relating thereto contained in the Prospectus.
          (6)      The information in the Prospectus under "Description of the Notes," "Description of the Debt Securities" (excluding any information under the subheading "Senior Debt Securities") or any caption purporting to describe the Securities, "Material United States Federal Tax Considerations," and "Regulatory Considerations" and in the Annual Report on Form 10-K under "Regulatory Considerations," to the extent that it constitutes matters of law, summaries of legal matters, or legal conclusions, has been reviewed by us and is correct in all material respects.
          (7)      The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated in the Underwriting Agreement and in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (including the issuance and sale of the Securities) and compliance by the Company with its obligations thereunder do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or passage of time or both, constitute a breach of, or default or Repayment Event under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary pursuant to, any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any subsidiary is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the assets, properties or operations of the Company or any subsidiary is subject, and that in each case is filed as an exhibit to (i) the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 (and any amendment thereto) (as so amended, the "Annual Report on Form 10-K") , (ii) the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 (and any amendment thereto), (iii) the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 (and any amendment thereto), or (iv) the Registration Statement, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of Branch Bank and Trust Company of Virginia, any applicable federal or New York law, statute, rule, or regulation, or, to our knowledge, any judgment, order, writ or decree of any federal or New York government, government instrumentality or court having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary or any of their assets, properties or operations (provided that we are not rendering any opinion in this paragraph 7 with respect to state securities or blue sky laws or the disclosure provisions of the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act or with respect to the municipal laws or the laws, rules or regulations of non-state local agencies or governmental authorities of or within the State of New York, or in each case as to any matters arising thereunder or relating thereto). As used herein, a "Repayment Event" means any event or condition which gives the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any subsidiary.
          (8)      To the best of our knowledge, there is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending or threatened, against or affecting the Company or any subsidiary thereof which is required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (other than as stated therein), or which might reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), earnings, business, assets, operations or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto) (a "Material Adverse Effect"), or which might reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the consummation of the Underwriting Agreement, or the Indenture or the transactions contemplated therein.
          (9)      The Registration Statement has been declared effective under the 1933 Act. Any required filing of the Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) has been made in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b). To the best of our knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the 1933 Act or proceedings therefor initiated or threatened by the Commission.
          (10)      The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Prospectus, will not be an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
          (11)      The Registration Statement and the Prospectus, excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, and each amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement and Prospectus, excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, as of their respective effective or issue dates (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules included therein and each Trustee's Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 (the "Form T-1s"), as to which no opinion need be rendered) complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations.
          (12)      No filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency is necessary or required for the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement or in connection with the transactions contemplated under the Underwriting Agreement or the Indenture other than under the 1933 Act, the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1939 Act and the 1939 Act Regulations, which have been obtained, or as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws.
          In rendering the opinion set forth in paragraph (1), such counsel may rely exclusively upon a certificate of appropriate officials of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. In rendering the opinion set forth in the first clause of paragraph (2), such counsel may rely exclusively upon certificates of appropriate officials of the relevant jurisdiction. Such opinion shall not state that it is to be governed or qualified by, or that it is otherwise subject to, any treatise, written policy or other document relating to legal opinions, including, without limitation, the Legal Opinion Accord of the ABA Section of Business Law (1991). Such counsel may state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Exhibit C
          While we cannot opine as to factual matters, we have participated, in the course of serving as special counsel to the Company in connection with the preparation of the Prospectus Supplement and the offering of the Securities, in discussions with representatives of the Company, the Company's independent public accountants, the Representatives and Underwriters' counsel during which the contents of drafts of the Prospectus Supplement were discussed and the contents of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus were discussed.
          We can advise you that, although we have made no independent investigation or verification of the correctness and completeness of the information included in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus (except as set forth in paragraph 6 in our opinion to you dated even date herewith), nothing has come to our attention that has caused us to believe that (i) as of the date of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 (the "Annual Report") and the date of any amendment to the Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Registration Statement (other than the financial statements, including supporting schedules, other financial and statistical data therein and documents incorporated by reference therein, including, without limitation, Forms T-1, as to all of which we express no belief) contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or (ii) as of the date of the Underwriting Agreement or the date of this letter, the Prospectus (other than the financial statements, including supporting schedules, other financial and statistical data therein and documents incorporated by reference therein, including, without limitation, Forms T-1, as to all of which we express no belief) contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
          It is important to emphasize that the character of determinations involved in the registration process is such, however, that we do not assume any responsibility herein for (and shall not be deemed to have passed upon) the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (except as set forth in paragraph 6 in our opinion to you dated even date herewith).
Annex I
Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and June 30, 2004, respectively
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003
Prospectus dated December 16, 2003 and Draft Prospectus Supplement dated October 20, 2004
Form 8-K dated October 18, 2004
Annex II
This comfort letter of BB&T Corporation (the "Company") is being delivered on behalf of the Company by Scott E. Reed, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, pursuant to Section 6(h) of the Underwriting Agreement dated October 20, 2004 among the Company and Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. and BB&T Capital Markets, a division of Scott & Stringfellow, Inc., as representatives of the underwriters named in Schedule II thereto.


