FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20040927172316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
ITEM 8.01   Other Events
           On September 23, 2004, Consent Solicitations of holders of BB&T's 6.50% Subordinated Notes due 2011 ("2011 Notes") and 4.75% Subordinated Notes due 2012 ("2012 Notes") were completed. Consents were received from holders of a sufficient aggregate principal amount of each series to permit BB&T and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, to execute on September 24, 2004, a Second Supplemental Indenture to Indenture Regarding Subordinated Securities. The Second Supplemental Indenture amends the terms of the Indenture and the 2011 Notes and the 2012 Notes such that BB&T may now include the 2011 Notes and the 2012 Notes in its calculations of Tier 2 capital and total regulatory capital for purposes of future Federal Reserve filings.
           The Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 24, 2004 to Indenture Regarding Subordinated Securities Dated as of May 24, 1996, is attached as exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:       September 27, 2004

Exhibit 99.1
This SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of September 24, 2004 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture"), is made and entered into by and between BB&T Corporation, a North Carolina corporation formerly known as Southern National Corporation ("BB&T"), and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association, successor to the corporate trust business of State Street Bank and Trust Company, as trustee (the "Trustee"), under the Indenture Regarding Subordinated Securities, dated as of May 24, 1996, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 23, 2003 by and between BB&T and the Trustee (the "Indenture").
WHEREAS, BB&T and the Trustee are parties to the Indenture which provides, pursuant to Section 2.01 and subject to compliance with other terms of the Indenture, for the issuance of an unlimited amount of Securities;
WHEREAS, Section 9.02 of the Indenture provides, among other things, that BB&T and the Trustee may amend the Indenture with the consents of holders of not less than 51% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, to add, change, or eliminate any of the provisions of the Indenture or modify the rights of the holders of the Securities of each series (subject to certain exceptions);
WHEREAS, Section 9.04 of the Indenture provides, among other things, that once Securities of a series have been modified to conform with a supplemental indenture, and have been prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee, such Securities may be delivered for the Outstanding Securities of such series in accordance with Section 2.06;
WHEREAS, BB&T desires to amend the Indenture pursuant to Section 9.02 to remove Section 4.06 and Section 4.07 and subsections (c), (d), (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 with respect to the 6.50% Subordinated Notes due 2011 and the 4.75% Subordinated Notes due 2012 (collectively the "Notes") as set forth in Section 1 under the heading "Amendments to Indenture And Notes";
WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Indenture provides, among other things, that BB&T and the Trustee may amend the Indenture without the consent of the holders of any Securities to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained in the Indenture or in any supplemental indenture that may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained in the Indenture or in any supplemental indenture, or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under the Indenture that shall not adversely affect the interests of the holders of Outstanding Securities of any series or any related coupons;
WHEREAS, BB&T desires to amend the Indenture pursuant to Section 9.01 to remove subsections (c), (d), (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 with respect to all series of Securities (as defined in the Indenture) to be issued on and after the date hereof under the Indenture as set forth in Section 2 under the heading "Amendments to Indenture and Notes";
WHEREAS, the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of BB&T (the "Executive Committee") is duly authorized to act for the Board of Directors with respect to this Second Supplemental Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Executive Committee has, by action duly taken, approved the form of this Second Supplemental Indenture, the obtaining of the necessary consents of the holders of the Notes to the proposed amendments to the Indenture and Notes set forth in Section 1 under the heading "Amendments to Indenture and Notes," as required under Section 9.02 of the Indenture, and the actions and other matters set forth in this Second Supplemental Indenture, and authorized the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture promptly upon receipt of the consents of the holders of not less than 51% of the aggregate principal amount of each series of the Notes to the proposed amendments to the Indenture and the Notes set forth in Section 1 under the heading "Amendments to Indenture and Notes";
WHEREAS, the consents of holders of at least 51% of the aggregate principal amount of each series of the Notes has been obtained with respect to the proposed amendments set forth in Section 1 under the heading "Amendments to Indenture and Notes;" and
WHEREAS, BB&T and the Trustee are executing and delivering this Second Supplemental Indenture in order to provide therefor.
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, it is mutually agreed, for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of all holders of Securities:
This Second Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of, is supplemental to, and is entered into in accordance with Section 9.01, Section 9.02 and Section 9.04 of the Indenture and, except as modified, amended and supplemented by this Second Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture are ratified and confirmed in all respects and shall remain in full force and effect. The Indenture, as amended by this Second Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects acknowledged, ratified and confirmed. All provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of the Indenture, and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Second Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
1.      The Indenture is hereby amended by deleting in their entirety from the Indenture Sections 4.06 and 4.07 and subsections (c), (d), (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 with respect to the Notes.
Amendments Regarding the Notes.
The faces of the Notes are hereby amended by adding the following legend language: "This Security is not a deposit or other obligation of an insured depository institution and is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other governmental agency".
2.      The Indenture is hereby amended by deleting subsections (c), (d), (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 with respect to all series of Securities issued on or after the date of this Second Supplemental Indenture.
Amendments Regarding Future Securities.
3.      . This Second Supplemental Indenture shall in no way amend or otherwise alter or affect the terms and provisions of any series of Securities issued prior to the date of this Second Supplemental Indenture (other than the Notes) unless specifically stated herein.
No Further Amendment
1.      . All capitalized terms used in this Second Supplemental Indenture that are defined in the Indenture have the respective meanings assigned to them therein, except to the extent such terms are otherwise defined in this Second Supplemental Indenture or the context clearly requires otherwise.
Definitions
2.     Trustee Makes No Representations. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Second Supplemental Indenture. The recitals and statements herein are deemed to be those of BB&T and not of the Trustee.
3.     Effectiveness. This Second Supplemental Indenture is effective as of September 24, 2004.
4.      All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements contained in this Second Supplemental Indenture by BB&T shall bind its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not.
Provisions Binding on Successors.
5.     
THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND EACH SECURITY SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW.
6.      . If and to the extent that any provision of this Second Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof or with the Indenture which is required to be included in this Second Supplemental Indenture or in the Indenture by the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, such required provision shall control.
Trust Indenture Act to Control
7.      . The titles and headings of the articles and sections of this Second Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture.
Effect of Headings
8.      This Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Execution in Counterparts.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first above written.


