FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20040413150153.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM 12.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to file BB&T's first quarter 2004 earnings release.
EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit 99.1 Quarterly Performance Summary issued April 13, 2004
April 13, 2004
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
BB&T announces 1 quarter net income of $328.5 million; operating earnings increase 1.2% to $334.6 million
st
          WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) reported today net income for the first quarter of 2004 totaling $328.5 million, or $.60 per diluted share. Net income increased slightly compared with $327.7 million earned in the first quarter of 2003, while diluted earnings per share reflected a decrease of 13.0% compared to earnings of $.69 during the same period last year.
          Excluding the effects of expenses associated with mergers and acquisitions, operating earnings totaled $334.6 million for the first quarter of 2004, an increase of 1.2% compared to 2003. Diluted operating earnings per share were $.61, a decrease of 12.9% compared with $.70 earned during the first quarter of 2003. Merger-related charges for the first quarter of 2004 totaled $6.1 million after-tax.
          BB&T's first quarter net income produced annualized returns on average assets and average shareholders' equity of 1.43% and 12.93%, respectively. On an operating basis, the annualized returns on average assets and average shareholders' equity were 1.46% and 13.17%, respectively.
          Cash basis operating results exclude the unamortized balances of intangibles from assets and shareholders' equity and exclude the effects of amortization of intangibles, as well as the net amortization of purchase accounting mark-to-market adjustments and merger-related charges from earnings. Cash basis operating earnings totaled $355.0 million for the first quarter of 2004, an increase of 6.0% compared to the first quarter of 2003. Current quarter cash basis diluted earnings per share decreased 9.9% to $.64, compared to $.71 earned during the same period in 2003. Cash basis operating earnings for the first quarter of 2004 produced an annualized return on average tangible assets of 1.62% and an annualized return on average tangible shareholders' equity of 23.93%.
          "Our first quarter performance was disappointing in comparison to past trends," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John A. Allison. "However, we continue to believe that performance will improve as the year progresses and, in fact, we are beginning to see progress in several important areas. Our first quarter earnings were hampered by a substantial decrease in mortgage banking income. Higher mortgage rates for most of the first quarter caused a substantial decrease in mortgage originations and resulting income, the retention of fixed rate mortgage loans greatly reduced gains from sales of mortgages, and a drop in rates in mid-March produced net writedowns in the value of our mortgage servicing rights, despite an effective performance from our risk management hedging program related to mortgage servicing rights. These net writedowns also negatively affected mortgage banking income. There are a number of positive trends  loan growth has significantly increased, our noninterest income generating businesses, excluding mortgage, are growing and our asset quality continues to improve and remains very strong. I remain confident about the remainder of 2004 as we work to fully integrate recent acquisitions and to improve our efficiency.
          "On March 19, we announced that we were projecting operating earnings per diluted share for 2004 in the range of $2.75 to $2.90," said Allison. "We continue to believe that earnings will improve substantially in the third and fourth quarters of this year and we continue to feel comfortable with this earnings projection." Calculated on a basis consistent with generally accepted accounting principles, the projection for 2004 earnings per diluted share is $2.71 to $2.86.
Average Loans Grow 10.0%
          Average loans and leases totaled $63.2 billion for the first quarter, reflecting an increase of $1.5 billion, or 10.0% on an annualized basis, compared to the fourth quarter of 2003. This reflects the strongest overall quarterly growth rate in three years. During the first quarter of 2004, commercial loan demand in BB&T's markets noticeably improved, with loans growing at an annualized rate of 7.0% compared to the fourth quarter of 2003. Consumer loan growth also accelerated, with average direct retail loans and revolving credit each growing at annualized rates of 11.4% compared to the fourth quarter last year. The strongest performance was in mortgage loans, which grew at an annualized rate of 25.7% compared to the fourth quarter of 2003. This growth was driven, in part, by the retention of fixed rate mortgages in recent quarters. In addition, lower mortgage rates in March have produced a significant increase in mortgage applications and originations; however, since much of the growth in mortgage loans occurred late in the quarter, most of the related benefit to earnings will be realized beginning in the second quarter of this year.
Asset Quality Continues to Improve
          BB&T's total nonperforming assets and net charge-offs both improved during the current quarter and continued their steady improvement since the first quarter of 2003. Nonperforming assets as a percentage of total assets decreased to .47% at March 31 compared to .49% and .60% at Dec. 31, 2003 and March 31, 2003, respectively. Annualized net charge-offs were .36% of average loans and leases for the first quarter of 2004, down from .42% in the fourth quarter of 2003 and ..47% in the first quarter of 2003. Excluding losses at BB&T's specialized lending subsidiaries, annualized net charge-offs for the current quarter were .25% of average loans and leases compared to .31% in the fourth quarter of 2003 and .35% in the first quarter of 2003.
BB&T's Noninterest Income Producing Businesses Continue to Expand
          BB&T's noninterest income generating businesses continued to produce healthy growth with the exception of mortgage banking. Total noninterest income was $478.2 million for the first quarter of 2004, an increase of 7.5% compared with the same period in 2003. Excluding the decrease in mortgage banking and fluctuations in securities gains and losses, noninterest income grew 34.5%. Excluding mortgage banking, securities gains and losses and the effects of acquisitions, noninterest income increased 15.6%. Higher revenues from BB&T's insurance operations, as well as growth in income from investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions, service charges on deposit accounts and other nondeposit fees and commissions, were the primary drivers of this growth.
          BB&T's insurance operations were the largest provider of noninterest income during the quarter, as insurance commissions totaled $123.7 million, an increase of 39.5% compared with $88.7 million earned during the first quarter of 2003. The expansion of BB&T's insurance network through acquisitions, the largest of which was the merger with McGriff, Seibels & Williams Inc., combined with solid internal growth, drove the increase. Excluding the effect of acquisitions, insurance commissions increased 10.1%.
          BB&T's investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions totaled $76.6 million for the first quarter of 2004, an increase of 46.4% compared to the $52.3 million earned during the same period last year. The increase was driven by growth in retail brokerage commissions and revenues from investment banking services.
          Service charges for deposit-related services totaled $122.8 million during the first quarter of 2004, an increase of 26.9% compared to the first quarter of 2003. This increase resulted from service charge income from acquired institutions and growth in commercial account analysis fees. Excluding the effect of acquisitions, service charges for deposits increased 6.6%.
          Other nondeposit fees and commissions increased 27.3% to $71.6 million compared with the same quarter last year. This growth resulted primarily from increased income from credit and debit card-related services, ATM services and other miscellaneous bank services. Excluding the effect of acquisitions, other nondeposit fees and commissions increased 9.7%.
BB&T's Commitment to its Clients and Employees Recognized Nationally
           During the first quarter, BB&T's commitment to client service was recognized by national research organizations. J.D. Power and Associates ranked BB&T 2nd overall in home mortgage servicing customer satisfaction in the country. In the same survey, BB&T ranked No. 1 among banks for the second consecutive year. BB&T's commitment to employee advancement through innovative training was also nationally recognized during the quarter. BB&T placed in the top 6% of organizations evaluated in 2004 "Training Top 100." 2004 marks the second consecutive year BB&T has been recognized in this evaluation.
Training Magazine's
BB&T Insurance Services Expands to New Markets and Business Lines
          On Feb. 1, BB&T Insurance Services successfully completed its acquisition of McGriff, Seibels & Williams Inc. of Birmingham, Ala., creating the sixth largest insurance broker in the nation. The merger vastly enhanced BB&T's national insurance presence and positioned BB&T Insurance Services as one of the premier providers of insurance and risk management services in the country.
          On April 1, BB&T Insurance Services acquired Iler Wall & Shonter ("IWS") of St. Petersburg, Fla. IWS is a full-service agency specializing in commercial property and casualty insurance, personal property and liability, employee benefits, life insurance and financial planning.
          At March 31, BB&T had $94.3 billion in assets and operated more than 1,350banking offices in the Carolinas, Virginia, West Virginia, Kentucky, Georgia, Maryland, Tennessee, Florida, Alabama, Indiana and Washington, D.C. BB&T's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol BBT. The closing price of BB&T's common stock on April 12 was $34.90 per share.
          For additional information about BB&T's financial performance, company news, products and services, please visit our website at .
www.BBandT.com
Earnings Webcast
          To hear a live webcast of BB&T's first quarter 2004 earnings conference call at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) today, please visit our website at Replays of the conference call will be available through our website until 5 p.m. (EDT) April 26.
www.BBandT.com
.
           
This press release contains financial information determined by methods other than in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). BB&T's management uses these non-GAAP measures in their analysis of the Company's performance. These measures typically adjust GAAP performance measures to exclude the effects of charges, expenses and gains related to the consummation of mergers and acquisitions, and costs related to the integration of merged entities, as well as the amortization of intangibles and purchase accounting mark-to-market adjustments in the case of "cash basis" performance measures. These non-GAAP measures may also exclude other significant gains, losses or expenses that are unusual in nature and not expected to recur. Since these items and their impact on BB&T's performance are difficult to predict, management believes presentations of financial measures excluding the impact of these items provide useful supplemental information that is essential to a proper understanding of the operating results of BB&T's core businesses. These disclosures should not be viewed as a substitute for results determined in accordance with GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies.
           
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections. Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a summary of important factors that could affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this press release.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:       April 13, 2004


