FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20050701160450.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events
 
On June 30, 2005, BB&T Corporation (the "Company") entered into an underwriting agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1, with respect to the Company's issuance and sale (the "Subordinated Notes Offering") of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.900% Subordinated Notes due 2017 (the "Subordinated Notes"). The Subordinated Notes to be sold in the Subordinated Notes Offering were registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File no. 333-105129).
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit 1.1 Underwriting Agreement by and among the Company and the underwriters named therein relating to the Subordinated Notes Offering.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 1, 2005

Exhibit 1.1
 
 
 
 
New York, New York
June 23, 2005, as amended June 30, 2005
 
To the Representatives
  named in Schedules I and II hereto
  of the Underwriters named
  in Schedule III hereto
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
BB&T Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of North Carolina (the "Company"), proposes to sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule III hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, the principal amount of its securities identified in Schedule III hereto (the "Securities"), to be issued under an indenture relating to subordinated securities dated as of May 24, 1996, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 23, 2003 and the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 24, 2004 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association (successor to the corporate trust business of State Street Bank and Trust Company), as trustee (the "Trustee"), as identified in Schedule I and Schedule II hereto. To the extent there are no additional Underwriters listed on Schedule I, II or III other than you, the term Representatives as used herein shall mean you, as Underwriters, and the terms Representatives and Underwriters shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires. Certain terms used herein are defined in Section 17 hereof.
 
The Company has filed with the Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-105129) and pre-effective amendment no. 1 thereto for the registration of the Securities under the 1933 Act, and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415, and the Company has filed such post-effective amendments thereto as may be required prior to the execution of this Agreement. Such registration statement (as so amended, if applicable) has been declared effective by the Commission and the Indenture has been duly qualified under the 1939 Act. Such registration statement (as so amended, if applicable), including the Rule 430A Information, if any, or Rule 434 Information, is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; and the final prospectus and the prospectus supplement relating to the offering of the Securities, in the form first furnished to the Underwriters by the Company for use in connection with the offering of the Securities, are collectively referred to herein as the "Prospectus"; provided, however, that all references to the "Registration Statement" and the "Prospectus" shall be deemed to include all documents incorporated therein by reference pursuant to the 1934 Act, prior to the execution of this Agreement; provided, further, that if the Company files a Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, then, after such filing, all references to "Registration Statement" shall be deemed to include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement; and provided, further, that if
the Company elects to rely upon Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations, then all references to "Prospectus" shall be deemed to include the final or preliminary prospectus and the applicable term sheet or abbreviated term sheet (the "Term Sheet"), as the case may be, in the form first furnished to the Underwriters by the Company in reliance upon Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations, and all references in this Agreement to the date of the Prospectus shall mean the date of the Term Sheet. A "preliminary prospectus" shall be deemed to refer to any prospectus used before the registration statement became effective and any prospectus that omitted, as applicable, the Rule 430A Information, the Rule 434 Information or other information to be included upon pricing in a form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations, that was used after such effectiveness and prior to the execution and delivery of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, Prospectus, Term Sheet or preliminary prospectus or to any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR.
 
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, as the case may be; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the 1934 Act which is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, as the case may be. All references in this Agreement to "the date hereof" or "the date of this Agreement" or similar phrases shall refer to June 23, 2005 and June 30, 2005.
 
1. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, each Underwriter, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date (as defined below) (in each case, a "Representation Date") as set forth below in this Section 1.
Representations and Warranties
 
(a) . The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act. Each of the Registration Statement and any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement has become effective under the 1933 Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the 1939 Act.
Compliance with Registration Requirements
 
At the respective times the Registration Statement, any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto (including the filing of the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K (and any amendment thereto) with the Commission (as so amended, the "Annual Report on Form 10-K")) became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement, any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement and any amendments and supplements thereto complied and will
 
comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations (including, without limitation, all applicable requirements of Regulation S-X) and the 1939 Act and the 1939 Act Regulations and did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, the Prospectus and any amendments and supplements thereto did not and will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. If the Company elects to rely upon Rule 434, the Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 434. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or the Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus.
 
Each preliminary prospectus and prospectus filed as part of the Registration Statement as originally filed or as part of any amendment thereto, or filed pursuant to Rule 424(b), complied when so filed in all material respects with the 1933 Act Regulations and, if applicable, each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of Securities will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
 
(b) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations (including, without limitation, all applicable requirements of Regulation S-X) and, when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not and will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
 
(c) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of this Agreement
 
(d) . The Securities have been duly authorized by the Company for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement. Such Securities, when issued and authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the consideration therefor specified in this Agreement, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles, and except further as enforcement thereof may be limited by (A) requirements that a claim with respect to any Securities denominated other than in U.S. dollars (or a foreign or composite currency
Authorization of Securities
 
judgment in respect of such claim) be converted into U.S. dollars at a rate of exchange prevailing on a date determined pursuant to applicable law or (B) governmental authority to limit, delay or prohibit the making of payments outside the United States. Such Securities will be in the form contemplated by, and each registered holder thereof is entitled to the benefits of, the Indenture.
 
(e) . The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles.
Authorization of the Indenture
 
(f) . The Securities being sold pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture will conform in all material respects to the statements relating thereto contained in the Prospectus.
Descriptions of the Securities and Indenture
 
(g) . To the best of the Company's knowledge, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has authorized to be taken or has taken any action which would constitute a violation of any provision of its respective charter or by-laws and no default by the Company or any subsidiary exists in the due performance or observance of any material obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument that is described in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or filed or incorporated by reference as an exhibit to the Registration Statement.
No Violation of Charter or By-laws; Due Performance
 
(h) No filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency is necessary or required for the performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement or in connection with the transactions contemplated under this Agreement or the Indenture other than under the 1933 Act, the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1939 Act and the 1939 Act Regulations, which have been obtained, or as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws.
No Filings, etc.
 
Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any subsidiary and delivered to the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company, as to matters covered thereby, to each Underwriter on the date of such certificate and, unless subsequently amended or supplemented, at each Representation Date subsequent thereto.
 
2. .
Amendments to Remarketing Agreement
 
(a) The Company agrees (i) that Section 4(d) of the Remarketing Agreement, dated as of June 25, 1998 (the "Remarketing Agreement"), between the Company and Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. ("Bear Stearns"), as Remarketing Dealer, is hereby superseded by this Agreement and that the "Interest Rate to Maturity" (as such term is defined in the
 
Remarketing Agreement) shall be 7.097% per annum and (ii) to make payment in the amount of $43,587,000 (the "Net Call Price", which is equal to the $72,060,000 Call Price (as defined below) net of the $28,473,000 value of the Treasury Lock (as defined below)) to Bear Stearns by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by Bear Stearns against delivery by Bear Stearns to the Company of $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's Redeemable and Putable Securities
SM
due June 30, 2025 (the "RaPS
SM
") as set forth in Section 3 below. Such payment by the Company and delivery of RaPS by Bear Stearns to the Company in conjunction with consummation of the purchase of the Securities by the several Underwriters in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to constitute termination of the Remarketing Agreement and satisfaction of (x) any obligations of Bear Stearns under the Remarketing Agreement (except any obligations arising under Section 10(d) of the Remarketing Agreement after the date hereof) and (y) the Company's obligation to pay to Bear Stearns the Call Price in the case of such termination. Such payment of the Net Call Price shall be solely for the account of Bear Stearns, and none of the other Underwriters shall have any claims or rights with respect to it.
 
(b) Bear Stearns hereby represents and warrants as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date that it has no knowledge of any "adverse claims" (as defined in Section 8-102 of the Uniform Commercial Code of the State of New York) to the RAPS to be surrendered for exchange by it. The representation and warranty of Bear Stearns set forth in this paragraph shall survive delivery of the Securities to the Underwriters.
 
3. .
Purchase and Sale; Delivery and Payment
 
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company agrees to deliver to Bear Stearns the aggregate principal amount of Securities specified in Schedule III hereto on the Closing Date (as defined below) in exchange for Bear Stearns tendering to the Company $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of RaPS at the purchase price set forth in Schedule I hereto (the "Purchase Price RaPS Component").
 
(b) Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter, and each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at the purchase price set forth in Schedule II hereto (the "Purchase Price Cash Component") the principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in Schedule III hereto.
 
(c) Delivery of and payment for the Securities shall be made on the date and at the time specified in Schedule I and Schedule II hereto or at such time on such later date not more than three Business Days after the foregoing date as the Representatives shall designate, which date and time may be postponed by agreement between the Representatives and the Company or as provided in Section 9 hereof (such date and time of delivery and payment for the Securities being herein called the "Closing Date"). Delivery of the Securities shall be made to the Representatives for the respective
 
accounts of the several Underwriters against payment by the several Underwriters through the Representatives of the purchase price thereof to or upon the order of the Company as provided in this Section 3. Delivery of the Securities shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company unless the Representatives shall otherwise instruct.
 
(d) Payment of the Purchase Price RaPS Component shall be made to the Company by electronic transfer by or on behalf of Bear Stearns of the $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of RaPS to a securities account designated by the Company. Payment of the Purchase Price Cash Component shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company. Payment of the Purchase Price Cash Component and Purchase Price RaPS Component shall each be made against delivery to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of certificates for the Securities to be purchased by them. It is understood that each Underwriter has authorized the Representatives, for its account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Securities which it has agreed to purchase. Bear Stearns, individually and not as representative of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to, except to the extent provided in Section 9) make payment of the purchase price for the Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds have not been received by the Closing Date, but such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from its obligations hereunder.
 
4. . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
 
5. . The Company agrees with each of the several Underwriters that:
Agreements
 
(a) . The Company, subject to Section 5(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430A and/or Rule 434, if and as applicable, and will notify the Representatives immediately of (i) the effectiveness of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424(b) and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424(b) was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file the Prospectus. The Company will make every reasonable effort to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests
 
(b) . The Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b)), any Term Sheet or any amendment, supplement or revision to either the prospectus included in the Registration Statement at the time it became effective or to the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall object.
Filing of Amendments
 
(c) . The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. If applicable, the copies of the Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements
 
(d) . The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the 1933 Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. If applicable, the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses
 
(e) . The Company will comply with the 1933 Act, the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus. If at any time when the Prospectus is required by the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Prospectus in order that the Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the time it is delivered to a purchaser, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of such counsel, at
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 5(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement or the Prospectus comply with such requirements, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
 
(f) . The Company will use its best efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and the jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the Representatives may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect for a period of not less than one year from the date of this Agreement; provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject. In each jurisdiction in which the Securities have been so qualified, the Company will file such statements and reports as may be required by the laws of such jurisdiction to continue such qualification in effect for a period of not less than one year from the date of this Agreement.
Blue Sky Qualifications
 
(g) . The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its security holders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
Earnings Statement
 
(h) . The Company will use the net cash proceeds, if any, received by it from the sale of the Securities in the manner specified in the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds
 
(i) [Intentionally omitted.]
 
(j) . Between the date of this Agreement and the date that is 10 Business Days following the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, directly or indirectly, issue, sell, offer to sell, grant any option for the sale of, or otherwise dispose of, the securities specified in Schedule I and Schedule II hereto.
Restriction on Sale of Securities
 
(k) . The Company, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time periods required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
Reporting Requirements
 
6. . The obligations of the Underwriters to purchase the Securities shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company contained herein as of the Execution Time and as of
Conditions to the Obligations of the Underwriters
 
the Closing Date, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following additional conditions:
 
(a) . The Registration Statement, including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, has become effective under the 1933 Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act or proceedings therefor initiated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters. A prospectus containing information relating to the description of the Securities, the specific method of distribution and similar matters shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b)(l), (2), (3), (4) or (5), as applicable (or any required post-effective amendment providing that such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A), or, if the Company has elected to rely upon Rule 434, a Term Sheet including the Rule 434 Information shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b)(7).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
 
(b) . At the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Date, of M. Patricia Oliver, Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary of the Company, and Chief Corporate Governance Officer and Howard V. Hudson, Jr., Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel of the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request.
Opinion of General Counsel and Assistant General Counsel of the Company
 
(c) . At the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinions, each dated as of the Closing Date, of Arnold & Porter , counsel for the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Exhibit B and Exhibit C hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
LLP
 
(d) . At the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Date, of Sidley Austin Brown & Wood , counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, with respect to the Indenture, the Registration Statement, the Prospectus (together with any supplement thereto) and other related matters as the Representatives may reasonably require. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters
LLP
 
(e) . At the Closing Date, there shall not have been, since the Execution Time or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, and the Representatives shall have received a certificate of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company and of the Corporate Controller of the Company, on behalf of the Company, dated as of the Closing Date, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in Section 1 are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of the Closing Date, (iii) the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Date, and (iv) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been initiated or threatened by the Commission.
Officers' Certificate
 
(f) . At the Execution Time, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ("PWC") a letter, dated such date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives and PWC, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters to the effect set forth in Annex I hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request.
Accountant's Comfort Letter
 
(g) . At the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from PWC a letter, dated as of the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives and PWC, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to subsection (f) of this Section 6, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three Business Days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
 
(h) [Intentionally omitted.]
 
(i) . At the Closing Date, the Securities shall have the ratings accorded by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) of the 1933 Act, if and as specified in Schedule I and Schedule II hereto, and the Company shall have delivered to the Representatives a letter, dated as of such date, from each such rating organization, or other evidence satisfactory to the Representatives, confirming that the Securities have such ratings. Since the Execution Time, there shall not have occurred a downgrading in the rating assigned to the Securities or any of the Company's other securities by any such rating organization, and no such rating organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, with possible negative implications, its rating of the Securities or any of the Company's other securities.
Ratings
 
(j) [Intentionally omitted.]
 
(k) . If the Registration Statement or the offering of the Securities has been filed with the NASD for review, the NASD shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
No Objection
 
(l) . At the Closing Date, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters.
Additional Documents
 
If any condition specified in this Section 6 shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be in all material respects reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, this Agreement and all obligations of the Underwriters hereunder may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to the Closing Date and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 7 and except that Sections 1 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect. Notice of such termination shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing.
 
The documents required to be delivered by this Section 6 shall be delivered at the office of Sidley Austin Brown & Wood , counsel for the Underwriters, at 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019, on the Closing Date.
LLP
 
7. .
Payment of Expenses
 
(a) The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing (if applicable) and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any Agreement among Underwriters, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale and delivery of the Securities, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the Securities to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors or agents, as well as the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its respective counsel, (v) the qualification of the Securities under state securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 5(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation, printing and delivery of the Blue Sky Survey and any Legal Investment Survey, and any amendment thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each preliminary prospectus, any Term Sheet, and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, (vii) the fees charged by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations for the rating of the Securities if applicable, (viii) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and
 
disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the NASD of the terms of the sale of the Securities, and (ix) the fees and expenses of any Underwriter acting in the capacity of a "qualified independent underwriter" (as defined in Rule 2720 of the Conduct Rules of the NASD), if applicable.
 
(b) If the sale of the Securities provided for herein is not consummated because any condition to the obligations of the Underwriters set forth in Section 6 hereof is not satisfied, because of any termination pursuant to Section 10 hereof or because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or comply with any provision hereof other than by reason of a default by any of the Underwriters, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters severally through the Representatives on demand for all out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) that shall have been incurred by them in connection with the proposed purchase and sale of the Securities.
 
(c) In addition, if this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 hereof or because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or comply with any provision hereof, Bear Stearns shall be relieved of all of its obligations under the Remarketing Agreement (except any obligations arising under Section 10(d) of the Remarketing Agreement after the date hereof), including, but not limited to, its obligation to purchase the RaPS on the Remarketing Date (as defined in the Remarketing Agreement), and the Company shall immediately pay to Bear Stearns, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated by Bear Stearns, the Net Call Price of $43,587,000 (which is equal to $72,060,000 (the "Call Price" as defined in the Remarketing Agreement in connection with a termination of the Remarketing Agreement after the Remarketing Dealer elects on the Notification Date (as defined in the Remarketing Agreement) to remarket the RaPS) net of the $28,473,000 value of the "Treasury Lock" entered into between the Company and Bear Stearns on March 30, 2005 (the "Treasury Lock")). If Bear Stearns shall have purchased the $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of RaPS prior to the time of such termination, or subsequent to such termination but prior to the payment of the Net Call Price pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, in addition to making payment of the Net Call Price, the Company shall purchase such aggregate principal amount of RaPS from Bear Stearns, and Bear Stearns shall sell such aggregate principal amount of RaPS to the Company, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the RaPS (the "RaPS Repurchase Price") promptly following such termination. Upon payment by the Company of the Net Call Price and, if applicable, the RaPS Repurchase Price, pursuant to this Section 7(c), the Remarketing Agreement shall be automatically terminated (without the need for further action on the part of either the Company or Bear Stearns). Such payment of the Net Call Price and the RaPS Repurchase Price shall be solely for the account of Bear Stearns, and none of the other Underwriters shall have any claims or rights with respect to it.
 
8. .
Indemnification and Contribution
 
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of either the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or in any amendment thereof, or arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact included in any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; , , that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have.
provided
however
 
(b) Each Underwriter severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signs the Registration Statement, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each Underwriter, but only with reference to written information relating to such Underwriter furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which any Underwriter may otherwise have. The Company acknowledges that the statements set forth in the last paragraph of the cover page regarding delivery of the Securities and, under the heading "Underwriting" or "Plan of Distribution", (i) the list of Underwriters and their respective participation in the sale of the Securities, (ii) the sentences related to concessions and reallowances, (iii) the sentences related to transactions in discretionary accounts and (iv) the paragraph related to stabilization, syndicate covering transactions and penalty bids in any preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the several Underwriters for inclusion in any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus.
 
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to
 
notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); , , that such counsel shall be reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest, (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding.
provided
however
 
(d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 8 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, the Company and the Underwriters severally agree to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending same) (collectively, "Losses") to which the Company and one or more of the Underwriters may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and by the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Securities. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the Company and the Underwriters severally shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations; , , that in no case shall any Underwriter
provided
however
 
(except as may be provided in any agreement among underwriters relating to the offering of the Securities) be responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the Securities purchased by such Underwriter hereunder. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by it, and benefits received by the Underwriters shall be deemed to be equal to the total underwriting discounts and commissions, in each case as set forth on the cover page of the Prospectus. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or any alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the Company on the one hand or the Underwriters on the other, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 8, each person who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of either the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act and each director, officer, employee, agent and partner of an Underwriter shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
 
9. . If any one or more Underwriters shall fail to purchase and pay for any of the Securities agreed to be purchased by such Underwriter or Underwriters hereunder and such failure to purchase shall constitute a default in the performance of its or their obligations under this Agreement, the remaining Underwriters shall be obligated severally to take up and pay for (in the respective proportions which the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their names in Schedule III hereto bears to the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth opposite the names of all the remaining Underwriters) the Securities which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase; , , that in the event that the aggregate principal amount of Securities which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase shall exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule III hereto, the remaining Underwriters shall have the right to purchase all, but shall not be under any obligation to purchase any, of the Securities, and if such nondefaulting Underwriters do not purchase all the Securities, this Agreement will terminate without liability to any nondefaulting Underwriter or the Company. In the event of a default by any Underwriter as set forth in this Section 9, the Closing Date shall be postponed for such period, not exceeding five Business Days, as the Representatives shall determine in order that the required changes in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter of its liability, if any, to the Company and any nondefaulting Underwriter for damages occasioned by its default hereunder.
Default by an Underwriter
provided
however
 
10. .
Termination
 
(a) This Agreement shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice given to the Company prior to delivery of and payment for the Securities, if at any time prior to such time (i) there has been, since the time of execution of this Underwriting Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, (ii) trading in the Company's common stock shall have been suspended by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited or minimum prices shall have been established on such Exchange, (iii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared by Federal, New York State or State of North Carolina authorities, (iv) there shall have occurred a material disruption in settlement and clearing services, or (v) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war, or other calamity or crisis the effect of which on financial markets is such as to make it, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated by the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement subsequent to the date hereof).
 
(b) If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section 10, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except (i) as provided in Sections 7 and 9 hereof, (ii) the Company shall immediately pay to Bear Stearns, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated by Bear Stearns, the Net Call Price (as defined in Section 7(c) above), and (iii) Bear Stearns shall be relieved of all of its obligations under the Remarketing Agreement (except any obligations arising under Section 10(d) of the Remarketing Agreement after the date hereof), including, but not limited to, its obligation to purchase the RaPS on the Remarketing Date, and provided further that Sections 7, 8, 11 and 14 hereof shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect. If Bear Stearns shall have purchased the $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of RaPS prior to the time of such termination, or subsequent to such termination but prior to the payment of the Net Call Price pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, in addition to making payment of the Net Call Price, the Company shall purchase such aggregate principal amount of RaPS from Bear Stearns, and Bear Stearns shall sell such aggregate principal amount of RaPS to the Company, at a purchase price equal to the RaPS Repurchase Price promptly following such termination. Upon payment by the Company of the Net Call Price and, if applicable, the RaPS Repurchase Price, pursuant to this Section 10(b), the Remarketing Agreement shall be automatically terminated (without the need for further action on the part of either the Company or Bear Stearns). Such payment of the Net Call Price and the RaPS Repurchase Price shall be solely for the account of Bear Stearns, and none of the other Underwriters shall have any claims or rights with respect to it.
 
11. . The respective agreements, representations, warranties, indemnities and other statements of the Company or its officers and
Representations and Indemnities to Survive
 
of the Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or the Company or any of the officers, directors, employees, agents, partners or controlling persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. The provisions of Sections 7 and 8 hereof shall survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement.
 
12. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and, if sent to the Representatives, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., 383 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10179, attention of Joel S. Schlesinger, Senior Managing Director, High Grade Capital Markets department, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to 150 Stratford Road, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27104, attention of Scott E. Reed, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer prior to July 1, 2005, and thereafter attention of Christopher L. Henson, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Notices
 
13. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers, directors, employees, agents, partners and controlling persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
 
14. . This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed within the State of New York.
Applicable Law
 
15. . This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
16. . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
 
17. . The terms which follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated.
Definitions
 
"1933 Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
"1933 Act Regulations" shall mean the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1933 Act.
 
"1934 Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
"1934 Act Regulations" shall mean the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1934 Act.
 
"1939 Act" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
 
"1939 Act Regulations" shall mean the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1939 Act.
 
"Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in New York City.
 
"Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
"EDGAR" shall mean the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system of the Commission.
 
"Effective Date" shall mean each date and time that the Registration Statement, any post-effective amendment or amendments thereto and any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement became or become effective.
 
"Execution Time" shall mean the date and time that this Agreement is executed and delivered by the parties hereto.
 
"NASD" shall mean the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
 
"Regulation S-T" and "Regulation S-K" refer to such regulations under the 1933 Act Regulations.
 
"Rule 415", "Rule 424", "Rule 430A", "Rule 434", "Rule 436" and "Rule 462" refer to such rules under the 1933 Act.
 
"Rule 430A Information" shall mean information with respect to the Securities and the offering thereof permitted to be omitted from the Registration Statement when it becomes effective pursuant to Rule 430A.
 
"Rule 434 Information" shall mean information with respect to the Securities and the offering thereof deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement when it becomes effective pursuant to Rule 434(d).
 
"Rule 462(b) Registration Statement" shall mean a registration statement and any amendments thereto filed pursuant to Rule 462(b) relating to the offering covered by the registration statement referred to in the second paragraph of this Agreement.
 
18. . The Company hereby represents, warrants and agrees to and with the Underwriters severally, as of the Closing Date, that the relationship between itself and each of the Underwriters is an arms-length commercial relationship and that no fiduciary duty or any other obligation arising out of a relationship of higher trust exists between the Company and any of the Underwriters. For the avoidance of doubt, the relationship between the Representatives and each of the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement is an arms-length commercial relationship and no fiduciary duty or any other obligation arising out of a relationship of higher trust exists between the Representatives and any of the Underwriters.
Certain Matters
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Company and the several Underwriters.
 
 
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date specified in Schedule I and Schedule II hereto.
 
 
For themselves and the other several Underwriters, if any, named in Schedule III to the foregoing Agreement.
 
 
 
Underwriting Agreement dated June 23, 2005, as amended June 30, 2005
 
Registration Statement No. 333-105129
 
Representatives:
 
Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc.
383 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10179
 
Title, Purchase Price and Description of Securities:
 
 
 
 
Underwriting Agreement dated June 23, 2005, as amended June 30, 2005
 
Registration Statement No. 333-105129
 
Representatives:
 
Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc.
383 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10179
 
Title, Purchase Price and Description of Securities:
 
 
 


