FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20050817170442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events
 
On August 11, 2005, BB&T Corporation (the "Company") and BB&T Capital Trust I (the "Trust") entered into an underwriting agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1, with respect to the Trust's issuance and sale (the "Capital Securities Offering") of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.85% Capital Securities due 2035 (the "Capital Securities"). The Capital Securities to be sold in the Capital Securities Offering were registered by the Company and the Trust under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File nos. 333-126592 and 333-126592-01) (the "Registration Statement"). In connection with the Capital Securities Offering, the opinion of M. Patricia Oliver, Exeuctive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Corporate Governance Officer of the Company, and the tax opinion of Womble Carlyle Sandridge & Rice, PLLC, are each incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: August 17, 2005

       
Exhibit 1.1
Richmond, Virginia August 11, 2005
To the Representatives   named in Schedule I hereto   of the Underwriters named   in Schedule II hereto
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          BB&T Capital Trust I (the "Trust"), a statutory trust created under the Statutory Trust Act (the "Delaware Act") of the State of Delaware (Chapter 38, Part V, Title 12 of the Delaware Code, 12 Del. C. Sections 3801 et seq.) and BB&T Corporation, a North Carolina corporation (the "Company" and, together with the Trust, the "Offerors"), confirm their agreement (the "Agreement") with the Representatives named in Schedule I hereto and each of the other Underwriters named in Schedule II hereto (collectively, including the Representatives, the "Underwriters"), with respect to the issue and sale by the Trust and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the respective number set forth opposite their names in Schedule II of the 500,000 5.85% Capital Securities (liquidation amount of $1,000 per security) of the Trust (the "Capital Securities"). The terms of the Capital Securities are specified in Schedule I hereto. The Capital Securities will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company (the "Capital Securities Guarantee"), to the extent described in the Prospectus (as defined below), with respect to distributions and payments upon liquidation, redemption and otherwise pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement (the "Guarantee Agreement"), to be dated as of August 18, 2005, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association, as Trustee (the "Guarantee Trustee"). The Capital Securities issued in book-entry form will be issued to Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), pursuant to a letter of representations, to be dated on or prior to a Closing Date (as defined in Section 3 herein) (the "DTC Agreement"), among the Trust and DTC.
          The entire proceeds from the sale of the Capital Securities will be combined with the entire proceeds from the sale by the Trust to the Company of its common securities (the "Common Securities"), and will be used by the Trust to purchase $515,464,000 of 5.85% Junior Subordinated Debentures, due August 18, 2035 (the "Junior Subordinated Debentures") issued by the Company. The Capital Securities and the Common Securities will be issued pursuant to the Trust Agreement, dated as of June 26, 2001, as amended and restated by the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of the Trust, to be dated as of August 18, 2005 (the "Trust Agreement"), among the Company, as Depositor, M. Patricia Oliver and Christopher L. Henson, as administrative trustees (the "Administrative Trustees"), U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association ("U.S. Bank"), as property trustee (the "Property Trustee"), and Wilmington Trust Company, as Delaware trustee (the "Delaware Trustee" and, together with the Property Trustee, the Administrative Trustees, and the Indenture Trustee, as defined below, the "Trustees"). The Junior Subordinated Debentures will be issued pursuant to a Junior Subordinated Indenture to be dated as of August 18, 2005, to be supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 18, 2005 (collectively, the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank, as trustee (the "Indenture Trustee").
          The Capital Securities, the Capital Securities Guarantee and the Junior Subordinated Debentures may be collectively referred to herein as the "Securities." The Indenture, the Trust Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement, the DTC Agreement and this Agreement may be referred to herein collectively as the "Operative Documents." The term "Underwriters" as used herein shall be deemed to mean the several persons, firms or corporations (including the Representatives hereinafter mentioned) named in Schedule II hereto, and the term "Representatives" as used herein shall be deemed to mean the Representatives named in Schedule I hereto. If there shall be only one person, firm or corporation named in Schedule I hereto, the term "Representatives" as used herein shall mean that person, firm or corporation. If there shall be only one person, firm or corporation named in Schedule II hereto, the term "Underwriters" as used herein shall mean that person, firm or corporation. All obligations of the Underwriters hereunder are several and not joint. Unless otherwise stated, any action under or in respect of this Agreement taken by the Representatives will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
          The Offerors understand that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of the Capital Securities (as guaranteed by the Capital Securities Guarantee) on the terms and in the manner set forth herein and agree that the Underwriters may resell, subject to the conditions set forth herein, all or a portion of the Capital Securities.
          The Offerors have jointly filed with the Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-126592 and 333-126592-01) and pre-effective amendment no. 1 thereto for the registration of the Securities under the 1933 Act, and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415, and the Company has filed such post-effective amendments thereto as may be required prior to the execution of this Agreement. Such registration statement (as so amended, if applicable) has been declared effective by the Commission and the Indenture has been duly qualified under the 1939 Act. Such registration statement (as so amended, if applicable), including the Rule 430A Information, if any, or Rule 434 Information, is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; and the final prospectus and the prospectus supplement relating to the offering of the Securities, in the form first furnished to the Underwriters by the Company for use in connection with the offering of the Securities, are collectively referred to herein as the "Prospectus"; provided, however, that all references to the "Registration Statement" and the "Prospectus" shall be deemed to include all documents incorporated therein by reference pursuant to the 1934 Act, prior to the execution of this Agreement; provided, further, that if the Company files a Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, then, after such filing, all references to "Registration Statement" shall be deemed to include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement; and provided, further, that if the Company elects to rely upon Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations, then all references to "Prospectus" shall be deemed to include the final or preliminary prospectus and the applicable term sheet or abbreviated term sheet (the "Term Sheet"), as the case may be, in the form first furnished to the Underwriters by the Company in reliance upon Rule 434 of the 1933 Act Regulations, and all references in this Agreement to the date of the Prospectus shall mean the date of the Term Sheet. A "preliminary prospectus" shall be deemed to refer to any prospectus used before the registration statement became effective and any prospectus that omitted, as applicable, the Rule 430A Information, the Rule 434 Information or other information to be included upon pricing in a form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations, that was used after such effectiveness and prior to the execution and delivery of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, Prospectus, Term Sheet or preliminary prospectus or to any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR.
          All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, as the case may be; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the 1934 Act which is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, as the case may be. Certain terms used in this Agreement are defined in Section 17 hereof.
                       (1)      . The Offerors represent and warrant to, and agree with, each Underwriter, as of the date hereof and as of any Closing Date (as defined below) (in each case, a "Representation Date") as set forth below in this Section 1.
Representations and Warranties
              Any certificate signed by any officer of the Offerors or any Subsidiary and delivered to the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the offering of the Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Offerors, as to matters covered thereby, to each Underwriter on the date of such certificate and, unless subsequently amended or supplemented, at each Representation Date subsequent thereto.
                      (2)      . Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Trust agrees to sell to each Underwriter, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Trust, at a price of $1,000 per Capital Security, at a place and time hereinafter specified, the number of Initial Capital Securities set forth in Schedule II opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional Initial Capital Securities which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 9 hereof.
Purchase and Sale
                       The Underwriters agree to make a public offering of their respective Capital Securities specified in Schedule I hereto at the initial public offering price specified above. It is understood that after such initial offering the several Underwriters reserve the right to vary the offering price and further reserve the right to withdraw, cancel or modify such offering.
                        (3)      . Delivery of and payment for the Securities shall be made on the date and at the time specified in Schedule I hereto or at such time on such later date not more than three Business Days after the foregoing date as the Representatives shall designate, which date and time may be postponed by agreement between the Representatives and the Offerors or as provided in Section 9 hereof (such date and time of delivery and payment for the Securities being herein called the "Closing Date"). Delivery of the Securities shall be made to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the several Underwriters against payment by the several Underwriters through the Representatives of the purchase price thereof to or upon the order of the Offerors by wire transfer payable in same-day funds to an account specified by the Offerors. Delivery of the Securities shall be made through the facilities of DTC unless the Representatives shall otherwise instruct.
Delivery and Payment
                As compensation to the Underwriters for their commitments hereunder and in view of the fact that the proceeds of the sale of the Capital Securities will be used to purchase Junior Subordinated Debentures of the Company (which purchase was arranged by the Underwriters), the Company hereby agrees to pay on any Closing Date to the Representatives by wire transfer in immediately available funds, for the accounts of the several Underwriters, $10.00 per Capital Security to be delivered hereunder on that Closing Date.
                       (4)      . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Capital Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
                       (5)      . The Offerors agree with each of the several Underwriters that:
Agreements
                       (6)      . The obligations of the Underwriters to purchase the Capital Securities shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Offerors contained herein as of the Execution Time and as of the Closing Date, to the accuracy of the statements of the Offerors made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Offerors of their covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of the Underwriters
               If any condition specified in this Section 6 shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be, in all material respects, reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, this Agreement and all obligations of the Underwriters hereunder may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Offerors at any time at or prior to the Closing Date and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 7 and except that Sections 1 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect. Notice of such termination shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing.
               The documents required to be delivered by this Section 6 shall be delivered at the office of Troutman Sanders LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, at Troutman Sanders Building, 1001 Haxall Point, Richmond, Virginia 23219, on the Closing Date.
                       (7)      .
Payment of Expenses
                       (8)      .
Indemnification and Contribution
                            (9) . If any one or more Underwriters shall fail to purchase and pay for any of the Securities agreed to be purchased by such Underwriter or Underwriters hereunder and such failure to purchase shall constitute a default in the performance of its or their obligations under this Agreement, the remaining Underwriters shall be obligated severally to take up and pay for (in the respective proportions which the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their names in Schedule II hereto bears to the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth opposite the names of all the remaining Underwriters) the Securities which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase; , , that in the event that the aggregate principal amount of Securities which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase shall exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule II hereto, the remaining Underwriters shall have the right to purchase all, but shall not be under any obligation to purchase any, of the Securities, and if such nondefaulting Underwriters do not purchase all the Securities, this Agreement will terminate without liability to any nondefaulting Underwriter or the Offerors. In the event of a default by any Underwriter as set forth in this Section 9, the Closing Date shall be postponed for such period, not exceeding five Business Days, as the Representatives shall determine in order that the required changes in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter of its liability, if any, to the Offerors and any nondefaulting Underwriter for damages occasioned by its default hereunder.
Default by an Underwriter
provided
however
                       (10)      . This Agreement shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice given to the Offerors prior to delivery of and payment for the Securities, if at any time prior to such time (i) there has been, since the time of execution of this Underwriting Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of any Offerors and their Subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, (ii) trading in the Company's common stock shall have been suspended by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited or minimum prices shall have been established on such Exchange, (iii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared by Federal, New York State or State of North Carolina authorities, (iv) there shall have occurred a material disruption in settlement and clearing services, or (v) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war, or other calamity or crisis, the effect of which on financial markets is such as to make it, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated by the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement subsequent to the date hereof).
Termination
                       (11)      . The respective agreements, representations, warranties and indemnities of the Offerors or their officers and of the Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or the Offerors or any of the officers, directors, employees, agents, partners or controlling persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. The provisions of Sections 7 and 8 hereof shall survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive
                       (12)      . All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and, if sent to the Representatives, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to BB&T Capital Markets, a division of Scott & Stringfellow, Inc., 909 East Main Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219, attention of William E. Hardy, or, if sent to the Company or the Trust, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to 200 West Second Street, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27101, attention of M. Patricia Oliver, Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Corporate Governance Officer.
Notices
                       (13)      . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers, directors, employees, agents, partners and controlling persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
                       (14)      . This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed within the State of New York. The Offerors and the Underwriters acknowledge and agree that in connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated by this Agreement, the Offerors and the Underwriters have an arms-length business relationship that creates no fiduciary duty on the part of any party and each expressly disclaims any fiduciary relationship.
Applicable Law; Fiduciary Duty
                       (15)      . This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
                       (16)      . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
                       (17)      . The terms which follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated.
Definitions
               If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Offerors and the several Underwriters.
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date specified in Schedule I hereto.
BB&T CAPITAL MARKETS, a division of Scott & Stringfellow, Inc.
By:          Name: William E. Hardy        Title: Senior Managing Director
/s/ William E. Hardy              
       For itself and the other        several Underwriters, if any,        named in Schedule II to the        foregoing Agreement.
:
General
Underwriting Agreement dated August 11, 2005
Registration Statement Nos. 333-126592 and 333-126592-01
Representative:
     BB&T Capital Markets,      a division of Scott & Stringfellow, Inc.      909 East Main Street      Richmond, Virginia 23219
:
Capital Securities
:
Junior Subordinated Debentures

Exhibit 5.1
BB&T Corporation 200 West Second Street Winston-Salem, NC 27101
          Re: Registration Statement on Form S-3
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          I am Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Corporate Governance Officer of BB&T Corporation, a financial holding company that is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and is organized under the laws of the State of North Carolina (the "Company"). My opinion has been requested with respect to certain matters in connection with the registration by the Company, under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), of the offer and sale by the Company from time to time, pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act, of (i) unsecured debt securities, in one or more series, consisting of notes, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness (other than Junior Subordinated Debt Securities as described below) ("Debt Securities"); (ii) shares of common stock, par value $5.00 per share, of the Company ("Common Stock"); (iii) shares of preferred stock, par value $5.00 per share, of the Company in one or more series ("Preferred Stock"); depositary shares representing fractional interests in Preferred Stock ("Depositary Shares"); (v) contracts for the purchase of Common Stock, Preferred Stock or Depositary Shares ("Stock Purchase Contracts") or units consisting of a Stock Purchase Contract and a beneficial interest in another security ("Stock Purchase Units"); (vi) warrants representing rights to purchase Debt Securities, Common Stock or Preferred Stock ("Warrants"); (vii) units consisting of any combination of Debt Securities, Common Stock, Preferred Stock, Depositary Shares and Warrants ("Units"); and (viii) preferred securities of BB&T Capital Trust I ("Trust Preferred Securities"), the Company's Delaware statutory trust subsidiary (the "Trust"), and, in connection therewith, junior unsecured subordinated debt securities of the Company to be issued to the Trust ("Junior Subordinated Debt Securities") and related guarantees by the Company of certain payments by the Trust ("Guarantees"). The securities will be offered in amounts, at prices and on terms to be determined in light of market conditions at the time of sale and to be set forth in supplements to the prospectus contained in the Company's and the Trust's registration statement on Form S-3, as it may be amended from time to time (the "Registration Statement"), to which this opinion is an exhibit. The aggregate initial offering price of the Debt Securities, Common Stock, Preferred Stock, Depositary Shares, Stock Purchase Contracts, Stock Purchase Units, Warrants and Units offered by the Company and Trust Preferred Securities offered by the Trust under the Registration Statement will not exceed $2,500,000,000.
BB&T Corporation August 11, 2005 Page 2
          I have reviewed originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to my satisfaction, of (i) the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Company; (ii) the Senior Indenture dated as of May 24, 1996 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association as successor in interest to State Street Bank and Trust Company ("Senior Debt Indenture") relating to senior debt securities of the Company; (iii) the Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 24, 1996 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association as successor in interest to State Street Bank and Trust Company (the "Subordinated Debt Indenture") relating to subordinated debt securities of the Company; (iv) the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 23, 2003 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee; (v) the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 24, 2004 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (collectively with the Senior Debt Indenture, the Subordinated Debt Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture, the "Indentures"); (vi) the form of Junior Subordinated Indenture to be entered into between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association providing for the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities (the "Junior Subordinated Indenture"); (vii) the form of Guarantee Agreement for the Trust to be entered into between the Company, as guarantor, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, providing for the Guarantees (the "Guarantee Agreement"); and (viii) such other certificates, instruments and documents as I have considered appropriate for purposes of the opinions hereafter expressed. In rendering this opinion, I have relied upon certificates of public officials and officers of the Company with respect to the accuracy of the factual matters contained in such certificates.
          In connection with such review, I have assumed with your permission that (i) the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (including post-effective amendments) have become effective; (ii) a prospectus supplement and, if necessary, a pricing supplement, will have been prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission describing any securities offered thereby; (iii) all securities will be issued and sold in the manner stated in the Registration Statement and the applicable prospectus supplement and, if necessary, the applicable pricing supplement; (iv) each Indenture was duly executed and delivered by U.S. Bank National Association or State Street Bank and Trust Company as predecessor to U.S. Bank National Association; (v) at the time of any offering or sale of any shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock, the Company will have such number of shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock, as set forth in such offering or sale, authorized and available for issuance; (vi) a definitive purchase, underwriting or similar agreement with respect to any securities offered will have been duly authorized and validly executed and delivered by the Company and the other parties thereto; (vii) with respect to the issuance of any Trust Preferred Securities, the Junior Subordinated Indenture and the Guarantee Agreement will each have been duly authorized and validly executed and delivered by the Company and the other parties thereto; (viii) securities issuable upon conversion, exchange or exercise of any securities being offered will have been duly authorized, established (if appropriate) and reserved for issuance upon such conversion, exchange or exercise (if appropriate); (ix) the genuineness of all signatures and the legal competence of all signatories; (x) the authenticity of all documents submitted to me as certified or photo static copies; and (xi) the proper issuance and accuracy of certificates of public officials and officers and agents of the Company.
BB&T Corporation August 11, 2005 Page 3
          This opinion is limited to the laws of the State of North Carolina, excluding local laws of the State of North Carolina (i.e., the statutes and ordinances, the administrative decisions and the rules and regulations of counties, towns, municipalities and special political subdivisions of, or authorities or quasi-governmental bodies constituted under the laws of, the State of North Carolina and judicial decisions to the extent they deal with any of the foregoing) and the laws of the United States of America that are, in my experience, normally applicable to the transactions of the type provided for in the Registration Statement, and I am expressing no opinion as to the effect of the laws of any other jurisdiction. To the extent necessary, I have relied on the opinions of members of the Company's legal department as to certain matters, including, but not limited to, matters that relate to North Carolina law.
          Based upon and subject to the foregoing and the qualifications set forth below, I am of the opinion that:
BB&T Corporation August 11, 2005 Page 4
BB&T Corporation August 11, 2005 Page 5
             My opinions expressed herein are subject to the following:
BB&T Corporation August 11, 2005 Page 6
          This opinion is delivered as of the date hereof, and I undertake no obligation to advise you of any changes in applicable law or any other matters that may come to my attention after the date hereof.
          I hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the use of my name in the prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement under the caption "Experts." In giving this consent, I do not admit that I am within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.

Exhibit 8.1
August 11, 2005
BB&T Corporation 200 West Second Street Winston-Salem, NC 27101
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          We have acted as counsel to BB&T Corporation ("BB&T"), a North Carolina corporation, in connection with the filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), by BB&T and BB&T Capital Trust I, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), of a registration statement on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-126592 and 333-126592-01) (the "Registration Statement") registering the offer and sale from time to time of certain securities, including the offer and sale by the Trust, of trust preferred securities (the "Capital Securities"). The Capital Securities will be offered for sale pursuant to a prospectus dated August 11, 2005, as supplemented by the prospectus supplement dated August 11, 2005 (together, the "Prospectus").
          We hereby confirm that, although the discussion set forth in the Prospectus under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations" does not purport to discuss all possible United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Capital Securities, in our opinion, such discussion constitutes, in all material respects, a fair and accurate summary of the material United States federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the Capital Securities, based upon current law. It is possible that contrary positions may be taken by the Internal Revenue Service and that a court may agree with such contrary positions.
          We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to a current report on Form 8-K of BB&T (which shall be deemed incorporated by reference into the Prospectus constituting part of the Registration Statement) and to the use of our name in the Prospectus under the caption "Legal Matters." In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.
          
THIS OPINION AND THE MATERIAL SET FORTH IN THE PROSPECTUS TO WHICH IT RELATES UNDER THE HEADING "CERTAIN U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS" HAS NOT BEEN PREPARED AND IS NOT INTENDED TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, BY ANY TAXPAYER FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING PENALTIES THAT MAY BE IMPOSED ON THE TAXPAYER UNDER FEDERAL TAX LAW. WE UNDERSTAND THAT THIS OPINION AND SUCH MATERIAL WILL BE USED TO SUPPORT THE PROMOTION OR MARKETING OF THE TRANSACTIONS DISCUSSED IN THE PROSPECTUS AND ANY TAXPAYER WHO READS THIS OPINION AND SUCH MATERIAL SHOULD SEEK INDEPENDENT ADVICE BASED ON THE TAXPAYER'S PARTICULAR CIRCUMSTANCES FROM AN INDEPENDENT TAX ADVISOR.


