FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20051215075721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 8.01   Other Events
           The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to announce the signing of a definitive merger agreement for BB&T Corporation to acquire Main Street Banks, Inc. of Atlanta, Georgia, and to furnish the related analyst presentation materials.
ITEM 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:       December 15, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
Dec. 15, 2005
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
BB&T to acquire Main Street Banks Inc. of metro Atlanta
          WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. - BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) today said it plans to buy Main Street Banks Inc. (NASDAQ: MSBK) of Atlanta in a $622.7 million stock swap that would strengthen its presence in some of the most economically vibrant communities in the country.
          The merger would bump BB&T from sixth to fifth in deposit market share in both metropolitan Atlanta and Georgia. It would mark the first bank acquisition for BB&T since it acquired St. Petersburg, Fla.-based Republic Bancshares in April 2004.
          With $2.5 billion in assets, Main Street Banks is the largest community bank in metro Atlanta. It operates 24 full-service banking centers and five insurance offices in the Atlanta and Athens, Ga., metropolitan statistical areas.
          The transaction, approved by the directors of both companies, is valued at $28.50 per Main Street share based on BB&T's closing price Wednesday of $43.17. The exchange ratio will be fixed at 0.6602 of a share of BB&T stock for each share of Main Street stock. The merger, which is subject to regulatory and shareholder approval, is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2006. Main Street shareholders will receive a 64.5 percent increase in dividend income, once the transaction is complete.
          "Our acquisition strategy remains the same  to pursue very high quality banks and thrifts that improve our financial performance and franchise value," said BB&T Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Allison. "So we could not be more pleased with the prospects of a merger with Main Street Banks, one of the best community banking franchises in the Southeast.
          "This merger will enhance our ongoing commitment to organic growth by adding state-of-the art, strategically located branches in some of the fastest growing and economically attractive communities you'll find anywhere."
          Main Street operates four branches in Fulton County, three in Cobb County, three in Newton County, three in Rockdale County, two in Forsyth County, two in Dekalb County, two in Gwinnett County, two in Walton County, one in Barrow County and two in metro Athens, Ga., located east of greater Atlanta.
          The Atlanta metropolitan statistical area, the second largest in the Southeast, is home to nearly five million people. The metro area's population has increased 34 percent since 1994. Bank deposits in this market are approximately $95 billion.
          With an estimated 2005 median household income of $76,878, Atlanta is ranked as the second wealthiest metro area in the the Southeast and is projected to pass Washington, D.C., in the next five years. It was ranked as the nation's "Best City for Doing Business" by Inc. magazine and is the No. 3 city in the country for most Fortune 500 company headquarters with 13.
          Main Street is ranked No. 1 in deposit market share for community banks in four metro Atlanta counties. It also has a strong presence in Athens, named the top small metro area for relocating families by the Worldwide Employee Relocation Council.
          "Like BB&T, Main Street is known for highly personal service, top-tier profitability, excellent growth and solid credit quality," said Sam Hay, president and chief executive officer of Main Street Banks. "So this is a great fit.
          "We bring market area demographics that are among the best in the country. And in BB&T we'll have a partner with a broad array of financial products and services that we'll now be able to offer our existing client base. We've been largely focused on real estate lending and developing small business relationships, areas where we've seen great success. Now we'll have truly unlimited opportunites in arenas such as commercial and industrial lending, brokerage and asset management."
          Main Street customers will be introduced to BB&T's strong branch-based sales culture and its broad product and services line, including insurance, mutual funds, trust, online banking, annuities, investment banking, retail brokerage, treasury services, leasing and international banking.
          Main Street was founded as The Bank of Covington in 1901. It changed its name to Main Street Banks in 1996. In May 2000, it entered into a merger of equals with Kennesaw, Ga.-based First Sterling Banks Inc., creating a $900 million bank with 21 branches. First Sterling was the surviving entity in the merger of equals and adopted Main Street's name. Since then, Main Street has acquired three Atlanta-based banks (the last in May 2003) and three independent insurance agencies.
          Robert Fowler, chairman of the executive committee of the Main Street Banks board and a former chairman and chief executive officer of Main Street Banks, will be offered a position on the Branch Banking and Trust Company board of directors for BB&T's lead bank subsidiary. Edward Milligan, chairman and former chief executive officer of Main Street Banks, will be offered a seat on BB&T's Georgia state board. Sam Hay will become a BB&T executive vice president.
          The remaining members of the Main Street board of directors will be asked to serve on BB&T's local advisory boards for metro Atlanta.
          The merger would increase BB&T's deposits in Georgia to nearly $7 billion. BB&T expects a 35 percent cost savings in the first year after systems conversion.
          BB&T bought 17 banks and thrifts from 2000 to 2004 before announcing a moratorium on bank acquisitions to refocus on organic revenue growth and expense control.
          Winston-Salem-based BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries offer full-service commercial and retail banking and additional financial services such as insurance, investments, retail brokerage, corporate finance, consumer finance, treasury services, international banking, leasing and trust.
          BB&T operates more than 1,400 financial centers in the Carolinas, Virginia, Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Indiana and Washington, D.C.
          With $107.1 billion in assets, BB&T Corp. is the nation's ninth largest financial holding company. More information about BB&T Corp. is available at www.BBandT.com.
          
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections and estimates.
          
Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a summary of important factors that could affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this press release.
          
BB&T's news releases are available at no charge through PR Newswire's Company News On-Call facsimile service. For a menu of BB&T's news releases or to retrieve a specific release call 1-800-758-5804, extension 809325.
          
The foregoing may be deemed to be offering materials of BB&T Corporation in connection with BB&T's proposed acquisition of Main Street Banks Inc., on the terms and subject to the conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated Dec, 14, 2005, between BB&T and Main Street. This disclosure is being made in connection with Regulation of Takeovers and Security Holder Communications (Release Nos. 33-7760 and 34-42055) adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
          
BB&T and Main Street shareholders and other investors are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S-4, which BB&T will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger because it will contain important information about BB&T, Main Street, the merger, the persons soliciting proxies in the merger and their interests in the merger and related matters.
          
The respective directors and executive officers of BB&T and Main Street and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies with respect to the proposed transaction. Information regarding BB&T's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC by BB&T on March 25, 2005, and information regarding Main Street's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC by Main Street on March 22, 2005. Other information regarding the participants in the solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise,will be contained in the proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
          
The press relese does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, shares of BB&T common stock, or the solicitation of any proxies from Main Street's shareholders.
          
After it is filed with the SEC, the joint proxy statement/prospectus will be available for free, both on the SEC web site (http://www.sec.gov) and from BB&T and Main Street as follows: Alan W. Greer, Shareholder Reporting, BB&T Corporation, P.O. Box 1290, Winston-Salem, NC 27102. Telephone: (336) 733-3021. David W. Brooks II, Chief Financial Officer, Main Street Banks, Inc., 3500 Lenox Road, Atlanta, GA 30326. Telephone: (770) 786-3441.
          
In addition to the proposed registration statement and joint proxy statement/prospectus, BB&T and Main Street file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information filed by either company at the SEC's public reference rooms at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC's other public reference rooms in New York and Chicago.
          
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. BB&T and Main Street filings with the SEC are also available to the public from commercial document-retrieval services and on the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov.

Exhibit 99.2
BB&T has made forward-looking statements in the accompanying analyst presentation materials that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of the management of BB&T, and on the information available to management at the time the analyst presentation materials were prepared. In particular, the analyst materials in this report include statements regarding estimated earnings per share of BB&T on a stand alone basis, expected cost savings from the merger, estimated merger or restructuring charges, estimated increases in Main Street Banks, Inc.s fee income ratio and net interest margin, the anticipated accretive effect of the merger, and BB&T's anticipated performance in future periods. With respect to estimated cost savings and merger or restructuring charges, BB&T has made assumptions about, among other things, the extent of operational overlap between BB&T and Main Street Banks, Inc., the amount of general and administrative expense consolidation, costs relating to converting Main Street Banks, Inc.s bank operations and data processing to BB&T's systems, the size of anticipated reductions in fixed labor costs, the amount of severance expenses, the extent of the charges that may be necessary to align the companies' respective accounting policies, and the cost related to the merger. The realization of cost savings and the amount of merger or restructuring charges are subject to the risk that the foregoing assumptions are inaccurate.
Any statements in the accompanying exhibit regarding the anticipated accretive effect of the merger and BB&T's anticipated performance in future periods are subject to risks relating to, among other things, the following possibilities: (1) expected cost savings from this merger or other previously announced mergers may not be fully realized or realized within the expected time frame; (2) deposit attrition, customer loss or revenue loss following proposed mergers may be greater than expected; (3) competitive pressure among depository and other financial institutions may increase significantly; (4) costs or difficulties related to the integration of the businesses of BB&T and its merger partners, including Main Street Banks, Inc., may be greater than expected; (5) changes in the interest rate environment may reduce margins; (6) general economic or business conditions, either nationally or regionally, may be less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality, or a reduced demand for credit; (7) legislative or regulatory changes, including changes in accounting standards, may adversely affect the businesses in which BB&T and Main Street Banks, Inc. are engaged; (8) adverse changes may occur in the securities markets; and (9) competitors of BB&T and Main Street Banks, Inc. may have greater financial resources and develop products that enable such competitors to compete more successfully than BB&T and Main Street Banks, Inc.
BB&T believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. Such statements are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The future results and shareholder value of BB&T following completion of the merger may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results and values are beyond management's ability to control or predict.
Based on closing prices as of 12/14/05
*
  *Based on BB&T's closing stock price of $43.17 as of 12/14/2005.
  *Based on MSBK's closing stock price of $28.73 as of 12/14/2005. **BB&T shares based on MSBK shares outstanding adjusted for stock options using the treasury method. BB&T expects to repurchase approximately 6.6% of the shares in the transaction.
*Source for Acquisition Comparables: SNL Financial
*Source for Acquisition Comparables: SNL Financial
*Source for Acquisition Comparables: SNL Financial
*BB&T's ratios are calculated on an operating basis
Criteria are listed in order of importance. There are sometimes trade-offs among criteria. BB&T is primarily concerned with cash basis measures for each of the criterion above.
*2006 results are based on an assumed April 1, 2006 closing.
Main Street Banks, Inc.
Financial Summary
Main Street Banks, Inc.
Financial Summary
Main Street Banks, Inc.
Financial Summary
Return on Assets - Earnings (excluding merger-related and nonrecurring charges or credits) for the period as a percentage of average assets for the period.
Return on Equity - Earnings (excluding merger-related and nonrecurring charges or credits) for the period as a percentage of average common equity for the period.
Cash Basis Performance Results and Ratios - These calculations exclude the effect of intangible assets, amortization of intangibles, net amortization of purchase accounting mark-to-market adjustments, merger-related charges, and nonrecurring charges.
Efficiency Ratio - Noninterest expense as a percentage of the sum of net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis ("FTE") and noninterest income (excludes securities gains/losses, foreclosed property expense, provisions for or recaptures of the impairment of mortgage servicing rights, gains or losses on mortgage servicing rights-related derivatives, merger-related charges or credits, and nonrecurring items).
Tier 1 Capital - Calculated as common shareholders' equity excluding unrealized gains or losses on debt securities available for sale, unrealized gains on equity securities available for sale and unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges, net of deferred income taxes; plus certain mandatorily redeemable capital securities, less nonqualifying intangible assets net of applicable deferred income taxes, and certain nonfinancial equity investments.
Leverage Capital Ratio - Tier 1 capital as a percentage of average tangible assets.
Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio - The sum of Tier 1 capital, a qualifying portion of subordinated debt, and a qualifying portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Net Charge-Off Ratio  Loan and lease losses net of recoveries as a percentage of average loans and leases.
Net Revenue - Net interest income FTE before the provision for loan losses plus noninterest income.
Internal Rate of Return - The interest rate that equates the present value of future returns to the investment outlay. An investment is considered acceptable if its IRR exceeds the required return. The investment is defined as the market value of the stock and/or other consideration to be received by the selling shareholders.
Certain of the ratios discussed above may be annualized if the applicable periods are less than a full year.
The foregoing may be deemed to be offering materials of BB&T Corporation ("BB&T") in connection with BB&T's proposed acquisition of Main Street Banks, Inc. ("Main Street") on the terms and subject to the conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated December 14, 2005, between BB&T and Main Street.
After it is filed with the SEC, the proxy statement/prospectus will be available for free, both on the SEC's web site (http://www.sec.gov) and from Main Street and BB&T, as follows:
Shareholders of Main Street Banks, Inc., BB&T Corporation, and other investors are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S-4 which BB&T will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger because it will contain important information about BB&T; Main Street Banks, Inc.; the merger; the persons soliciting proxies in the merger; and their interests in the merger and related matters.
BB&T, Main Street and their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders of Main Street in connection with this transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of BB&T may be found in BB&T's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 25, 2005 and will be incorporated by reference in the proxy statement/prospectus. Information about Main Street's directors and executive officers may be found in Main Street's proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC on April 22, 2005. You can obtain free copies of these documents as described above. In addition to the proposed registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus, BB&T & Main Street file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. These filings also are available on the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov.


