FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20060112090534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 8.01   Other Events
           The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to announce the signing of a definitive merger agreement for BB&T Corporation to acquire First Citizens Bancorp of Cleveland, Tennessee, and to furnish the related analyst presentation materials.
ITEM 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:       Janurary 12, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
Jan. 12, 2006
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
BB&T to acquire First Citizens Bancorp of Cleveland, Tenn.
            BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) today said it plans to buy privately held First Citizens Bancorp in a $142.6 million transaction that would strengthen BB&T's presence in east Tennessee, including the fast growing Interstate 75 corridor between Knoxville and Chattanooga.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
          With $686 million in assets, Cleveland-based First Citizens Bancorp is the fourth largest bank in east Tennessee. Founded in 1974, it operates 16 full-service banking centers in Tennessee, two in North Carolina and one in Georgia through banking subsidiaries The Bank/First Citizens of Cleveland, Tenn.; The Home Bank of Tennessee of Maryville; and The Home Bank of Ducktown, Tenn.
          First Citizens shareholders can elect to receive either 1.30 shares of BB&T stock for each of their shares or a cash option. The cash amount would be BB&T's average share price for a five-day period prior to closing multiplied by 1.30 (limited to 25 percent of First Citizens shares outstanding at closing. If that percentage is exceeded, a portion would be converted to stock.)
          Approved by the directors of both companies, the transaction is valued at $54.52 per First Citizens share based on the stock swap option and BB&T's closing price Wednesday of $41.94. The merger, which is subject to regulatory and shareholder approval, is expected to be completed in the second quarter.
          "This merger accelerates our long-term earnings growth potential by expanding our Tennessee market," said BB&T Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Allison. "It will allow us to extend our growing Knoxville-based presence toward Chattanooga and on to our existing north Georgia franchise.
          "But more than attractive markets, we realized long ago that the success of our mergers depends primarily on people. And First Citizens is certainly led by very experienced bankers who focus on highly personal service, profitability, growth and credit quality."
          The merger would bump BB&T from ninth to seventh in deposit market share in Tennessee and from fifth to fourth in east Tennessee. BB&T would jump from eighth to first in deposit market share in the Cleveland metropolitan statistical area.
          Tennessee's transportation infrastructure  including four major interstate highways in east Tennessee  makes the Midstate attractive to commercial manufacturers. More than 145 manufacturers are located in Cleveland-Bradley County alone, along with major employers in health care, financial services, retail and education.
          Knoxville is the 14th best city in the nation for business relocation or expansion and Chattanooga is among the top 50, according to magazine.
Expansion Management
          First Citizens customers will be introduced to BB&T's strong branch-based sales culture and its broad product and services line, including insurance, mutual funds, trust, online banking, annuities, investment banking, retail brokerage, treasury services, leasing and international banking.
          "For some time now, we've had a clear-cut goal of becoming the leading community bank in the markets we serve," said Kenneth Rayborn, president and Chief Executive Officer of First Citizens Bancorp. "One of the great things about this merger is that BB&T's unique community banking structure will give us the autonomy to continue toward that goal by serving our clients in the same attentive manner they've grown accustomed to.
          "The fact that BB&T is known throughout the industry for its highly client-focused approach to doing business makes this an even better fit."
          BB&T divides its 11-state banking network into autonomous regions which operate like community banks. Nearly all decisions are made locally, close to the customer.
          Rayborn and Executive Vice President F. Alan Smith, along with the leadership of the other affiliate banks, will be actively involved in the merger integration and are expected to continue their association with the company, officials from both companies said.
          Rayborn will be offered a position on the Branch Banking and Trust Company board of directors for BB&T's lead bank subsidiary. The remaining members of the First Citizens and affiliate banks boards of directors will be asked to serve on BB&T local advisory boards. Smith will become a BB&T executive vice president.
          BB&T moved into Tennessee in December 2000 with its acquisition of the former BankFirst Corporation of Knoxville.
          The First Citizens merger announcement comes a month after BB&T said it would buy Main Street Banks Inc. of metro Atlanta in a $622.7 million stock swap.
          Winston-Salem-based BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries offer full-service commercial and retail banking and additional financial services such as insurance, investments, retail brokerage, corporate finance, consumer finance, treasury services, international banking, leasing and trust.
          BB&T operates more than 1,400 financial centers in the Carolinas, Virginia, Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Indiana and Washington, D.C.
          With $107.1 billion in assets, BB&T Corp. is the nation's ninth largest financial holding company. More information about BB&T Corp. is available at www.BBandT.com.
          
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections and estimates.
          
Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a summary of important factors that could affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this press release.
          
BB&T's news releases are available at no charge through PR Newswire's Company News On-Call facsimile service. For a menu of BB&T's news releases or to retrieve a specific release call 1-800-758-5804, extension 809325.
          
The foregoing may be deemed to be offering materials of BB&T Corporation in connection with BB&T's proposed acquisition of First Citizens Bancorp, on the terms and subject to the conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated Jan. 11, 2006, between BB&T and First Citizens. This disclosure is being made in connection with Regulation of Takeovers and Security Holder Communications (Release Nos. 33-7760 and 34-42055) adopted by the SEC.
          
BB&T and First Citizens shareholders and other investors are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S-4, which BB&T will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger, because it will contain important information about BB&T, First Citizens, the merger, the persons soliciting proxies in the merger and their interests in the merger and related matters.
          
The respective directors and executive officers of BB&T and First Citizens and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies with respect to the proposed transaction. Information regarding BB&T's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 25, 2005.
          
Other information regarding the participants in the solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
          
First Citizens is a privately held corporation.
          
The press release does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, shares of BB&T common stock, or the solicitation of any proxies from First Citizens shareholders.
          
After it is filed with the SEC, the joint proxy statement/prospectus will be available for free, both on the SEC Web site (www.sec.gov) and from BB&T and First Citizens as follows:
          
Michael L. Nichols, External Reporting Manager, BB&T Corporation, 150 S. Stratford Road, Suite 400, Winston-Salem, NC 27104. Telephone: (336) 733-3079.
          
F. Alan Smith, EVP, First Citizens Bancorp, 2305 Keith St., Cleveland, TN. Telephone: (423) 478-8600.
          
In addition to the proposed registration statement and joint proxy statement/prospectus, BB&T files annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information filed by either company at the SEC's public reference rooms at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC's other public reference rooms in New York and Chicago.
          
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for more information on the public reference rooms. BB&T filings with the SEC are also available to the public from commercial document-retrieval services and at www.sec.gov.

Exhibit 99.2
BB&T has made forward-looking statements in the accompanying analyst presentation materials that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of the management of BB&T, and on the information available to management at the time the analyst presentation materials were prepared. In particular, the analyst materials in this report include statements regarding estimated earnings per share of BB&T on a stand alone basis, expected cost savings from the merger, estimated merger or restructuring charges, estimated increases in First Citizens Bancorp's fee income ratio and net interest margin, estimated financial impacts resulting from deposit divestitures, the anticipated accretive effect of the merger, and BB&T's anticipated performance in future periods. With respect to estimated cost savings and merger or restructuring charges, BB&T has made assumptions about, among other things, the extent of operational overlap between BB&T and First Citizens Bancorp, the amount of general and administrative expense consolidation, costs relating to converting First Citizens Bancorp's bank operations and data processing to BB&T's systems, the size of anticipated reductions in fixed labor costs, the amount of severance expenses, the extent of the charges that may be necessary to align the companies' respective accounting policies, and the cost related to the merger. The realization of cost savings and the amount of merger or restructuring charges are subject to the risk that the foregoing assumptions are inaccurate.
Any statements in the accompanying exhibit regarding the anticipated accretive effect of the merger and BB&T's anticipated performance in future periods are subject to risks relating to, among other things, the following possibilities: (1) expected cost savings from this merger or other previously announced mergers may not be fully realized or realized within the expected time frame; (2) deposit attrition, customer loss or revenue loss following proposed mergers may be greater than expected; (3) competitive pressure among depository and other financial institutions may increase significantly; (4) costs or difficulties related to the integration of the businesses of BB&T and its merger partners, including First Citizens Bancorp, may be greater than expected; (5) changes in the interest rate environment may reduce margins; (6) general economic or business conditions, either nationally or regionally, may be less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality, or a reduced demand for credit; (7) legislative or regulatory changes, including changes in accounting standards, may adversely affect the businesses in which BB&T and First Citizens Bancorp are engaged; (8) adverse changes may occur in the securities markets; and (9) competitors of BB&T and First Citizens Bancorp may have greater financial resources and develop products that enable such competitors to compete more successfully than BB&T and First Citizens Bancorp.
BB&T believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. Such statements are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The future results and shareholder value of BB&T following completion of the merger may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results and values are beyond management's ability to control or predict.
*Includes the previously announced acquisition of Main Street Banks, Inc.
*First Citizens is a privately held company.
  Includes previously announced Main Street Banks, Inc. pending acquisition Based on closing prices as of 01/11/06
*
**
  *Based on BB&T's closing stock price of $41.94 on 01/11/06 and assuming shareholders choose the stock election (option 1). **Individual shareholders will be able to elect the proportion of their shares they exchange for option 1 or option 2. To the extent that total cash elections received from shareholders exceed the aggregate cash available, shares exchanged for the cash election (option 2) will be reallocated to the stock election (option 1) on a proportional basis. The aggregate cash election will be limited to 25% of the First Citizens' shares outstanding.
  *Assumes stock election by shareholders. **BB&T shares based on First Citizens' shares outstanding adjusted for stock options using the treasury method. BB&T expects to repurchase approximately 2.9% of these shares in the transaction.
*Source for Acquisition Comparables: SNL Financial
*Source for Acquisition Comparables: SNL Financial
*First Citizens is an S-Corp. Net income has been adjusted to reflect taxation as a C-Corp.
*BB&T anticipates consolidation of up to 11 of First Citizens' 19 locations with existing BB&T branches.
*2006 results are based on an assumed June 1, 2006 closing.
First Citizens Bancorp
Financial Summary
First Citizens is an S-Corp. Net Income has been adjusted to reflect estimated taxation as a C-Corp.
(1)
First Citizens Bancorp
Financial Summary
First Citizens Bancorp
Financial Summary
Return on Assets  Earnings (excluding merger-related and nonrecurring charges or credits) for the period as a percentage of average assets for the period.
Return on Equity  Earnings (excluding merger-related and nonrecurring charges or credits) for the period as a percentage of average common equity for the period.
Cash Basis Performance Results and Ratios  These calculations exclude the effect of intangible assets, amortization of intangibles, net amortization of purchase accounting mark-to-market adjustments, merger-related charges, and nonrecurring charges.
Efficiency Ratio  Noninterest expense as a percentage of the sum of net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis ("FTE") and noninterest income (excludes securities gains/losses, foreclosed property expense, provisions for or recaptures of the impairment of mortgage servicing rights, gains or losses on mortgage servicing rights-related derivatives, merger-related charges or credits, and nonrecurring items).
Tier 1 Capital  Calculated as common shareholders' equity excluding unrealized gains or losses on debt securities available for sale, unrealized gains on equity securities available for sale and unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges, net of deferred income taxes; plus certain mandatorily redeemable capital securities, less nonqualifying intangible assets net of applicable deferred income taxes, and certain nonfinancial equity investments.
Leverage Capital Ratio  Tier 1 capital as a percentage of average tangible assets.
Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio  The sum of Tier 1 capital, a qualifying portion of subordinated debt, and a qualifying portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Net Charge-Off Ratio  Loan and lease losses net of recoveries as a percentage of average loans and leases.
Net Revenue  Net interest income FTE before the provision for loan losses plus noninterest income.
Internal Rate of Return  The interest rate that equates the present value of future returns to the investment outlay. An investment is considered acceptable if its IRR exceeds the required return. The investment is defined as the market value of the stock and/or other consideration to be received by the selling shareholders.
Certain of the ratios discussed above may be annualized if the applicable periods are less than a full year.
The foregoing may be deemed to be offering materials of BB&T Corporation ("BB&T") in connection with BB&T's proposed acquisition of First Citizens Bancorp ("First Citizens") on the terms and subject to the conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated January 11, 2006, between BB&T and First Citizens.
After it is filed with the SEC, the proxy statement/prospectus will be available for free, both on the SEC's web site (http://www.sec.gov) and from BB&T and First Citizens, as follows:
Shareholders of First Citizens Bancorp, BB&T Corporation, and other investors are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S-4 which BB&T will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger because it will contain important information about BB&T, First Citizens Bancorp, the merger, the persons soliciting proxies in the merger, and their interests in the merger and related matters.
BB&T, First Citizens and their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders of First Citizens in connection with this transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of BB&T may be found in BB&T's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 25, 2005 and will be incorporated by reference in the proxy statement/prospectus. You can obtain free copies of these documents as described above. In addition to the proposed registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus, BB&T files annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. These filings also are available on the SEC's web site at . First Citizens is a privately held corporation.
http://www.sec.gov


