FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20061221073339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 7.01   Regulation FD Disclosure
           The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to announce the signing of a definitive merger agreement for BB&T Corporation to acquire Coastal Financial Corporation of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, and to furnish the related analyst presentation materials.
ITEM 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:       December 21, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
Dec. 21, 2006
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
BB&T to acquire Coastal Financial Corporation of Myrtle Beach, S.C.
             BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) and Coastal Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CFCP) today announced that they have signed a definitive merger agreement. The $394.6 million transaction would give BB&T the No. 1 deposit market share in the thriving metro Myrtle Beach, S.C., market.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. and MYRTLE BEACH, S.C.
           With $1.7 billion in assets, Myrtle Beach-based Coastal Financial operates 24 banking offices through subsidiary federal savings bank Coastal Federal Bank. It operates 17 banking offices in the greater Myrtle Beach area and seven in greater Wilmington, N.C., where BB&T already has the No. 1 market share.
           Approved by the directors of both companies, the transaction is valued at $17.04 per Coastal Financial share based on BB&T's closing price Wednesday of $44.27. The exchange ratio is fixed at 0.385 of a share of BB&T stock for each share of Coastal Financial stock. The merger, which is subject to regulatory and Coastal Financial shareholder approval, is expected to be completed in the second quarter.
           "Coastal Financial is an excellent community bank with an operating philosophy centered around highly personal service," said BB&T Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Allison. "Coastal cities in the Carolinas continue to be some of the highest performing markets anywhere in our footprint, and that certainly includes the economically attractive Myrtle Beach and Wilmington areas."
          BB&T currently has the No. 4 market share in Horry County's Myrtle Beach. The nation's 13th fastest growing metropolitan statistical area expanded by more than 35 percent over the past decade alone. Housing starts in Horry County have surged past national numbers, including a robust 65 percent increase in new residential construction permits from 2001 to 2004, the most recent figures available.
          With its world renowned golf, shopping and family entertainment, the coastal mecca draws 13 million visitors a year, according to the Myrtle Beach Chamber of Commerce.
          Similarly, the local economy in greater Wilmington, an international trade port, continues to outperform the economies of North Carolina and the nation as a whole.
          Economic activity in North Carolina's Brunswick, New Hanover and Pender counties rose almost 10 percent in both 2004 and 2005, and another eight percent through the middle of this year, according to the Greater Wilmington Chamber of Commerce. The economy is expected to grow another eight percent in 2007, led by professional and medical services and retail sales.
          Coastal Financial clients will be introduced to BB&T's branch-based sales culture and its broad product and services line, including insurance, mutual funds, trust, online banking, annuities, investment banking, retail brokerage, treasury services, leasing and international banking.
          "Just like BB&T, we have a long heritage based on the belief that our primary mission is to do absolutely everything we can to help our customers realize their financial dreams," said Coastal Financial Corporation President and Chief Executive Officer Mike Gerald. "By joining forces with BB&T, we'll be able to offer our customers all the products and services and convenience that the nation's 11th largest financial services institution can provide. And BB&T's unique community banking structure will allow us to continue to make nearly all of our own decisions."
          BB&T divides its 11-state banking network into autonomous regions which operate like community banks.
          Coastal Federal Bank was founded in Myrtle Beach in 1954 by community leaders who saw a need for a local bank to serve residents looking to buy or build a home. It became a public company in 1990. Coastal was ranked as the No. 1 community bank in the Carolinas in September for the seventh year in a row by U.S. Banker Magazine.
          Coastal Financial board members will be asked to serve on local BB&T advisory boards.
          The transaction would be BB&T's first merger in South Carolina since March 2001. BB&T would continue to have the third highest market share in South Carolina and the third highest in North Carolina. BB&T acquired Main Street Banks of metropolitan Atlanta in June and First Citizens Bancorp of Cleveland, Tenn., in August.
           Winston-Salem-based BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries offer full-service commercial and retail banking and additional financial services such as insurance, investments, retail brokerage, corporate finance, consumer finance, payment services, international banking, leasing and trust.
           BB&T operates more than 1,450 financial centers in the Carolinas, Virginia, Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Indiana and Washington, D.C.
           With $118.5 billion in assets, BB&T Corp. is the nation's 11th largest financial holding company. More information about BB&T Corp. is available at www.BBT.com.
           Muldoon Murphy & Aguggia LLP served as legal counsel to Coastal Financial Corporation while Keefe, Bruyette & Woods acted as the company's financial advisor.
           
This news release contains forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities laws. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ materially from current projections and estimates.
           
Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a summary of important factors that could affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this news release.
           
BB&T's news releases are available at no charge through PR Newswire's Company News On-Call facsimile service. For a menu of BB&T's news releases or to retrieve a specific release call 1-800-758-5804, extension 809325.
           
The foregoing may be deemed to be offering materials of BB&T Corporation in connection with BB&T's proposed acquisition of Coastal Financial Corporation, on the terms and subject to the conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated December 20, 2006, between BB&T and Coastal Financial. This disclosure is being made in connection with Regulation of Takeovers and Security Holder Communications (Release Nos. 33 7760 and 34 42055) adopted by the SEC.
           
BB&T and Coastal Financial shareholders and other investors are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S 4, which BB&T will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger, because it will contain important information about BB&T, Coastal Financial, the merger, the persons soliciting proxies in the proposed merger and their interests in the proposed merger and related matters.
           
The respective directors and executive officers of BB&T and Coastal Financial and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Coastal Financial shareholders with respect to the proposed transaction. Information regarding BB&T's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 15, 2006. Information regarding Coastal Financial's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC on December 18, 2006.
           
Other information regarding the participants in the solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
           
This news release is not an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, shares of BB&T common stock, or the solicitation of any proxies from Coastal Financial shareholders.
           
After it is filed with the SEC, the proxy statement/prospectus will be available for free, both on the SEC Web site (www.sec.gov) and from BB&T and Coastal Financial as follows:
           
Michael L. Nichols, External Reporting Manager, BB&T Corporation, 150 S. Stratford Road, Suite 400, Winston-Salem, NC 27104. Telephone: (336) 733-3079.
           
Susan J. Cooke, Senior Vice President and Secretary, Coastal Financial Corporation, 2619 Oak St., Myrtle Beach, SC 29577. Telephone: (843) 205-2676.
           
In addition to the proposed registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus, BB&T and Coastal Financial file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information filed by either company at the SEC's public reference rooms at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC's other public reference rooms in New York and Chicago.
           
Please call the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330 for more information on the public reference rooms. BB&T and Coastal Financial SEC filings also are available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and at www.sec.gov.

Exhibit 99.2
BB&T has made forward-looking statements in the accompanying analyst presentation materials that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of the management of BB&T, and on the information available to management at the time the analyst presentation materials were prepared. In particular, the analyst materials in this report include statements regarding expected cost savings from the merger, estimated merger or restructuring charges, estimated increases in Coastal Financial Corporation's fee income ratio, the anticipated accretive effect of the merger, and BB&T's anticipated performance in future periods. With respect to estimated cost savings and merger or restructuring charges, BB&T has made assumptions about, among other things, the extent of operational overlap between BB&T and Coastal Financial Corporation, the amount of general and administrative expense consolidation, costs relating to converting Coastal Financial Corporation's bank operations and data processing to BB&T's systems, the size of anticipated reductions in fixed labor costs, the amount of severance expenses, the extent of the charges that may be necessary to align the companies' respective accounting policies, and other costs related to the merger. The realization of cost savings and the amount of merger or restructuring charges are subject to the risk that the foregoing assumptions are inaccurate.
Any statements in the accompanying exhibit regarding the anticipated accretive effect of the merger and BB&T's anticipated performance in future periods are subject to risks relating to, among other things, the following possibilities: (1) expected cost savings from this merger or other previously announced mergers may not be fully realized or realized within the expected time frame; (2) deposit attrition, customer loss or revenue loss following proposed mergers may be greater than expected; (3) competitive pressure among depository and other financial institutions may increase significantly; (4) costs or difficulties related to the integration of the businesses of BB&T and its merger partners, including Coastal Financial Corporation, may be greater than expected; (5) changes in the interest rate environment may reduce margins; (6) general economic or business conditions, either nationally or regionally, may be less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality, or a reduced demand for credit; (7) legislative or regulatory changes, including changes in accounting standards, may adversely affect the businesses in which BB&T and Coastal Financial Corporation are engaged; (8) adverse changes may occur in the securities markets; and (9) competitors of BB&T and Coastal Financial Corporation may have greater financial resources and develop products that enable such competitors to compete more successfully than BB&T and Coastal Financial Corporation.
BB&T believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. Such statements are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The future results and shareholder value of BB&T following completion of the merger may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results and values are beyond management's ability to control or predict.
  Based on closing prices as of 12/20/2006.
*
  *Based on BB&T's closing stock price of $44.27 on 12/20/06.
  *BB&T shares based on Coastal Financial's shares outstanding adjusted for stock options using the treasury method.
*Source for Acquisition Comparables: SNL Financial
*Source for Acquisition Comparables: SNL Financial
*BB&T's ratios are calculated on an operating basis.
Coastal Financial Corporation
Financial Summary
Coastal Financial Corporation
Financial Summary
* The average balance sheet was built using information gathered from SEC filings and SNL Datasource.
Coastal Financial Corporation
Financial Summary
Return on Assets  Earnings (excluding equity-based compensation, merger-related charges or credits, and nonrecurring items) for the period as a percentage of average assets for the period.
Return on Equity  Earnings (excluding equity-based compensation, merger-related charges or credits, and nonrecurring items) for the period as a percentage of average common equity for the period.
Cash Basis Performance Results and Ratios  These calculations exclude the effect of intangible assets, amortization of intangibles, net amortization of purchase accounting mark-to-market adjustments, equity-based compensation, merger-related charges or credits, and nonrecurring items.
Efficiency Ratio  Noninterest expense as a percentage of the sum of net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis ("FTE") and noninterest income (excludes securities gains/losses, foreclosed property expense, increases or decreases in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights, gains or losses on mortgage servicing rights-related derivatives, equity-based compensation, merger-related charges or credits, and nonrecurring items).
Tier 1 Capital  Calculated as common shareholders' equity excluding unrealized gains or losses on debt securities available for sale, unrealized gains on equity securities available for sale and unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges, net of deferred income taxes; plus certain mandatorily redeemable capital securities, less nonqualifying intangible assets net of applicable deferred income taxes, and certain nonfinancial equity investments.
Leverage Capital Ratio  Tier 1 capital as a percentage of average tangible assets.
Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio  The sum of Tier 1 capital, a qualifying portion of subordinated debt, and a qualifying portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Net Charge-Off Ratio  Loan and lease losses net of recoveries as a percentage of average loans and leases.
Net Revenue  Net interest income FTE before the provision for loan losses plus noninterest income.
Internal Rate of Return  The interest rate that equates the present value of future returns to the investment outlay. An investment is considered acceptable if its IRR exceeds the required return. The investment is defined as the market value of the stock and/or other consideration to be received by the selling shareholders.
Certain of the ratios discussed above may be annualized if the applicable periods are less than a full year.
The foregoing may be deemed to be offering materials of BB&T Corporation ("BB&T") in connection with BB&T's proposed acquisition of Coastal Financial Corporation ("Coastal Financial") on the terms and subject to the conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated December 20, 2006, between BB&T and Coastal Financial.
After it is filed with the SEC, the proxy statement/prospectus will be available for free, both on the SEC's web site (http://www.sec.gov) and from Coastal Financial and BB&T, as follows:
Shareholders of Coastal Financial Corporation, BB&T Corporation, and other investors are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S-4 which BB&T will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger because it will contain important information about BB&T; Coastal Financial Corporation; the merger; the persons soliciting proxies in the merger; and their interests in the merger and related matters.
BB&T, Coastal Financial and their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders of Coastal Financial in connection with this transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of BB&T may be found in BB&T's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 15, 2006 and will be incorporated by reference in the proxy statement/prospectus. Information about Coastal Financial's directors and executive officers may be found in Coastal Financial's proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC on December 18, 2006. You can obtain free copies of these documents as described above. In addition to the proposed registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus, BB&T & Coastal Financial file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. These filings also are available on the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov.


