FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20090508143454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 8.01 Other Events
     
On May 7, 2009, BB&T Corporation issued a press release regarding the Federal Reserve's announcement of the results of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, or "stress test." A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Ex 99.1 Press release issued May 7, 2009
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:
May 8, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 
BB&T capital levels exceed stress test requirements
     
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) said today that its capital levels are more than sufficient and exceed the government's minimum stress test requirements under a "more adverse" economic scenario, according to a report issued by federal regulatory agencies following a rigorous forward-looking examination of the nation's 19 largest financial institutions. The findings confirmed that BB&T will not be required to raise additional capital.
     
Results of the stress test revealed that BB&T was one of nine large financial institutions sufficiently capitalized under a "more adverse" macroeconomic scenario projecting a prolonged and deepening recession using assumptions more severe than BB&T's estimates. The stress test results also revealed that BB&T surpassed minimum capital requirements for regulatory and tangible capital.
     
"Our capital levels have remained strong throughout this economic downturn, and we continue to lend to creditworthy borrowers in our markets, with loan originations exceeding $6 billion per month," said Chief Executive Officer Kelly King. "While we do face credit-related challenges, our own adverse-case scenario is more favorable than the government's stress test results.
     
"Now that the stress test is behind us, we will proceed with efforts to implement a capital plan that accomplishes our three strategic objectives," said King. "First, we must remain a very well-capitalized financial institution throughout this credit cycle. We also want to repay the government's investment under the Capital Purchase Program as soon as possible. Finally, our strong capital position will help us take advantage of future opportunities on the other side of this economic correction."
     
With $143 billion in assets, BB&T is the nation's 11th largest financial- holding company and operates more than 1,500 financial centers in 11 states and Washington, D.C.


