FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20100222160544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explanatory Note
On August 17, 2009, BB&T Corporation ("BB&T") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Original Report") to report that its wholly owned subsidiary, Branch Banking and Trust Company ("Branch Bank") had entered into a purchase and assumption agreement on August 14, 2009 (the "Agreement") with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"), as receiver, pursuant to which Branch Bank acquired certain assets and assumed substantially all of the deposits and certain liabilities of Colonial Bank, an Alabama state-chartered bank headquartered in Montgomery, Alabama ("Colonial Bank").
On October 21, 2009, BB&T filed an amendment to the Original Report ("Amendment No. 1") to amend and supplement the disclosures provided in Items 2.01 and 9.01 of the Original Report. This Current Report on Form 8-K/A ("Amendment No. 2") is being filed to provide an audited statement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and to update the disclosures provided in Item 2.01 and 9.01 of the Original Report and Amendment No. 1. As described below, certain adjustments to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been made subsequent to Amendment No. 1. All financial and other numeric measures presented below are based upon information as of February 22, 2010 and may be subject to change. The final carrying values of acquired loans and the final list of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed remains subject to finalization and revision by the FDIC and Branch Bank as described below.
Statements made in this Amendment, other than those concerning historical financial information, may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are subject to risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding BB&T's expectations concerning its financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity and capital resources. A discussion of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's expectations is set forth under the captions "Forward-Looking Statements", "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in BB&T's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and in BB&T's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009.
 
The assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Colonial Bank acquisition are presented at estimated fair value on the date of the Agreement. The fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were determined as described in Note 3 to BB&T's Statement of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed, dated as of August 14, 2009, and the accompanying notes thereto, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 (the "Statement"). These fair value estimates are considered preliminary, and are subject to change for up to one year after the closing date of the acquisition as additional information relative to acquisition-date fair values becomes available. Branch Bank and the FDIC are engaged in on-going discussions that may impact which assets and liabilities are ultimately acquired or assumed by Branch Bank and/or the purchase price. In addition, the tax treatment of FDIC assisted acquisitions is complex and subject to interpretations that may result in future adjustments of deferred taxes as of the acquisition date. The disclosure set forth in this Item 2.01 reflects the status of these items to the best of management's knowledge as of February 22, 2010.
Since filing Amendment No. 1 on October 21, 2009, BB&T has obtained additional information that resulted in changes to certain acquisition-data fair value estimates. These adjustments resulted in a net decrease to goodwill totaling $157 million and were primarily comprised of the following:
 
 
 
Under the terms of the Agreement, Branch Bank had the option through February 1, 2010 to notify the FDIC of its intent to acquire the real estate, banking facilities, furniture and equipment of Colonial Bank ("Colonial premises and equipment") from the FDIC at their fair market value as of the acquisition date. Prior to the expiration of this option, Branch Bank notified the FDIC of its intention to purchase certain Colonial premises and equipment with an estimated fair market value totaling approximately $200 million. Branch Bank and the FDIC are continuing to evaluate appraisals related to these assets and as such, the acquisition of the Colonial premises and equipment is not reflected in the Statement. Substantially all of the Colonial premises and equipment subject to the purchase option described above has been leased from the FDIC on a month-to-month basis during the term of the purchase option.
Branch Bank also had an option through February 1, 2010 to notify the FDIC of its intent to assume or repudiate certain lease agreements of Colonial Bank. The repudiation or assumption of these lease agreements was finalized prior to the expiration of this option and the process to determine the fair value of assumed lease obligations is still on-going. A goodwill adjustment will be required to the extent the fair value of lease payments are different than the contractual amounts. Future minimum lease payments under the assumed Colonial lease agreements for the year ended December 31, 2010 are expected to total approximately $30 million.
On January 15, 2010, BB&T consummated the sale of approximately $850 million in deposits and certain branch locations in Nevada to U.S. Bank National Association (a wholly-owned subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp). These deposits and branch locations were part of the Colonial Bank acquisition as described herein and are reflected in the Statement. The goodwill and intangible assets allocated to the Nevada business were not material.
 
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired and Exhibits
Discussion
A narrative description of the anticipated effects of the Colonial Bank acquisition on BB&T's financial condition, liquidity, capital resources and operating results was reflected in Section 9.01 of Amendment No. 1. As set forth in Item 2.01, BB&T determined that adjustments to certain acquisition-date fair value estimates were recorded, resulting in a net decrease to goodwill totaling approximately $157 million. The following discussion replaces, in their entirety, the information presented in the first three paragraphs under and the fifth and sixth paragraphs of in Item 9.01 of Amendment No. 1. The other disclosures made in Item 9.01 of Amendment No. 1 were not materially changed and have not been revised.
Financial Condition
Operating Results and Cash Flows,
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements and the related notes of BB&T, which have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") and the Statement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Financial Condition
In the acquisition, Branch Bank purchased $14.3 billion of loans, having a fair value of $9.8 billion. This amount represents approximately 10.0 % of BB&T's total loans and leases (net of the allowance for loan and lease losses) at June 30, 2009. Other real estate acquired was $144 million at fair value.
The following table presents information with respect to the carrying value of certain earning assets acquired, as well as their principal amount and average effective yield and term, and the amounts of acquired loans with credit-related impairment that are accounted for in accordance with the provisions of the FASB Codification Topic 310-30: ("Topic 310-30") and other acquired loans.
Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality
 
 
The following table reflects the contractual maturities of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, as well as real estate construction loans:
 
 
 
Operating Results and Cash Flows
Topic 310-30 applies to a loan with evidence of deterioration of credit quality since origination, acquired by completion of a transfer for which it is probable that the investor will be unable to collect all contractually required payments receivable at acquisition. Topic 310-30 prohibits carrying over or creating an allowance for loan losses upon initial recognition for loans that fall under its scope. On the acquisition date, the preliminary estimate of the contractual principal and interest payments for all impaired loans acquired in the acquisition was $8.3 billion and the estimated fair value of the loans was $3.8 billion, net of an accretable yield of $1.0 billion. These amounts were determined based upon the estimated remaining life of the underlying loans, which include the effects of estimated prepayments, expected credit losses, market liquidity and interest rates.
On the acquisition date, the unpaid principal balance for all non-impaired loans acquired in the acquisition was $7.0 billion and the estimated fair value of the loans totaled $4.9 billion. The fair value of non-impaired loans was determined based upon the estimated remaining life of the underlying loans, which include the effects of estimated prepayments, expected credit losses, adjustments related to market liquidity and prevailing interest rates at the acquisition date.
Financial Statements
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 9.01(a) is the Statement.
BB&T has omitted certain financial information of Colonial Bank required by Rule 3-05 of Regulation S-X and the related pro forma financial information under Article 11 of Regulation S-X pursuant to the guidance provided in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 1:K,  ("SAB 1:K"). SAB 1:K provides relief from the requirements of Rule 3-05 in certain instances, such as the transaction, where a registrant engages in an acquisition of a significant amount of assets of a troubled financial institution that involves pervasive federal assistance and audited financial statements of the troubled financial institution are not reasonably available.
Financial Statements of Acquired Troubled Financial Institutions
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 23
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 33-57859, 33-57861, 333-02899, 333-27755, 333-35879, 333-64074, 333-105129,333-126592, 333-134261, 333-150201 and 333-152543) and Form S-8 (Nos. 33-52367, 33-57865, 33-57867, 33-57871, 333-03989, 333-50035, 333-69823, 333-81471, 333-36540, 333-36538, 333-52278, 333-104934, 333-116488, 333-116502, 333-118152, 333-118153, 333-118154, 333-147923, 333-147924, 333-158895 and 333-158896) of BB&T Corporation of our report dated February 22, 2010, with respect to the statement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed by Branch Banking and Trust Company (a wholly owned subsidiary of BB&T Corporation), which appears in the Current Report on Form 8-K of BB&T Corporation dated February 22, 2010.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP
Charlotte, North Carolina
February 22, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
To The Board of Directors and Shareholders of BB&T Corporation:
In our opinion, the accompanying statement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed of Branch Banking and Trust Company (a wholly owned subsidiary of BB&T Corporation) presents fairly, in all material respects, the statement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed by Branch Banking and Trust Company (a wholly owned subsidiary of BB&T Corporation) as of August 14, 2009 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. This statement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this statement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the statement in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statement is free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the statement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Montgomery, Alabama
February 22, 2010
 
 
 
Note 1  FDIC-Assisted Acquisition of Certain Assets and Liabilities of Colonial Bank
On August 14, 2009, Branch Banking and Trust Company ("Branch Bank"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of BB&T Corporation ("BB&T"), entered into a purchase and assumption agreement ("the Agreement") with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") to acquire certain assets and assume substantially all of the deposits and certain liabilities of Colonial Bank, an Alabama state-chartered bank headquartered in Montgomery, Alabama ("Colonial Bank").
Colonial Bank operated 357 locations in Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Texas and Nevada. Excluding the effects of purchase accounting adjustments, Branch Bank assumed approximately $19.2 billion of the deposits of Colonial Bank. Additionally, Branch Bank purchased approximately $14.3 billion in loans, $165 million of other real estate owned ("OREO") and $3.7 billion of investment securities. Approximately $14.3 billion of acquired loans and OREO and $1.1 billion of the purchased investment securities are covered by loss sharing agreements ("covered assets") between the FDIC and Branch Bank.
The assets acquired and liabilities assumed are presented at fair value on the date of acquisition. The fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were determined as described in Note 3 below. These fair value estimates are considered preliminary, and are subject to change for up to one year after the closing date of the acquisition as additional information relative to closing date fair values becomes available. Branch Bank and the FDIC are engaged in on-going discussions that may impact which assets and liabilities are ultimately acquired or assumed by Branch Bank and/or the purchase price. In addition, the tax treatment of FDIC assisted acquisitions is complex and subject to interpretations that may result in future adjustments of deferred taxes as of the acquisition date. This audited financial statement reflects the status of these discussions as of February 22, 2010.
Under the terms of the Agreement, Branch Bank had the option through February 1, 2010 to notify the FDIC of its intent to acquire the real estate, banking facilities, furniture and equipment of Colonial Bank ("Colonial premises and equipment") from the FDIC at their fair market value as of the acquisition date. Prior to the expiration of this option, Branch Bank notified the FDIC of its intention to purchase certain Colonial premises and equipment with an estimated fair market value totaling approximately $200 million. Branch Bank and the FDIC are continuing to evaluate appraisals related to these assets and as such, the acquisition of the Colonial premises and equipment is not reflected in the Statement. Substantially all of the Colonial premises and equipment subject to the purchase option described above were leased from the FDIC on a month-to-month basis during the term of the purchase option.
Branch Bank also had an option through February 1, 2010 to notify the FDIC of its intent to assume or repudiate certain lease agreements of Colonial Bank. The repudiation or assumption of these lease agreements was finalized prior to the expiration of this option and the process to determine the fair value of assumed lease obligations is still on-going. A goodwill adjustment will be required to the extent the fair value of lease payments are different than the contractual amounts.
As more fully described in Note 7, certain deposits and branch locations in Nevada were sold to U.S. Bank National Association ("U.S. Bank") effective January 15, 2010.
Note 2  Loss Sharing Agreement and FDIC Indemnification Asset
As part of the purchase and assumption agreement, Branch Bank and the FDIC also entered into certain loss sharing agreements. Pursuant to the terms of these loss sharing agreements, the FDIC's obligation to reimburse Branch Bank for losses with respect to certain loans, OREO, certain investment securities and other assets, begins with the first dollar of loss incurred. The terms of the loss sharing agreement with respect to certain non-agency mortgage-backed securities totaling $624 million provides that Branch Bank will be reimbursed by the FDIC for 95% of any and all losses. All other covered assets are subject to a stated threshold of $5.0 billion (the "stated threshold") that provides for the FDIC to reimburse Branch Bank for (1) 80% of losses incurred up to $5.0 billion and (2) 95% of losses in excess of $5.0 billion. Gains and recoveries on covered assets will offset losses, or be paid to the FDIC, at the applicable loss share percentage at the time of recovery.
 
The following table summarizes the assets covered by the loss sharing agreements, the amount covered by the FDIC and the fair value (in millions):
 
The amounts covered by the loss sharing agreements are the pre-acquisition book value of the underlying assets, the contractual balance of unfunded commitments that were acquired, and certain future net direct costs. The loss sharing agreement applicable to single family residential mortgage loans and related assets provides for FDIC loss sharing and Branch Bank reimbursement to the FDIC, in each case as described above, for ten years. The loss sharing agreement applicable to commercial loans, covered investment securities and other assets provides for FDIC loss sharing for five years and Branch Bank reimbursement of recoveries to the FDIC for a total of eight years, in each case as described above. The agreements with the FDIC also include an "upside on loss arrangement" provision that may result in an additional payment to the FDIC by Branch Bank if net losses on covered assets subject to the stated threshold are less than $5.0 billion.
The FDIC loss share indemnification asset, which totals $3.1 billion on the Statement of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed, reflects the present value of the expected net cash reimbursement related to the loss sharing agreements described above.
Note 3  Basis of Presentation
Branch Bank has determined that the acquisition of the net assets of Colonial Bank constitutes a business acquisition as defined by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Codification Topic 805: . Accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are presented at their fair values as required by that topic. Fair values were determined based on the requirements of FASB Codification Topic 820: In many cases the determination of these fair values required management to make estimates about discount rates, future expected cash flows, market conditions and other future events that are highly subjective in nature and subject to change. The following is a description of the methods used to determine the fair values of significant assets and liabilities.
Business Combinations
Fair Value Measurements
.
Cash, due from banks and federal funds sold, interest-bearing deposits in banks and the Federal Reserve
The carrying amount of these assets is a reasonable estimate of fair value based on the short-term nature of these assets.
Investment Securities
Fair values for investment securities are based on quoted market prices, where available. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value estimates are based on observable inputs including quoted market prices for similar instruments, quoted market prices that are not in an active market or other inputs that are observable in the market. In the absence of observable inputs, fair value is estimated based on pricing models and/or discounted cash flow methodologies.
Loans
Fair values for loans were based on a discounted cash flow methodology that considered factors including the type of loan and related collateral, classification status, fixed or variable interest rate, term of loan and whether or not the loan was amortizing, and current discount rates. Loans were grouped together according to similar characteristics and were treated in the aggregate when applying various valuation techniques. The discount rates used for loans are based on current market rates for new originations of comparable loans and include adjustments for liquidity concerns. The discount rate does not include a factor for credit losses as that has been included in the estimated cash flows.
 
Core deposit intangible
This intangible asset represents the value of the relationships that Colonial Bank had with its deposit customers. The fair value of this intangible asset was estimated based on a discounted cash flow methodology that gave appropriate consideration to expected customer attrition rates, cost of the deposit base, reserve requirements and the net maintenance cost attributable to customer deposits.
Other real estate owned
OREO is presented at the estimated present value that management expects to receive when the property is sold, net of related costs of disposal.
FDIC loss share indemnification asset
This loss sharing asset is measured separately from the related covered asset as it is not contractually embedded in the assets and is not transferable with the assets should Branch Bank choose to dispose of them. Fair value was estimated using projected cash flows related to the loss sharing agreements based on the expected reimbursements for losses and the applicable loss sharing percentages. These expected reimbursements do not include reimbursable amounts related to future covered expenditures. These cash flows were discounted to reflect the uncertainty of the timing and receipt of the loss sharing reimbursement from the FDIC.
Deferred taxes
Deferred taxes totaling approximately $306 million, which are reflected in the other assets line of the Statement of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed, relate to differences between the financial statement and tax basis of certain acquired assets and liabilities including the acquired loans, the loss share indemnification asset and certain acquired long-term debt. Deferred taxes are reported based upon the principles in FASB Codification Topic 740: and are calculated based on the estimated federal and state income tax rates currently in effect for BB&T.
Income Taxes,
Deposits
The fair values used for the demand and savings deposits that comprise the transaction accounts acquired by definition equal the amount payable on demand at the reporting date. The fair values for time deposits are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest rates currently being offered to the interest rates embedded on such time deposits.
Advances from Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta
The fair values of Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta ("FHLB") advances were based on pricing supplied by the FHLB.
Note 4  Investment Securities
The table below reflects the acquired investment securities at August 14, 2009:
 
 
The estimated fair values of available for sale securities are shown below by contractual maturity. Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
 
Note 5  Loans
The composition of loans acquired at August 14, 2009 is as follows (in millions):
 
The following table presents the impaired loans at August 14, 2009 (in millions):
 
The following table presents the non-impaired loans at August 14, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
Note 6  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The Statement of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed reflects goodwill and a core deposit intangible asset totaling $533 million and $176 million, respectively, at August 14, 2009. The core deposit intangible asset will be amortized over ten years based upon the estimated economic benefits received. Estimated amortization expense of the core deposit intangible asset for each of the next five years totals $46 million, $30 million, $24 million, $18 million and $15 million.
The goodwill arising from the acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of Colonial Bank from the FDIC reflects the increased market share and related synergies that are expected to arise from the transaction. The amount of goodwill is the residual difference in the fair value of the net liability assumed and the payment from the FDIC for assuming this net liability. The goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes.
Note 7  Deposits
Deposits assumed are composed of the following at August 14, 2009:
 
At August 14, 2009, scheduled maturities and the weighted average interest rate of certificates of deposit and other time deposits of more than $100,000 were as follows:
 
On January 15, 2010, BB&T consummated the sale of approximately $850 million in deposits and certain branch locations in Nevada to U.S. Bank National Association (a wholly-owned subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp). The Statement of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed and related notes have not been adjusted to reflect the sale of the branch locations in Nevada.
Note 8  Advances from Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta ("FHLB")
As of August 14, 2009, there were $3.3 billion in borrowings outstanding from the FHLB. The borrowings were secured by a blanket lien on eligible loans plus securities. The advances were recorded at their estimated fair value of $3.7 billion, which was derived using pricing supplied by the FHLB. Subsequent to the acquisition, $2.8 billion of advances were paid off. The remaining advances, which total approximately $851 million, are due in 2026 and have a weighted average effective interest rate of 4.7%.
 
Note 9  Net Liabilities Assumed
Under the terms of the purchase and assumption agreement, the FDIC agreed to transfer to Branch Bank (1) certain assets subject to loss-sharing agreements at book value, (2) certain assets that are not subject to the loss-sharing agreements at a contractually-specified purchase price, (3) certain assets at fair value and (4) certain liabilities at book value. The FDIC also agreed to transfer assets to Branch Bank to compensate for the $4.1 billion net liability that resulted from the transfer of assets and liabilities described above.
Details related to the transfer at August 14, 2009 are as follows (in millions):
 
 


