FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20101021060238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Form 8-K
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
October 21, 2010
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
BB&T Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Commission file number : 1-10853
 
 
(336) 733-2000
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     
On October 21, 2010, BB&T Corporation issued a press release reporting third quarter 2010 results, and posted on its website its third quarter 2010 Earnings Release Quarterly Performance Summary . The release contains forward-looking statements regarding BB&T and includes a cautionary statement identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The Earnings Release, Quarterly Performance Summary and Earnings Release Presentation are furnished as Exhibit 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3, respectively.
,
and Earnings Release Presentation
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
S I G N A T U R E
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 21, 2010

 
BB&T reports 3
rd
quarter EPS totaling $.30, up 30%; Net income increased 39%
BB&T grows loans in all non-real estate categories
     
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
-- BB&T Corporation (NYSE: BBT) today reported earnings for the third quarter of 2010. Net income available to common shareholders totaled $210 million, or $.30 per diluted common share, compared with $152 million, or $.23 per diluted common share, earned during the third quarter of 2009. These results reflect increases of 38.2% and 30.4%, respectively. Results include $10 million, or $.01 per share, of merger-related charges.
     
"BB&T again produced industry-leading loan growth, including substantial growth in all non-real estate portfolios compared to last quarter," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kelly S. King. "Loan growth in C&I lending, automobile finance, revolving credit and our specialized lending businesses has been exceptional. In fact, we generated double-digit growth in specialized lending and automobile finance. I am also pleased that we continued to grow pre-tax pre-provision earnings, which are up 61% on an annualized linked quarter basis, excluding securities gains. Our underlying businesses, in many ways, are performing better than ever, particularly in terms of client service delivery and market position. Also, we continued to grow low cost deposits, with 15.4% annualized growth in noninterest-bearing deposits compared to last quarter.
     
"We gained momentum in the execution of our asset disposition strategy, transferring $1.3 billion in nonperforming loans to loans held for sale. We have sold $451 million in loans and foreclosed properties this quarter and have more than $350 million in nonperforming assets under contract to sell.
     
"Despite elevated credit costs, we continue to invest in our revenue producing businesses through the development of our corporate banking team, wealth team and specialized lending subsidiaries, among others," said King. "These previous strategic investments are paying off because we have a strong balance sheet and we are creating a better value proposition for our clients."
 
Quarterly Highlights Include:
 
BB&T has no issues of concern in its foreclosure processes
     
After completing an internal review, BB&T identified no issues of concern with its foreclosure processes. With knowledgeable specialists preparing all affidavits, BB&T has not engaged in "robo-signing." In addition, the company did not actively participate in private label securitizations that caused problems with assignment of loans for other banks. The company works hard to mitigate losses and work with borrowers, resorting to foreclosure only as a last option. BB&T has been very successful modifying mortgage loans with a 73% success rate under the HAMP program converting troubled borrowers to permanent modifications compared to an industry rate of approximately 20%.
     
"We operate a relatively low risk mortgage business model and we believe our foreclosure process is sound," said King. "It truly is a values-based approach where we work with our clients. Recently, we were recognized by J.D. Power and Associates for Highest in Customer Satisfaction With Primary Mortgage Servicers.'"*
Noninterest revenues increased 18.1%
     
Noninterest income increased $170 million, or 18.1%, in the third quarter compared to the same period last year primarily due to a $208 million increase in securities gains and a $40 million increase in mortgage banking income. These increases were partially offset by a $33 million decrease in service charges on deposits and a $46 million reduction in noninterest income to reflect the offset related to the FDIC loss share agreements.
     
BB&T earned $184 million in mortgage banking revenue in the third quarter, an increase of 27.8% compared to the third quarter last year. The increase in mortgage banking income is primarily due to increased refinance-related production revenues from favorable spreads on mortgage loans. BB&T originated $6.7 billion of mortgage loans during the third quarter compared to $5.0 billion in originations in the second quarter and $6.9 billion in the third quarter last year.
     
Checkcard fees and other nondeposit fees and commissions increased 18.6% and 25.4%, respectively, compared to the third quarter of 2009. The increase in checkcard fees was primarily due to increased usage by new and existing clients. The growth in nondeposit fees and commissions was primarily the result of stronger performance in commercial lending-related revenues. Service charges on deposit accounts totaled $147 million in the third quarter, a decrease of 18.3% compared to the same quarter of 2009. The decrease in service charges was primarily due to regulatory changes related to overdraft policies. Trust and investment advisory revenue increased 11.1% for this same period due to improved performance from Sterling Capital Management, BB&T's asset management subsidiary.
     
Other noninterest income totaled $(13 million) during the third quarter, compared with $20 million for the same period of 2009. The decrease is due to market-related decreases in trading assets for post-employment benefits that are offset by a similar decrease in personnel expense and losses recorded on loans held for sale.
Noninterest expenses decrease on a linked quarter basis
     BB&T's noninterest expenses decreased $92 million, or 24.3% on an annualized linked quarter basis. This
decrease was due to substantially lower foreclosed property costs and lower merger-related expenses. Noninterest expenses increased $88 million, or 6.7%, in the third quarter of 2010 compared with the same period in 2009. The increase included $49 million of additional expenses related to foreclosed properties; a $16 million increase in professional services costs; $15 million in loan processing expense; and $17 million in higher regulatory charges. These increases were partially offset by declines of $8 million in merger-related and restructuring charges and $8 million in other expenses.
BB&T's performance drives positive operating leverage for the third quarter
     
Growth in revenues and lower expenses drove positive operating leverage for the third quarter of 2010 compared to the second quarter. Total revenues increased by 4% on an annualized basis and expenses decreased by 24%, led by lower writedowns on foreclosed properties.
Earnings webcast, presentation and Quarterly Performance Summary
     
To hear a live webcast of BB&T's third quarter 2010 earnings conference call at 8 a.m. (ET) today, please visit our Web site at
www.BBT.com
.
A presentation will be used during the earnings conference call and will be available on our Web site. Replays of the conference call will be available on the BB&T Web site until Thursday, November 4, or by dialing 1-888-203-1112 (access code 4313363) until Tuesday, October 26.
     
To access the webcast and presentation, including an appendix reconciling non-GAAP disclosures, go to
www.BBT.com
and click on "About BB&T" and proceed to "Investor Relations." The webcast link can be found under "Webcasts" and the presentation can be found under "View Recent Presentations."
     
BB&T's Third Quarter 2010 Quarterly Performance Summary, which contains detailed financial schedules, is available on BB&T's Web site at
www.BBT.com/financials.html
.
About BB&T
     
As of Sept. 30, BB&T is one of the largest financial services holding companies in the U.S. with $157.2 billion in assets and market capitalization of $16.7 billion. Based in Winston-Salem, N.C., the company operates approximately 1,800 financial centers in 12 states and Washington, D.C., and offers a full range of consumer and commercial banking, securities brokerage, asset management, mortgage and insurance products and services. A
Fortune 500
company, BB&T is consistently recognized for outstanding client satisfaction by J.D. Power and Associates, the U.S. Small Business Administration, Greenwich Associates and others. More information about BB&T and its full line of products and services is available at
www.BBT.com
.
###
Regulatory capital ratios are preliminary.
     
* Branch Banking and Trust received the highest numerical score among mortgage servicers in the proprietary J.D. Power and Associates 2010 Primary Mortgage Servicer StudySM. Study based on responses from 4,516 consumers measuring 19 companies and measures the satisfaction of consumers with their current mortgage servicer. Proprietary study results are based on experiences and perceptions of consumers surveyed in May-June 2010. Your experiences may vary. Visit jdpower.com
     
This news release contains performance measures determined by methods other than in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). BB&T's management uses these "non-GAAP" measures in their analysis of the corporation's performance. BB&T's management uses these measures to evaluate the underlying performance and efficiency of its operations. It believes that these non-GAAP measures provide a greater understanding of ongoing operations and enhance comparability of results with prior periods as well as demonstrating the effects of significant gains and charges in the current period. The company believes that a meaningful analysis of its financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance. BB&T's management believes that investors may use these non-GAAP financial measures to analyze financial performance without the impact of unusual items that may obscure trends in the company's underlying performance. These disclosures should not be viewed as a substitute for financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies. Tangible common equity and Tier 1 common equity ratios are non-GAAP measures. BB&T uses the Tier 1 common equity definition used in the SCAP assessment to calculate these ratios. BB&T's management uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and believes that investors may find them useful in their analysis of the corporation. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by other companies. Asset quality ratios have been adjusted to remove the impact of acquired loans and foreclosed property covered by the FDIC loss sharing a greements as management believes their inclusion results in distortion of those ratios and may not be comparable to other periods presented or to other portfolios that were not impacted by purchase accounting.
     
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may address issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results may differ materially from current projections. Please refer to BB&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a summary of important factors that may affect BB&T's forward-looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this news release.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
BB&T Corporation Quarterly Performance Summary Third Quarter 2010
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
3
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
4
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
5
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
6
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
7
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
8
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
9
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
10
 
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
11
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
12
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
13
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
14
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
15
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
16
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
17
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
18
 
SUPPLEMENTAL TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS INFORMATION
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
19
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
20
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
21
 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
22
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
23

Exhibit 99.3
 
 



