FILE:BBT/BBT-8K-20121219164952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
_______________
Form 8-K Current Report
______________ Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 December 19, 2012 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
 
BB&T Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
_____________
Commission file number : 1-10853
(336) 733-2000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On December 19, 2012, BB&T Corporation and Branch Banking and Trust Company (collectively, the Company) entered into an amended and restated employment agreement with its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kelly S. King. The amended agreement generally contains substantially the same terms as the prior version of the employment agreement between the Company and Mr. King, dated as of November 13, 2008, except that the amended agreement (1) eliminates the automatic expiration of the employment term upon Mr. King attaining age 65, (2) provides that severance is payable only upon a termination by the Company without just cause or by Mr. King for good reason (each as defined in the amended agreement), (3) defines change of control by reference to the Companys 2012 Incentive Plan, which was approved by Company shareholders at the Companys most recent annual meeting, (4) provides that the amount of severance benefits is determined by reference to Mr. Kings average annual cash compensation for the three years prior to the year of termination (Average Compensation Amount) rather than by reference to the highest such year of cash compensation (Highest Compensation Amount), (5) entitles Mr. King to change of control severance benefits  which are substantially the same as his severance benefits absent a change of control, except that certain nonsoliciation and noncompetition covenants would not apply  if he experiences a qualifying termination of employment within two years, rather than one year, following a change of control, and (6) makes several minor changes to update the provisions of the agreement to reflect changes since 2008, including the Companys exit in 2009 from the Capital Purchase Program under the Troubled Asset Relief Program of the United States Department of the Treasury and the corresponding lapse of certain compensation limitations formerly applicable to the Company.
 
The amounts payable under the amended agreement are substantially the same as under the prior version of the employment agreement, as described in greater detail under the heading Compensation of Executive Officers in the Companys Proxy Statement relating to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders for 2012, except that:
 
Mr. Kings annual base salary for 2012 is $985,000;
in the event of a termination of Mr. Kings employment by the Company without just cause or a resignation by Mr. King for good reason, Mr. King will be entitled to the Average Compensation Amount rather than the Highest Compensation Amount; and
if Mr. King has not previously discontinued the rolling monthly renewal feature of his amended agreement, one-twelfth of the Average Compensation Amount will be paid monthly over three years rather than until the first day of the calendar month of his 65 birthday.
th
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by the text of the amended and restated employment agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 Date: December 19, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
E
x
ecution Version 
AMENDED AND RESTATED
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
This AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (this ) is made and entered into effective as of December 19, 2012, (the ), by and among , a North Carolina corporation (), , a North Carolina chartered commercial bank (), and , an individual (). BB&T and BBTC are collectively referred to as the .
Agreement
Effective Date
BB&T CORPORATION
BB&T
BRANCH BANKING AND TRUST COMPANY
BBTC
KELLY S. KING
Executive
Employer
RECITALS
, Employer and their Affiliates are engaged in the banking and financial services business; and
WHEREAS
, Executive is experienced in, and knowledgeable concerning, the material aspects of such business; and
WHEREAS
, Executive is presently employed as the Chief Executive Officer of BB&T and BBTC pursuant to the terms of an employment agreement dated as of November 13, 2008 (the ); and
WHEREAS
Predecessor Agreement
, Employer and Executive desire to amend certain terms of the Predecessor Agreement; and
WHEREAS
BB&T, BBTC and Executive have determined that it is in their respective best interest to enter into this Agreement on the terms and conditions as set forth herein.
WHEREAS,
in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants and promises contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
AGREEMENT
Employer hereby employs Executive, and Executive hereby accepts employment by Employer commencing on the Effective Date, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Executive agrees to serve as (i) an employee of Employer and as an employee of one or more of Employers Affiliates; (ii) on such committees and task forces of the Employer (including, without limitation, BB&Ts Executive Management Team), as Executive may be appointed from time to time; and (iii) as a member of the Board of Directors of BB&T and/or BBTC as Executive may be appointed from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the failure to appoint or reappoint Executive to any committee or task force or Board of Directors be considered or treated either as a breach of this Agreement by the Employer or as a termination of Executives employment.
1.1
.
             
Employment
 
 
 
Executive shall serve as Chief Executive Officer of BB&T and BBTC, and shall report to the Boards of Directors of Employer. Executive shall devote all of Executives business time, attention, knowledge and skills solely to the business and interests of Employer and their Affiliates and shall not be otherwise employed. Executive shall at all times comply with and be subject to such policies and procedures as Employer may establish from time to time including, without limitation, conflict of interest policies. Employer and their Affiliates shall be entitled to all of the benefits, profits and other emoluments arising from or incident to all work, services and advice of Executive, and Executive shall not, during the Term, become interested, directly or indirectly, in any manner, as a partner, officer, director, stockholder, advisor, employee or in any other capacity in any other business similar to the business of Employer and their Affiliates. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed, however, to prevent or limit the right of Executive to invest in a business similar to the business of Employer and their Affiliates if such investment is limited to less than one (1) percent of the capital stock or other securities of any corporation or similar organization whose stock or securities are publicly owned or are regularly traded on any public exchange.
1.2
             
Duties
.
Subject to the provisions of Section 1.6 below, unless extended or shortened as provided in this Agreement, the term of employment of Executive under this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date, and shall continue until the expiration of a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive months immediately following the Effective Date (the ). As of the first day of each calendar month commencing January 1, 2013, the Term shall be automatically extended (without any further action of or by Employer or Executive) for an additional successive calendar month; provided, however, that on any one month anniversary date, either Employer or Executive may serve notice to the other parties to fix the Term to a definite thirty-six (36) month period from the date of such notice and no further automatic extensions shall occur. The Term as it may be extended pursuant to this Section 1.3, or, as it may be shortened in accordance with Section 1.6, is hereinafter referred to as the .
1.3
             
Term
.
Term
Term
1.4
             
Compensation And Benefits
.
In consideration of all of (i) the services rendered to Employer and Employers Affiliates hereunder by Executive, and (ii) Executives covenants hereunder, Employer shall, during the Term, pay Executive a salary at the annual rate of Nine Hundred Eighty-Five Thousand Dollars ($985,000) (the ), payable in equal cash installments in accordance with Employers regular payroll practices, but no less frequently than monthly. The annual Base Salary may be increased, but not decreased without the written consent of Executive, from time to time in the sole discretion of Employer and any such increased Base Salary shall thereafter constitute Base Salary for purposes of this Agreement, and may not thereafter be reduced without the written consent of Executive.
1.4.1
       
Base Salary.
Base Salary
During the Term, Executive shall continue to participate in any bonus or incentive plans of Employer, whether any such plan provides for awards in cash or securities, made available to other executives of Employer similarly situated to Executive, as such plan or plans may be modified from time to time, or such other similar plans for which Executive may become eligible and designated a participant.
1.4.2
       
Incentive Compensation.
 
Executive shall be eligible to participate in such employee benefits plans and programs of Employer (such as retirement, sick leave, vacation, group disability, health, life, and accident insurance) as may be in effect from time to time (and subject to the terms thereof) during the Term as are afforded to other similarly situated executives of BB&T.
1.4.3
       
Employee Benefits.
If, during the Term, Executive becomes eligible for benefits under the Pension Plan and retires, Executive shall be eligible to participate in the same retiree health care program provided to other retiring employees of BB&T who are also retiring at the same time. During the Compensation Continuance Period, Executive shall be deemed to be an active employee of Employer for purposes of participating in BB&Ts health care plan and for purposes of satisfying any age and service requirements under BB&Ts retiree health care program. Thus, if Executive has not satisfied either the age or service requirement (or both) under BB&Ts retiree health care program at the time payment of Executives Termination Compensation begins, but satisfies the age or service requirement (or both) at the time such Termination Compensation payments end, Executive shall be deemed to have satisfied the age or service requirement (or both) for purposes of BB&Ts retiree health care program as of the date Executives Termination Compensation payments end. For purposes of satisfying any service requirement under BB&Ts retiree health care program, Executive shall be credited with one year of service for each Computation Period which begins and ends during the Compensation Continuance Period.
Employer shall, upon receipt from Executive of supporting receipts to the extent required by applicable income tax regulations and Employers reimbursement policies, reimburse Executive for all out-of-pocket business expenses reasonably incurred by Executive in connection with Executives employment hereunder.
1.5
             
Business Expenses
.
Executives employment shall terminate upon the occurrence of any of the following at any time during the Term (the date of such termination, the ), and the Term shall automatically terminate immediately following any such termination of employment:
1.6
Termination.
             
Termination Date
. Executives employment shall terminate automatically upon Executives death.
1.6.1
       
Death
. Executives employment shall terminate automatically upon Executives Retirement.
1.6.2
       
Retirement
Executives employment shall terminate immediately upon the reasonable determination by Employer that Executive shall have been unable to substantially perform the essential functions of Executives duties by reason of a physical or mental disability, with or without reasonable accommodation, for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months (); provided that prior to any such termination for Disability, the Boards of Directors of Employer shall have given Executive at least thirty (30) days advance written notice of Employers intent to terminate Executive due to Disability, and Executive shall not have returned to full-time employment by the thirtieth (30th) day after such notice (termination pursuant to this Section 1.6.3 being referred to herein as termination for Disability).
1.6.3
       
Disability.
Disability
 
. Executives employment shall terminate on the date specified in Executives written notice to Employers Boards of Directors of Executives voluntary termination of employment; that Employer may accelerate the effective date of such termination (and the Termination Date) (termination pursuant to this Section 1.6.4 being referred to herein as ).
1.6.4
       
Voluntary Termination
provided, however,
Voluntary Termination
. Executives employment shall terminate immediately following notice of termination for Just Cause (as defined below), specifying such Just Cause, given by Employers Boards of Directors (termination pursuant to this Section 1.6.5 being referred to herein as termination for Just Cause).  shall mean and be limited to any one or more of the following: Executives personal dishonesty; gross incompetence; willful misconduct; breach of a fiduciary duty involving personal profit; intentional failure to perform stated duties; willful violation of any law, rule or regulation (other than traffic violations or similar offenses) or final cease-and-desist order; conviction of a felony or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; unethical business practices in connection with Employers business; misappropriation of Employers or their Affiliates assets (determined on a reasonable basis) or material breach of any other provision of this Agreement; provided, that Executive has received written notice from Employer of such material breach and such breach remains uncured for a period of thirty (30) days after the delivery of such notice. Notwithstanding the foregoing, during the Change of Control Period, Just Cause shall mean and be limited to Executives willful misconduct or gross negligence that causes material harm to Employer or Executives conviction of a felony. For purposes of this paragraph, no act or failure to act, on the part of Executive, shall be considered willful unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by Executive in bad faith or without a reasonable belief that Executives action or omission was in the best interests of Employer.
1.6.5
       
Termination for Just Cause
Just Cause
. Executives employment shall terminate immediately on the date specified in a written notice of termination without Just Cause from Employers Boards of Directors to Executive (termination pursuant to this Section 1.6.6 being referred to herein as termination ).
1.6.6
       
Termination Without Just Cause
Without Just Cause
. Subject to the following, Executives employment shall terminate thirty (30) days following the written notice by Executive to Employers Boards of Directors described in this Section 1.6.7; , that during any such thirty (30) day period, Employer may suspend, with no reduction in pay or benefits, Executive from Executives duties as set forth herein (including, without limitation, Executives position as a representative and agent of Employer and Employers Affiliates) (termination pursuant to this Section 1.6.7 being referred to herein as ). For purposes of this Section 1.6.7, a Good Reason Termination shall occur when Executive provides written notice to Employers Boards of Directors of termination for , which, as used herein, shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events without Executives express written consent:
1.6.7
       
Good Reason Termination
provided, however
Good Reason Termination
Good Reason
the assignment to Executive of duties inconsistent with the position and status of Chief Executive Officer of Employer; or
(i)
                
 
a reduction by Employer in Executives annual Base Salary as then in effect; or
(ii)
              
the exclusion of Executive from participation in Employers employee benefit plans (in which Executive meets the participation eligibility requirements) in effect as of, or adopted or implemented on or after, the Effective Date, as the same may be improved or enhanced from time to time during the Term;
(iii)
            
during the Change of Control Period, a reduction in Executives incentive compensation targets, including without limitation equity-based incentive compensation targets;
(iv)
            
during the Change of Control Period, a relocation of Executives principal place of employment resulting in a material increase in Executives commute to and from Executives primary residence (for this purpose a one-way increase in Executives commute by thirty-five (35) miles or more shall be deemed material) in comparison to Executives principal place of employment immediately prior to the applicable Change of Control; or
(v)
              
any purported termination of the employment of Executive by Employer which is not effected in accordance with this Agreement;
(vi)
            
that an event shall not constitute Good Reason , within ninety (90) days of the initial existence of an event, Executive gives Employer at least thirty (30) days prior written notice of such event setting forth a description of the circumstances constituting Good Reason and Employer fails to cure such within the thirty- (30-) day period following Employers receipt of such written notice.
provided, however,
unless
. Termination pursuant to this Agreement shall be in limitation of and with prejudice to any other right or remedy to which Executive may otherwise be entitled at law or in equity against Employer, its affiliates, and its agents, shareholders, employees, officers and directors.
1.6.8
       
No Other Remedies
A termination of Executives employment by Employer or Executive for any reason other than death shall be communicated by a written notice to the other parties, which written notice shall specify the effective date of termination.
1.6.9
       
Notice of Termination.
.
1.7
             
Termination Compensation And Post-Termination Benefits
. In the case of termination of Executives employment hereunder due to Executives death in accordance with Section 1.6.1 above, or Executives Retirement in accordance with Section 1.6.2 above, or Executives Voluntary Termination of employment hereunder in accordance with Section 1.6.4 above, or a termination of Executives employment hereunder for Just Cause in accordance with Section 1.6.5 above, (i) Executive shall not be
1.7.1
       
Retirement, Voluntary Termination, Termination for Just Cause, or Termination for Death
entitled to receive payment of, and Employer shall have no obligation to pay, any severance or similar compensation attributable to such termination (including, without limitation, Termination Compensation), Base Salary earned but unpaid; any bonuses and incentive compensation for the preceding year that was previously earned by Executive but unpaid on the Termination Date; accrued but unused vacation to the extent allowed by BB&Ts vacation pay policy; vested benefits under any Employer sponsored employee benefit plan; and any unreimbursed business expenses pursuant to Section 1.5 hereof incurred by Executive as of the Termination Date; (ii) Employers other obligations under this Agreement shall immediately cease; and (iii) except for termination as a result of Executives death, Executive agrees to comply with Executives Section 2 covenants (including, without limitation, compliance with the noncompetition and nonsolicitation covenants of Section 2) for a one (1) year period following Executives Termination Date.
other
than
 
. In the case of a termination of Executives employment hereunder for Disability in accordance with Section 1.6.3 above, during the first twelve (12) consecutive months of the period of Executives Disability, Executive shall continue to earn all compensation (including bonuses and incentive compensation) to which Executive would have been entitled if Executive had not been disabled, such compensation to be paid at the time, in the amount, and in the manner provided in Section 1.4, inclusive of any compensation received pursuant to any applicable disability insurance plan of Employer. Thereafter, Executive shall receive only compensation to which Executive is entitled under any applicable disability insurance plan of Employer; and Executive shall have no right to receive any other compensation (such as Termination Compensation) or other benefits upon or after Executives Termination Date. In the event a dispute arises between Executive and Employer concerning Executives Disability or ability to continue or return to the performance of his duties as aforesaid, Executive shall submit, at the expense of Employer, to examination of a competent physician mutually agreeable to the parties, and such physicians opinion as to Executives capability to so perform shall be final and binding upon Employer and Executive.
1.7.2
       
Termination for Disability
. In the case of a termination of Executives employment hereunder Without Just Cause in accordance with Section 1.6.6, Executive shall be entitled to the following in lieu of any other compensation or benefits (under Section 1.4 of this Agreement or otherwise) from Employer:
1.7.3
       
Termination Without Just Cause
Executive shall receive Termination Compensation each month during the Compensation Continuance Period, subject, however, to Executives compliance with Executives Section 2 covenants (including, without limitation, compliance with the noncompetition and nonsolicitation covenants of Section 2) for a one (1) year period following Executives Termination Date.
(i)
                
Employer shall use their best efforts to accelerate vesting of any unvested benefits of Executive under any employee stock-based or other benefit plan or arrangement to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A or other applicable law and the terms of such plan or arrangement.
(ii)
              
 
Employer shall make available to Executive, at Employers cost, outplacement services by such entity or person as shall be designated by Employer, with the cost to Employer of such outplacement services not to exceed Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000).
(iii)
            
During the Compensation Continuance Period, Executive shall either continue to participate (treating Executive as an active employee of Employer for this purpose) in the same group hospitalization plan, health care plan, dental care plan, life or other insurance or death benefit plan, and any other present or future similar group employee benefit plan or program for which officers of Employer generally are eligible, on the same terms as were in effect prior to Executives Termination Date, or, to the extent such participation is not permitted by any group plan insurer, under comparable individual plans and coverage (to the extent commercially available).
(iv)
            
The Termination Compensation and other benefits provided for in this Section 1.7.3 shall be paid by Employer in accordance with the standard payroll practices and procedures in effect prior to Executives Termination Date. If Executive breaches Executives obligations under Section 1.7.3 or Section 2 of this Agreement, Executive shall not be entitled to receive any further Termination Compensation or benefits pursuant to this Section 1.7.3 from and after the date of such breach.
. A Good Reason Termination under Section 1.6.7 shall entitle Executive to the following in lieu of any other compensation or benefits (under Section 1.4 of this Agreement or otherwise) from Employer:
1.7.4
       
Good Reason Termination
Executive shall receive Termination Compensation each month during the Compensation Continuance Period, subject, however, to Executives compliance with his Section 2 covenants (including, without limitation, compliance with the noncompetition and nonsolicitation provisions of Section 2) for a one (1) year period following Executives Termination Date.
(i)
                
Employer shall use their best efforts to accelerate vesting of any unvested benefits of Executive under any employee stock-based or other benefit plan or arrangement to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A or other applicable law and the terms of such plan or arrangement.
(ii)
              
Employer shall make available to Executive, at Employers cost, outplacement services by such entity or person as shall be designated by Employer, with the cost to Employer of such outplacement services not to exceed Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000).
(iii)
            
During the Compensation Continuance Period, Executive shall either continue to participate (treating Executive as an active employee of Employer for this purpose) in the same group hospitalization plan, health
(iv)
            
 
care plan, dental care plan, life or other insurance or death benefit plan, and any other present or future similar group employee benefit plan or program for which officers of Employer generally are eligible, on the same terms as were in effect prior to Executives Termination Date, or, to the extent such participation is not permitted by any group plan insurer, under comparable individual plans and coverage (to the extent commercially available).
The Termination Compensation and other benefits provided for in this Section 1.7.4 shall be paid by Employer in accordance with the standard payroll practices and procedures in effect prior to Executives Termination Date. If Executive breaches Executives obligations under Section 1.7.4 or Section 2 of this Agreement, Executive shall not be entitled to receive any further Termination Compensation or benefits pursuant to this Section 1.7.4 from and after the date of such breach.
If the employment of Executive is terminated during the Change of Control Period by Employer other than for Just Cause or by Executive for Good Reason, Executive shall be entitled to the following Termination Compensation and benefits in lieu of any other severance benefits from Employer:
1.7.5
       
Change of Control.
Executive shall receive Termination Compensation each month during the Compensation Continuance Period.
(i)
                
Employer shall use their best efforts to accelerate vesting of any unvested benefits of Executive under any employee stock-based or other benefit plan or arrangement to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A or other applicable law and the term of such plan or arrangement.
(ii)
              
Employer shall make available to Executive, at Employers cost, outplacement services by such entity or person as shall be designated by Employer, with the cost to Employer of such outplacement services not to exceed Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000).
(iii)
            
During the Compensation Continuance Period, Executive shall either continue to participate (treating Executive as an active employee of Employer for this purpose) in the same group hospitalization plan, health care plan, dental care plan, life or other insurance or death benefit plan, and any other present or future similar group employee benefit plan or program for which officers of Employer generally are eligible on the same terms as were in effect either (A) at his Termination Date, or (B) if such plans and programs in effect prior to the Change of Control were, considered together as a whole, materially more generous to the officers of Employer, than at the date of the Change of Control; or, to the extent such participation is not permitted by any group plan insurer, under comparable individual plans and coverage (to the extent commercially available).
(iv)
            
 
The Termination Compensation and other benefits provided for in this Section 1.7.5 shall be paid by Employer in accordance with the standard payroll practices and procedures in effect prior to Executives Termination Date. If Executive incurs a termination of employment pursuant to this Section 1.7.5, Executive shall be subject to all of the provisions of Section 2 other than the noncompetition and nonsolicitation provisions thereof. If Executive breaches Executives obligations under Section 2 of this Agreement, exclusive of the noncompetition and nonsolicitation provisions thereof, Executive shall not be entitled to receive any further Termination Compensation or benefits pursuant to this Section 1.7.5 from and after the date of such breach.
Should the circumstances of the termination of the employment of Executive result in application of both Section 1.7.3 or Section 1.7.4 and this Section 1.7.5, this Section 1.7.5 shall be deemed to apply and control.
. Termination of Executives employment relationship with Employer in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement does not terminate those obligations imposed by this Agreement which are continuing obligations, including, without limitation, Executives obligations under Section 2; provided, however, that the noncompetition and nonsolicitation provisions of Section 2.1 shall be inapplicable upon Executives Termination Date if Executives employment is terminated pursuant to Section 1.7.5. Any provision of this Agreement which by its terms obligates Employer to make payments subsequent to termination of Executives employment Term shall survive any such termination.
1.7.6
       
No Termination of Continuing Obligations
. Executive is a participant in the BB&T Corporation Non-Qualified Defined Benefit Plan (the ). The SERP was formerly known as the Branch Banking and Trust Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. The SERP is a non-qualified, unfunded supplemental retirement plan which provides benefits to or on behalf of selected key management employees. The benefits provided under the SERP supplement the retirement and survivor benefits payable from the Pension Plan. Except in the event the employment of Executive is terminated by the Employer or BB&T for Just Cause or by Executive for any reason other than Good Reason, the following special provisions shall apply for purposes of this Agreement:
1.7.7
       
SERP
SERP
The provisions of the SERP shall be and hereby are incorporated in this Agreement. The SERP, as applied to Executive, may not be terminated, modified or amended without the express written consent of Executive. Thus, any amendment or modification to the SERP or the termination of the SERP shall be ineffective as to Executive unless Executive consents in writing to such termination, modification or amendment. The Supplemental Pension Benefit (as defined in the SERP) of Executive shall not be adversely affected because of any modification, amendment or termination of the SERP. In the event of any conflict between the terms of this Section 1.7.7(i) and the SERP, the provisions of this Section 1.7.7(i) shall prevail. Executive hereby agrees and consents to Employers amendment of the SERP to comply with Section 409A.
(i)
                
 
Executive acknowledges and agrees that the duties and responsibilities to be performed by Executive under this Agreement are of a special and unusual character which have a unique value to Employer and their Affiliates, the loss of which cannot be adequately compensated by damages in any action in law. As a consequence of his unique position as Chief Operating Officer of Employer through December 31, 2008, and, effective January 1, 2009, as Chief Executive Officer and President of BB&T and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BBTC, Executive also acknowledges and agrees that Executive will have broad access to Confidential Information, that Confidential Information will in fact be developed by Executive in the course of performing Executives duties and responsibilities under this Agreement, and that the Confidential Information furnishes a competitive advantage in many situations and constitutes, separately and in the aggregate, valuable, special and unique assets of Employer and their Affiliates. Executive further acknowledges and agrees that the unique and proprietary knowledge and information possessed by, or which will be disclosed to, or developed by, Executive in the course of Executives employment will be such that Executives breach of the covenants contained in this Section 2.1 would immeasurably and irreparably damage Employer and their Affiliates regardless of where in the Restricted Area the activities constituting such breach were to occur. Thus, Executive acknowledges and agrees that it is both reasonable and necessary for the covenants in this Section 2.1 to apply to Executives activities throughout the Restricted Area. In recognition of the special and unusual character of the duties and responsibilities of Executive under this Agreement and as a material inducement to Employer to continue to employ Executive in this special and unique capacity, Executive covenants and agrees that, to the extent and subject to the limitations provided in this Section 2 (whichever portion may be applicable), including the limitation on the duration of the covenants therein contained, during the Term and upon termination of Executives employment for any reason, or upon the expiration of the Term, Executive shall not, on Executives own account or as an employee, associate, consultant, partner, agent, principal, contractor, owner, officer, director, member, manager or stockholder of any other Person who is engaged in the Business (collectively, the ), directly or indirectly, alone, for, or in combination with any one or more Restricted Persons, in one or a series of transactions:
2.1
.
             
Noncompetition
Restricted Persons
serve in any capacity of any Person who is engaged in the Business in any state in the Restricted Area and who is a direct competitor of Employer or of any Affiliate of Employer who is also engaged in the Business;
(i)
                
provide consultative services to any Person who is engaged in the Business in any state in the Restricted Area and who is a direct competitor of Employer or of any Affiliate of Employer who is also engaged in the Business;
(ii)
              
call upon any of the depositors, customers or clients of Employer (or of any Affiliate who is also engaged in the Business) who were such at any time during the twelve-month period ending on the Termination Date whose needs Executive gained information about during Executives employment with Employer for the purpose of soliciting or providing any product or service similar to that provided by Employer or their Affiliates;
(iii)
            
 
solicit, divert, or take away, or attempt to solicit, divert or take away any of the depositors, customers or clients of Employer (or of any Affiliate who is also engaged in the Business) who were such at any time during the twelve-month period ending on the Termination Date whose needs Executive gained information about during Executives employment with Employer; or
(iv)
            
induce or attempt to induce any employee of Employer or their Affiliates to terminate employment with Employer or their Affiliates.
(v)
              
Nothing in this Section 2.1 shall be read to prohibit an investment described in the last sentence of Section 1.2.
During the Term and at any time thereafter, and except as required by any court, supervisory authority or administrative agency or as may be otherwise required by applicable law, Executive shall not, without the written consent of the Boards of Directors of Employer, or a person authorized thereby, communicate, furnish, divulge or disclose to any Person, other than an employee of Employer or an Affiliate thereof, or a Person to whom communication or disclosure is reasonably necessary or appropriate in connection with the performance by Executive of Executives duties as an employee of Employer, any Confidential Information obtained by Executive while in the employ of Employer or any Affiliate, unless and until such information has become a matter of public knowledge at the time of such disclosure. Executive shall use Executives best efforts to prevent the removal of any Confidential Information from the premises of Employer or any of their Affiliates, except as required in connection with the performance of Executives duties as an employee of Employer. Executive acknowledges and agrees that (i) all Confidential Information (whether now or hereafter existing) conceived, discovered or developed by Executive during the Term belongs exclusively to Employer and not to him; (ii) that Confidential Information is intended to provide rights to Employer in addition to, not in lieu of, those rights Employer and their Affiliates have under the common law and applicable statutes for the protection of trade secrets and confidential information; and (iii) that Confidential Information includes information and materials that may not be explicitly identified or marked as confidential or proprietary. In addition, during the Term and at any time thereafter, Executive shall not make any disparaging remarks, or any remarks that could reasonably be construed as disparaging, regarding Employer or any of their Affiliates, or their officers, directors, employees, partners, or agents. Executive shall not take any action or provide information or issue statements, to the media or otherwise, or cause anyone else to take any action or provide information or issue statements, to the media or otherwise, regarding Employer or any of their Affiliates or their officers, directors, employees, partners, or agents.
2.2
             
Non-Disclosure Of Confidential Information; Non-Disparagement
.
During the Term, Executive shall not knowingly load any unauthorized software into Executives computer (whether personal or owned by Employer). Executive may request that Employer purchase, register and install certain software or other digital intellectual property, but Executive may not copy or install such software or intellectual property himself. Executive acknowledges that certain software and digital intellectual property is Confidential Information of Employer and Executive agrees, in accordance with Section 2.2, to keep such software and intellectual property confidential and not
2.3
             
Use Of Unauthorized Software
.
 to use it except in furtherance of Employers Business or the operations of Employer or its Affiliates.
 
During the Term and at any time thereafter, and except as may be required or deemed necessary or appropriate in connection with the performance by Executive of Executives duties as an employee of Employer, Executive shall not copy, dispose of or remove from Employer or their Affiliates any depositor, customer or client lists, software, computer programs or other digital intellectual property, books, records, forms, data, manuals, handbooks or any other papers or writings relating to the Business or the operations of Employer or their Affiliates.
2.4
             
Removal Of Materials
.
Employer alone shall be entitled to all benefits, profits and results arising from or incidental to Executives Work Product (as defined in this section 2.5). To the greatest extent possible, any work product, property, data, documentation, inventions or information or materials prepared, conceived, discovered, developed or created by Executive in connection with performing Executives responsibilities during the Term () shall be deemed to be work made for hire as defined in the Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C.A. 101 , as amended, and owned exclusively by Employer. Executive hereby unconditionally and irrevocably transfers and assigns to Employer all intellectual property or other rights, title and interest Executive may currently have (or in the future may have) by operation of law or otherwise in or to any Work Product. Executive agrees to execute and deliver to Employer any transfers, assignments, documents or other instruments which may reasonably be necessary or appropriate to vest complete title and ownership of any Work Product and all associated rights exclusively in Employer. Employer shall have the right to adapt, change, revise, delete from, add to and/or rearrange the Work Product or any part thereof written or created by Executive, and to combine the same with other works to any extent, and to change or substitute the title thereof, and in this connection Executive hereby waives the moral rights of authors as that term is commonly understood throughout the world including, without limitation, any similar rights or principles of law which Executive may now or later have by virtue of the law of any locality, state, nation, treaty, convention or other source. Unless otherwise specifically agreed, Executive shall not be entitled to any compensation in addition to that provided for in this Agreement for any exercise by Employer of its rights set forth in this Section 2.5. In the event any Work Product qualifies for protection under the United States Patent Act, 35 U.S.C.  1 , as amended, and Executive agrees to bear the cost of seeking a patent from the U.S. Patent Office, Employer agrees, upon the issuance of such patent and upon receipt from Executive of reimbursement of all costs and expenses related to obtaining such patent, to assign the patent to Executive. Executive hereby grants to Employer a royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable license to any such patent obtained by Executive in accordance with the preceding sentence.
2.5
             
Work Product
.
Work Product
et seq.
et. seq.
Consistent with Section 3.8 of this Agreement, the covenants contained in this Section 2 (the ) shall be construed and interpreted in any judicial proceeding to permit their enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law and each of the Covenants is severable and independently enforceable without reference to the enforceability of any other Covenants. Further, if any provision of the Covenants or of this Section 2 is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be overbroad as written, Executive specifically agrees that the court should modify such provision in order to make it enforceable, and that a court should view each such provision as severable and enforce those severable
2.6
             
Interpretation; Remedies
.
Covenants
provisions deemed reasonable by such court. Executive agrees that the restraints imposed by this Section 2 are fair and necessary to prevent Executive from unfairly taking advantage of contacts established, nurtured, serviced, enhanced or promoted and knowledge gained during Executives employment with Employer and their Affiliates, and are necessary for the reasonable and proper protection of Employer and their Affiliates and that each and every one of the restraints is reasonable with respect to the activities prohibited, the duration thereof, the Restricted Area, the scope thereof, and the effect thereof on Executive and the general public. Executive acknowledges that the Covenants will not cause an undue burden on Executive. Executive further acknowledges that violation of any one or more of the Covenants would immeasurably and irreparably damage Employer and their Affiliates, and, accordingly, Executive agrees that for any violation or threatened violation of any of such Covenants, Employer shall, in addition to any other rights and remedies available to it, at law or otherwise (including, without limitation, the recovery of damages from Executive), be entitled to specific performance and an injunction to be issued by any court of competent jurisdiction enjoining and restraining Executive from committing any violation or threatened violation of the Covenants. Executive hereby consents to the issuance of such injunction and agrees to submit to the equitable jurisdiction of any court of competent jurisdiction, without reference to whether Executive resides or does business in that jurisdiction at the time such injunction is sought or entered.
 
Executive agrees that prior to accepting employment with any other Person during the Term or during the two-year period following the termination of his employment with Employer, Executive shall provide Employer with written notice of his intent to accept such employment, which notice shall include the name of the prospective employer, the business engaged in or to be engaged in by the prospective employer, and the position Executive intends to accept with the prospective employer. In addition, Executive shall provide such prospective employer with written notice of the existence of this Agreement and the Covenants.
2.7
             
Notice Of Covenants
.
. All notices, requests, and other communications to any party under this Agreement must be in writing (including telefacsimile transmission or similar writing) and shall be given to such party at his, her or its address or telefacsimile number set forth below or at such other address or telefacsimile number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose of giving notice to the other party:
3.1
             
Notices
If to the Executive:
At the Executives most recent address on file at the Company.
 
If to the Employer, to:
BB&T Corporation Branch Banking and Trust Company West Second Street Winston-Salem, NC 27101 Facsimile: (336) 733-2189 Attention: General Counsel
Each such notice, request, demand or other communication shall be effective (i) if given by mail, 72 hours after such communication is deposited in the mails with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid or (ii) if given by any other means, when delivered at the address specified in this Section 3.1. Delivery of any notice, request, demand or other communication by telefacsimile shall be effective when received if received during normal business hours on a business day. If received after normal business hours, the notice, request, demand or other communication will be effective at 10:00 a.m. on the next business day.
. This Agreement expresses the whole and entire agreement between the parties with reference to the employment and service of Executive and supersedes and replaces any prior employment agreements (including, without limitation, the Predecessor Agreement), understandings or arrangements (whether written or oral) among Employer and Executive. Without limiting the foregoing, Executive agrees that this Agreement satisfies any rights Executive may have had under any prior agreement or understanding (including, without limitation, the Predecessor Agreement) with Employer with respect to Executives employment by Employer.
3.2
             
Entire Agreement
No waiver or modification of this Agreement or of any covenant, condition, or limitation herein contained shall be valid unless in writing and duly executed by the party to be charged therewith. No evidence of any waiver or modification shall be offered or received in evidence at any proceeding, arbitration, or litigation between the parties hereto arising out of or affecting this Agreement, or the rights or obligations of the parties hereunder, unless such waiver or modification is in writing, duly executed as aforesaid. The parties further agree that the provisions of this Section 3.3 may not be waived except as herein set forth.
3.3
             
Waiver; Modification
.
This Agreement may be amended, supplemented, or modified only by a written instrument duly executed by or on behalf of each party hereto.
3.4
             
Amendment
.
The terms and provisions of this Agreement are intended solely for the benefit of each party hereto and Employers successors or assigns, and it is not the intention of the parties to confer third-party beneficiary rights upon any other Person.
3.5
             
No Third Party Beneficiary
.
This Agreement and the obligations undertaken herein shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successors or assigns of Employer, and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Executives heirs, executors, administrators, and legal representatives. Executive shall not be entitled to assign or delegate any of Executives obligations or rights under this Agreement;
3.6
             
No Assignment; Binding Effect; No Attachment
.
provided, however, that nothing in this Section 3.6 shall preclude Executive from designating a beneficiary to receive any benefit payable under this Agreement upon Executives death. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or required by applicable law, no right to receive payments under this Agreement shall be subject to anticipation, commutation, alienation, sale, assignment, encumbrance, charge, pledge or hypothecation or to execution, attachment, levy, or similar process or assignment by operation of law, and any attempt, voluntary or involuntary, to effect any such action shall be null, void and of no effect.
 
The headings of paragraphs and sections herein are included solely for convenience of reference and shall not control the meaning or interpretation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
3.7
.
           
Headings
Employer and Executive intend all provisions of this Agreement to be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law. Accordingly, if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that the scope and/or operation of any provision of this Agreement is too broad to be enforced as written, Employer and Executive intend that the court should reform such provision to such narrower scope and/or operation as it determines to be enforceable. If, however, any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid, or unenforceable under present or future law, and not subject to reformation, then (i) such provision shall be fully severable, (ii) this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such provision was never a part of this Agreement, and (iii) the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by illegal, invalid, or unenforceable provisions or by their severance.
3.8
.
          
Severability
The parties intend that this Agreement and the performance hereunder and all suits and special proceedings hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with and under and pursuant to the laws of the State of North Carolina without regard to conflicts of law principles thereof and that in any action, special proceeding or other proceeding that may be brought arising out of, in connection with, or by reason of this Agreement, the laws of the State of North Carolina shall be applicable and shall govern to the exclusion of the law of any other forum. Any action, special proceeding or other proceeding with respect to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in the federal or state courts of the State of North Carolina, and by execution and delivery of this Agreement, Executive and Employer irrevocably consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of those courts and Executive hereby submits to personal jurisdiction in the State of North Carolina. Executive and Employer irrevocably waive any objection, including any objection based on lack of jurisdiction, improper venue or forum non conveniens, which either may now or hereafter have to the bringing of any action or proceeding in such jurisdiction in respect to this Agreement or any transaction related hereto. Executive and Employer acknowledge and agree that any service of legal process by mail in the manner provided for notices under this Agreement constitutes proper legal service of process under applicable law in any action or proceeding under or in respect to this Agreement.
3.9
         
Governing Law
.
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
3.10
.
       
Counterparts
 
Employer shall deduct and withhold all federal, state, local and employment taxes and any other similar sums required by applicable law, or in accordance with the applicable provisions of Employers employee benefit plans, to be withheld from any payments made pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
3.11
         
Withholding
.
. Wherever used in this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the Recitals, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below (unless otherwise indicated by the context) and such meanings shall be applicable to both the singular and plural form (except where otherwise expressly indicated):
3.12
         
Definitions
means a Person or person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, another Person or person.
a.
                 
Affiliate
 means the banking business, which business includes, but is not limited to, the consumer, savings, and commercial banking business; the trust business; the savings and loan business; and the mortgage banking business.
b.
                 
Business
shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in BB&Ts 2012 Incentive Plan, as in effect on the Effective Date.
c.
                  
Change of Control
means the period commencing on the date of a Change of Control and concluding on the second anniversary thereof.
d.
                 
Change of Control Period
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and rules and regulations issued thereunder.
e.
Code
                  
means the first day of the calendar month next following the month in which Executives Termination Date occurs.
f.
                  
Commencement Month
means the time period commencing with the Commencement Month and ending on the date that coincides with the expiration of the thirty-six (36) consecutive month period which began with the Commencement Month or, if the Term had previously been fixed by the Employee to a definite three- (3-) year period, the expiration of the remaining period in such fixed Term.
g.
                 
Compensation Continuance Period
means the twelve (12) consecutive month period beginning with the Commencement Month and, thereafter, beginning with each annual anniversary of the Commencement Month.
h.
                 
Computation Period
means all non-public information that has been created, discovered, obtained, developed or otherwise become known to Employer or their Affiliates other than through public sources, including, but not limited to, all competitively-sensitive information, all inventions, processes, data, computer programs, software, databases, know-how, digital intellectual property, marketing plans, business and sales plans and strategies, training programs and procedures, acquisition prospects, customer lists, diagrams and charts and similar items, depositor lists, clients lists, credit information, budgets, projections, new products, information covered by the Trade Secrets Protection Act, N.C. Gen. Stat., Chapter 66, 152 to
i.
                   
Confidential Information
 
 
162, and other information owned by the Employer or their Affiliates which is not public information.
means the excise tax on excess parachute payments under Section 4999 of the Code (or any successor or similar provision thereof), including any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax.
k.
                 
Excise Tax
means the BB&T Corporation Pension Plan, a tax qualified defined benefit pension plan, as the same may either be amended from time to time or terminated
l.
                   
Pension Plan
means any individual, person, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, corporation, company, firm, group or other entity.
m.
               
Person
means the continental United States.
n.
Restricted Area
                 
and means voluntary termination by Executive of Executives employment with Employer upon satisfaction of the requirements for early retirement or normal retirement under the Pension Plan.
o.
Retirement
                 
retires
means a monthly cash amount equal to one-twelfth (/12) of the average annual cash compensation received (including cash bonuses and other cash-based compensation, including for these purposes amounts earned or payable whether or not deferred) by Executive during the three (3) calendar years immediately preceding the calendar year in which Executives Termination Date occurs. In no event shall Executives Termination Compensation include equity-based compensation (e.g., income realized as a result of Executives exercise of non-qualified stock options or other stock based benefits).
p.
                 
Termination Compensation
1
th
means the date Executives employment with Employer is terminated, and which termination is a separation from service within the meaning of Section 409A.
q.
                 
Termination Date
means the calendar year in which Executives Termination Date occurs.
r.
                  
Termination Year
means the United States Department of the Treasury.
s.
Treasury
                  
.
3.13
         
Code Section 409a
To the extent applicable, the parties hereto intend that this Agreement comply with Section 409A of the Code and all regulations, guidance, or other interpretative authority thereunder () or an exemption or exclusion therefrom. The parties hereby agree that this Agreement shall be construed in a manner to comply with Section 409A and that should any provision be found not in compliance with Section 409A, the parties are hereby contractually obligated to execute any and all amendments to this Agreement deemed necessary and required by legal counsel for Employer to achieve compliance with Section 409A. By execution and delivery of this Agreement, Executive irrevocably waives any objections Executive may have to the amendments required by Section 409A.
a.
                 
In General.
Section 409A
 
. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, if at the time of Executives separation from service (as defined in Section 409A) Executive is a specified employee (within the meaning of Section 409A and the Companys specified employee identification policy) and if any payment, reimbursement and/or in-kind benefit that constitutes nonqualified deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A) is deemed to be triggered by Executives separation from service, then, to the extent one or more exceptions to Section 409A are inapplicable (including, without limitation, the exception under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) relating to separation pay due to an involuntary separation from service and its requirement that installments must be paid no later than the last day of the second taxable year following the taxable year in which such an employee incurs the involuntary separation from service), all payments, reimbursements, and in-kind benefits that constitute nonqualified deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A) to Executive shall not be paid or provided to Executive during the six- (6-) month period following Executives separation from service, and (i) such postponed payment and/or reimbursement/in-kind amounts shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum within thirty (30) days after the date that is six (6) months following Executives separation from service; (ii) any amounts payable to Executive after the expiration of such six- (6-) month period shall continue to be paid to Executive in accordance with the terms of the Employment Agreement; and (iii) to the extent that any group hospitalization plan, health care plan, dental care plan, life or other insurance or death benefit plan, and any other present or future similar group executive benefit plan or program or any lump sum cash out thereof is nonqualified deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A), Executive shall pay for such benefits from his Termination Date until the first day of the seventh month following the month of Executives separation from service, at which time the Company shall reimburse Executive for such payments. If Executive dies during such six- (6-) month period and prior to the payment of such postponed amounts of nonqualified deferred compensation, only the amount of nonqualified deferred compensation equal to the number of whole months that Executive lived shall be paid in a lump sum to Executives estate or, if applicable, to Executives designated beneficiary within thirty (30) days after the date of Executives death.
b.
                 
Specified Employee
. Notwithstanding any other provision of the applicable plans and programs, all reimbursements and in-kind benefits provided under this Agreement shall be made or provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A, including, where applicable, the requirement that (i) the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement and the provision of benefits in kind during a calendar year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement or the provision of in-kind benefits in any other calendar year; (ii) the reimbursement for an eligible expense will be made on or before the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the expense is incurred; (iii) the right to reimbursement or right to in-kind benefit is not subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit; and (iv) each reimbursement payment or provision of in-kind benefit shall be one of a series of separate payments (and each shall be construed as a separate identified payment) for purposes of Section 409A.
c.
                  
Reimbursements and In-Kind Benefits
. All payments to be made to Executive upon a termination of employment may only be made upon a separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A) of Executive; and phrases in this Agreement such as termination of employment, Executives termination, terminated, and similar phrases
d.
                 
Miscellaneous Section 409A Compliance
 
shall mean a separation from service within the meaning of Section 409A. For purposes of Section 409A, (i) each payment made under this Agreement shall be treated as a separate payment; (ii) Executive may not, directly or indirectly, designate the calendar year of payment; and (iii) no acceleration of the time and form of payment of any nonqualified deferred compensation to Executive, or any portion thereof, shall be permitted. 
. In the event any dispute shall arise between Executive and Employer as to the terms or interpretations of this Agreement, whether instituted by formal legal proceedings or otherwise, including any action taken by Executive to enforce the terms of this Agreement or in defending against any action taken by Employer, Employer shall reimburse Executive for all reasonable costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys fees, arising from such dispute, proceeding or action, if Executive shall prevail in any action initiated by Executive or shall have acted reasonably and in good faith in defending against any action initiated by Employer. Such reimbursement shall be paid within ten (10) days of Executives furnishing to Employer written evidence, which may be in the form, among other things, of a cancelled check or receipt, of any costs or expenses incurred by Executive. Any such request for reimbursement by Executive shall be made no more frequently than at sixty (60) day intervals.
3.14
         
Attorneys Fees
To the extent permitted by applicable law, all obligations of the Employer under this Agreement shall be joint and several.
3.15
         
Joint And Several Obligations
.
Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, Executive and Employer agree that shall the present value of all payments, distributions and benefits provided (including, without limitation, the acceleration of exercisability of any stock option) to Executive or for Executives benefit (whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable) pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise which constitute a parachute payment when aggregated with other payments, distributions, and benefits which constitute parachute payments, exceed two hundred ninety-nine percent (299%) of Executives base amount. As used herein,  has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code; and  has the meaning ascribed to it in Code Section 280G and the regulations. If the , as defined in Code Sections 280G(d)(4) and 1274(b)(2), of such aggregate parachute payments exceeds the 299% limitation set forth herein, such payments, distributions and benefits shall be reduced by Employer in accordance with the order of priority set forth below so that such reduced amount will result in no portion of the payments, distributions and benefits being subject to Excise Tax. All calculations required to be made under this Section 3.16 shall be made by any nationally recognized accounting firm which is BB&Ts outside auditor immediately prior to the event triggering the payment(s), distribution(s) and benefit(s) described above (the ). BB&T shall cause the Accounting Firm to provide detailed supporting calculations to BB&T and Executive. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by BB&T. Such payments, distributions and benefits will be reduced by Employer in accordance with the following order of priority: (i) , Full Credit Payments (as defined below) will be reduced in reverse chronological order such that the payment owed on the latest date following the occurrence of the event triggering the reduction will be the first payment to be reduced until such payment is reduced to zero, and then the payment owed on the next latest date following occurrence of the event triggering the reduction will be the second payment to be reduced until such payment is equal to zero, and so forth, until all such Full Credit Payments have been
3.16
         
No Excise Tax
.
in
no
event
parachute payment
base amount
present value
Accounting Firm
first
reduced to zero, and (ii) , Partial Credit Payments (as defined below) will be reduced in reverse chronological order in the same manner as Full Credit Payments are reduced.  means a payment, distribution or benefit, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise, that if reduced in value by one dollar ($1.00) reduces the amount of a parachute payment by one dollar ($1.00). Partial Credit Payment means a payment, distribution or benefit, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise, that if reduced in value by one dollar ($1.00) reduces the amount of a parachute payment by an amount that is less than one dollar ($1.00). For clarification purposes only, a  would include a stock option as to which vesting is accelerated upon an event that triggers the reduction, where the in the money value of the option exceeds the value of the option acceleration that is added to the parachute payment.
second
Full Credit Payment
Partial Credit Payment
 
The Recitals to this Agreement are a part of this Agreement.
3.17
         
Recitals
.
[The balance of this page is intentionally left blank.]
 
 
the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the Effective Date, but on the actual dates indicated below.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 


