FILE:JBL/JBL-8K-20060726164331.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On June 21, 2006, the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Commission that contained a copy of a Press Release issued by the Company on the same day in which the Company announced that it was planning to realign its manufacturing capacity. On July 20, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan to better align the Company's manufacturing capacity in certain higher cost geographies and to properly size its manufacturing sites with perceived current market conditions (the "Restructuring Plan"). The Restructuring Plan as discussed reflects the Company's intention only and that the restructuring decisions at certain foreign plants are still subject to consultation with the Company's employees and their representatives. Based on the analysis done to date, the Company currently expects to recognize approximately $200 to $250 million in pre-tax restructuring and impairment costs during the Company's fourth fiscal quarter of 2006 and over the course of fiscal years 2007 and 2008. A significant portion of these costs are currently expected to be recorded in the Company's operating results for the fiscal quarter ending August 31, 2006. The Company currently expects that a significant portion of the total restructuring costs will be related to employee benefit and severance arrangements. The charges related to the Restructuring Plan, excluding asset impairment charges, are currently expected to result in cash expenditures that will be payable over the course of the Company's fourth fiscal quarter of 2006 and over the course of fiscal years 2007 and 2008. The exact timing of these charges and cash outflows, as well as the estimated cost ranges by category type, have not been finalized. This information will be subject to the finalization of timetables for the transition of functions, consultation with employees and their representatives as well as the statutory severance requirements of the particular legal jurisdictions impacted, and the amount and timing of the actual charges may vary due to a variety of factors.
To the extent required by applicable rules, the Company will file one or more amendments to this Current Report on Form 8-K as details of the Restructuring Plan are refined and estimates of related costs and charges are finalized.
Item 2.06. Material Impairments.
In connection with the Restructuring Plan described in Item 2.05 above, the Company is performing an impairment assessment on certain long-term assets (including property, plant and equipment and net deferred tax assets) held by each facility impacted by the Restructuring Plan. Assets that are determined to be impaired will be written down to fair value. At this time, the Company is unable to make a final determination of the estimated range related to the impairment charges. However, to the extent required by applicable rules, the Company will file one or more amendments to this Current Report on Form 8-K or include such disclosures in future Forms 10-Q and 10-K as details of the Restructuring Plan are refined and estimates of the related costs and charges are finalized. The impairment charges ultimately recorded are not expected to result in material future cash expenditures.
Item 5.03. Amendments Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On July 20, 2006, the Board amended Section 4.1 of the Company's Bylaws to expressly permit Board committees to consist of one member. A copy of the Company's Bylaws, as amended, is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 3.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 3.2
 
 
 
REGISTERED OFFICE
The registered office of the corporation shall be fixed in the Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation.
OTHER OFFICES
The board of directors may at any time establish branch or subordinate offices at any place or places where the corporation is qualified to do business.
PLACE OF MEETINGS
Meetings of stockholders shall be held at any place within or outside the State of Delaware designated by the board of directors. In the absence of any such designation, stockholders' meetings shall be held at the registered office of the corporation.
ANNUAL MEETING
The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held each year on a date and at a time designated by the board of directors. In the absence of such designation, the annual meeting of stockholders shall be held at 9:00 a.m. on the first Thursday of the fourth calendar month after the end of the corporation's fiscal year. However, if such day falls on a legal holiday, then the meeting shall be held at the same time and place on the next succeeding full business day. At the meeting, directors shall be elected, and any other proper business may be transacted.
SPECIAL MEETING
A special meeting of the stockholders may be called at any time by the board of directors, or by the chairman of the board, or by the president, or by one or more stockholders holding shares in the aggregate entitled to cast not less than a majority of the votes at that meeting.
If a special meeting is requested by any person or persons other than the board of directors or the president or the chairman of the board, then the request shall be in writing, specifying the general nature of the business proposed to be transacted, and shall be delivered personally or sent by registered mail or by telegraphic or other facsimile transmission to the chairman of the board, the president, any vice president or the secretary of the corporation. No business may be transacted at such special meeting otherwise than specified in such notice. The board of directors shall determine the time and place of such special meeting, which shall be held not less than 35 nor more than 120
 
days after the receipt of the request. Upon determination of the time and the place of the meeting, the officer receiving the request shall cause notice to be given to the stockholders entitled to vote, in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.4 of these bylaws. If the notice is not given within 61 days after the receipt of the request, the person or persons requesting the meeting may set the time and place of the meeting and give the notice. Nothing contained in this paragraph of this Section 2.3 shall be construed as limiting, fixing or affecting the time when a meeting of stockholders called by action of the board of directors may be held.
NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS
All notices of meetings of stockholders shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 2.5 of these bylaws not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting. The notice shall specify the place, date, and hour of the meeting and (i) in the case of a special meeting, the general nature of the business to be transacted (no business other than that specified in the notice may be transacted) or (ii) in the case of the annual meeting, those matters which the board of directors, at the time of giving the notice, intends to present for action by the stockholders (but any proper matter may be presented at the meeting for such action). The notice of any meeting at which directors are to be elected shall include the name of any nominee or nominees who, at the time of the notice, the board intends to present for election.
MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE; AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE
Written notice of any meeting of stockholders shall be given either personally or by first-class mail or by telegraphic or other written communication. Notices not personally delivered shall be sent charges prepaid and shall be addressed to the stockholder at the address of that stockholder appearing on the books of the corporation or given by the stockholder to the corporation for the purpose of notice. If no such address appears on the corporation's books or is given, notice shall be deemed to have been given if sent to that stockholder by mail or telegraphic or other written communication to the corporation's principal executive office, or if published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county where that office is located. Notice shall be deemed to have been given at the time when delivered personally or deposited in the mail or sent by telegram or either means of written communication.
If any notice addressed to a stockholder at the address of that stockholder appearing on the books of the corporation is returned to the corporation by the United States Postal Service marked to indicate that the United States Postal Service is unable to deliver the notice to the stockholder at that address, then all future notices or reports shall be deemed to have been duly given without further mailing if the same shall be available to the stockholder on written demand of the stockholder at the principal executive office of the corporation for a period of one (1) year from the date of the giving of the notice.
An affidavit of the mailing or other means of giving any notice of any stockholders' meeting, executed by the secretary, assistant secretary or any transfer agent of the corporation giving the notice, shall be prima facie evidence of the giving of such notice.
QUORUM
The presence in person or by proxy of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereat constitutes a quorum for the transaction of business at all meetings of stockholders. The stockholders present at a duly called or held meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken (other than adjournment) is approved by at least a majority of the shares required to constitute a quorum.
 
ADJOURNED MEETING; NOTICE
Any stockholders' meeting, annual or special, whether or not a quorum is present, may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of the majority of the shares represented at that meeting, either in person or by proxy. In the absence of a quorum, no other business may be transacted at that meeting except as provided in Section 2.6 of these bylaws.
When any meeting of stockholders, either annual or special, is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. However, if a new record date for the adjourned meeting is fixed or if the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days from the date set for the original meeting, then notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given. Notice of any such adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.4 and 2.5 of these bylaws. At any adjourned meeting the corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
VOTING
The stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.11 of these bylaws, subject to the provisions of Sections 217 and 218 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware (relating to voting rights of fiduciaries, pledgors and joint owners, and to voting trusts and other voting agreements).
Except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each outstanding share, regardless of class, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote of the stockholders. Any stockholder entitled to vote on any matter may vote part of the shares in favor of the proposal and refrain from voting the remaining shares or, except when the matter is the election of directors, may vote them against the proposal; but, if the stockholder fails to specify the number of shares which the stockholder is voting affirmatively, it will be conclusively presumed that the stockholder's approving vote is with respect to all shares which the stockholder is entitled to vote.
If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of the majority of the shares represented and voting at a duly held meeting (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute at least a majority of the required quorum) shall be the act of the stockholders, unless the vote of a greater number or a vote by classes is required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation.
VALIDATION OF MEETINGS; WAIVER OF NOTICE; CONSENT
The transactions of any meeting of stockholders, either annual or special, however called and noticed, and wherever held, shall be as valid as though they had been taken at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present either in person or by proxy, and if, either before or after the meeting, each person entitled to vote, who was not present in person or by proxy, signs a written waiver of notice or a consent to the holding of the meeting or an approval of the minutes thereof. The waiver of notice or consent or approval need not specify either the business to be transacted or the purpose of any annual or special meeting of stockholders. All such waivers, consents, and approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
Attendance by a person at a meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice of and presence at that meeting, except when the person objects at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Attendance at a meeting is not a waiver of any right to object to the consideration of matters required by law to be included in the notice of the meeting but not so included, if that objection is expressly made at the meeting.
 
STOCKHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, any action which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders maybe taken without a meeting and without prior notice, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, is signed by the holders of outstanding shares having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take that action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote on that action were present and voted.
Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing. If the action which is consented to is such as would have required the filing of a certificate under any section of the General Corporation Law of Delaware if such action had been voted on by stockholders at a meeting thereof, then the certificate filed under such section shall state, in lieu of any statement required by such section concerning any vote of stockholders, that written notice and written consent have been given as provided in Section 228 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such action by written consent may be taken following the effectiveness of the registration of any class of securities of the corporation under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
RECORD DATE FOR STOCKHOLDER NOTICE; VOTING; GIVING CONSENTS
For purposes of determining the stockholders entitled to notice of any meeting or to vote thereat or entitled to give consent to corporate action without a meeting, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days before the date of any such meeting nor more than sixty (60) days before any such action without a meeting, and in such event only stockholders of record on the date so fixed are entitled to notice and to vote or to give consents, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date.
If the board of directors does not so fix a record date:
the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and
the record date for determining stockholders entitled to give consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the board has been taken, shall be the day on which the first written consent is given.
The record date for any other purpose shall be as provided in Article VIII of these bylaws.
PROXIES
Every person entitled to vote for directors, or on any other matter, shall have the right to do so either in person or by one or more agents authorized by a written proxy signed by the person and filed with the secretary of the corporation, or by the transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, any other means of electronic transmission, or any other acceptable means under the Delaware General Corporate Laws, to the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder.
 
Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of such writing or transmission may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that any such reproduction is a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission. However, no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A proxy shall be deemed signed if the stockholder's name is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic transmission or otherwise) by the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney-in-fact. The revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the provisions of Section 212 (c) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
INSPECTORS OF ELECTION
Before any meeting of stockholders, the board of directors may appoint an inspector or inspectors of election to act at the meeting or its adjournment. If no inspector of election is so appointed, then the chairman of the meeting may, and on the request of any stockholder or a stockholder's proxy shall, appoint an inspector or inspectors of election to act at the meeting. The number of inspectors shall be either one (1) or three (3) If inspectors are appointed at a meeting pursuant to the request of one (1) or more stockholders or proxies, then the holders of a majority of shares or their proxies present at the meeting shall determine whether one (1) or three (3) inspectors are to be appointed. If any person appointed as inspector fails to appear or fails or refuses to act, then the chairman of the meeting may, and upon the request of any stockholder or a stockholder's proxy shall, appoint a person to fill that vacancy.
Such inspectors shall:
(a) determine the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the number of shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the authenticity, validity, and effect of proxies;
receive votes, ballots or consents;
hear and determine all challenges and questions in any way arising in connection with the right to vote;
count and tabulate all votes or consents;
determine when the polls shall close;
determine the result; and
do any other acts that may be proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all stockholders.
POWERS
Subject to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware and to any limitations in the Certificate of Incorporation or these bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the stockholders or by the outstanding shares, the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the board of directors.
 
NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
The board of directors shall consist of nine (9) persons until changed by a proper amendment of this Section 3.2.
No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director before that director's term of office expires.
ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE OF DIRECTORS
Except as provided in Section 3.4 of these bylaws, directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders to hold office until the next annual meeting. Each director, including a director elected to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected and until a successor has been elected and qualified.
RESIGNATION AND VACANCIES
Any director may resign effective on giving written notice to the chairman of the board, the president, the secretary or the board of directors, unless the notice specifies a later time for that resignation to become effective. If the resignation of a director is effective at a future time, the board of directors may elect a successor to take office when the resignation becomes effective.
Vacancies in the board of directors may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director; however, a vacancy created by the removal of a director by the vote or written consent of the stockholders or by court order may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented and voting at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute a majority of the required quorum), or by the unanimous written consent of all shares entitled to vote thereon. Each director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified.
Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these bylaws:
Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors elected by all of the stockholders having the right to vote as a single class may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.
Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by a sole remaining director so elected.
If at any time, by reason of death or resignation or other cause, the corporation should have no directors in office, then any officer or any stockholder or an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of a stockholder, or other fiduciary entrusted with like responsibility for the person or estate of a stockholder, may call a special meeting of stockholders in accordance with the provisions of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, or may apply to the Court of Chancery for a decree summarily ordering an election as provided in Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
If, at the time of filling any vacancy or any newly created directorship, the directors then in office constitute less than a majority of the whole board (as constituted immediately prior to any
 
such increase), then the Court of Chancery may, upon application or any stockholder or stockholders holding at least ten (10) percent of the total number of the shares at the time outstanding having the right to vote for such directors, summarily order an election to be held to fill any such vacancies or newly created directorships, or to replace the directors chosen by the directors then in office as aforesaid, which election shall be governed by the provisions of Section 217 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware as far as applicable.
PLACE OF MEETINGS; MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE
Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held at any place within or outside the State of Delaware that has been designated from time to time by resolution of the board. In the absence of such a designation, regular meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation. Special meetings of the board may be held at any place within or outside the State of Delaware that has been designated in the notice of the meeting or, if not stated in the notice or if there is no notice, at the principal executive office of the corporation.
Any meeting, regular or special, may be held by conference telephone or similar communication equipment, so long as all directors participating in the meeting can hear one another: and all such directors shall be deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
FIRST MEETINGS
The first meeting of each newly elected board of directors shall be held at such time and place as shall be fixed by the vote of the stockholders at the annual meeting and no notice of such meeting shall be necessary to the newly elected directors in order legally to constitute the meeting, provided a quorum shall be present. In the event of the failure of the stockholders to fix the time or place of such first meeting of the newly elected board of directors, or in the event such meeting is not held at the time and place so fixed by the stockholders, the meeting may be held at such time and place as shall be specified in a notice given as hereinafter provided for special meetings of the board of directors, or as shall be specified in a written waiver signed by all of the directors.
REGULAR MEETINGS
Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held without notice if the times of such meetings are fixed by the board of directors.
SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE
Special meetings of the board of directors for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the chairman of the board, the president, any vice president, the secretary or any two directors.
Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be delivered personally or by telephone to each director or sent by first-class mail or telegram, charges prepaid, addressed to each director at that director's address as it is shown on the records of the corporation. If the notice is mailed, it shall be deposited in the United States Mail at least four (4) days before the time of the holding of the meeting. If the notice is delivered personally or by telephone or telegram, it shall be delivered personally or by telephone or to the telegraph company at least forty-eight (48) hours before the time of the holding of the meeting. Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director. The notice need not specify the purpose or the place of the meeting, if the meeting is to be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.
 
QUORUM
A majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except to adjourn as provided in Section 3.10 of these bylaws. Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the directors present at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present shall be regarded as the act of the board of directors, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law.
A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for that meeting.
WAIVER OF NOTICE
Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director (i) who signs a waiver of notice or a consent to holding the meeting or an approval of the minutes thereof, whether before or after the meeting, or (ii) who attends the meeting without protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of notice to such directors. All such waivers, consent, and approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made part of the minutes of the meeting. A waiver of notice need not specify the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the board of directors.
ADJOURNMENT
A majority of the directors present, whether or not constituting a quorum, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place.
NOTICE OF ADJOURNMENT
Notice of the time and place of holding an adjourned meeting need not be given unless the meeting is adjourned for more ,than twenty-four (24) hours. If the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24) hours, then notice of the time and place of the adjourned meeting shall be given before the adjourned meeting takes place, in the manner specified in Section 3.8 of these bylaws, to the directors who ware not present at the time of the adjournment.
BOARD ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the board of directors may be taken without a meeting, provided that all members of the board individually or collectively consent in writing to that action. Such action by written consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote of the board of directors. Such written consent and any counterparts thereof shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the board.
FEES AND COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services and such reimbursement of expenses as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the board of directors. This Section 3.14 shall not be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee or otherwise and receiving compensation for those services.
 
APPROVAL OF LOANS TO OFFICERS
The corporation may land money to, or guarantee any obligation of, or otherwise assist any officer or other employee of the corporation or of its subsidiary, including any officer or employee who is a director of the corporation or its subsidiary, whenever, in the judgment of the directors, such loan, guaranty or assistance may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation. The loan, guaranty or other assistance may be with or without interest and may be unsecured, or secured in such manner as the board of directors shall approve, including, without limitation a pledge of shares of stock of the corporation. Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to deny, limit or restrict the powers of guaranty or warranty of the corporation at common law or under any statute.
CHAIRMAN
At all meetings of the board of directors, the Chairman of the board of directors shall, when present, preside as Chairman at all meetings of the stockholders and board of directors. The Chairman may call meetings of the stockholders and board of directors and of the committees of the board of directors whenever he shall deem it necessary. The Chairman shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the board of directors.
VICE CHAIRMAN
In the absence of, or in the case of a vacancy in the office of, the Chairman of the board of directors, the Vice Chairman of the board of directors shall preside as chairman at meetings of the stockholders and board of directors or, if both the Chairman of the board of directors and Vice Chairman of the board of directors are absent, a chairman selected by the remaining directors, shall preside over such meetings. The Vice Chairman shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the board of directors.
COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS
The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the authorized number of directors, designate one (1) or more committees, each consisting of one or more directors, to serve at the pleasure of the board. The board may designate one (1) or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent member at any meeting of the committee. The
 
appointment of members or alternate members of a committee requires the vote of a majority of the authorized number of directors. Any committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the board, shall have all the authority of the board, but no such committee shall have the power or authority to (i) amend the certificate of incorporation (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the board of directors as provided in Section 151(a) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, fix any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the corporation or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the corporation), (ii) adopt an agreement of merger or consolidation under Sections 251 or 252 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, (iii) recommend to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation's property and assets, (iv) recommend to the stockholders a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or (v) amend the bylaws of the corporation: and, unless the board resolution establishing the committee, the bylaws or the Certificate of Incorporation expressly so provide, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend, to authorize the issuance of stock, or to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
MEETINGS AND ACTION OF COMMITTEES
Meetings and actions of committees shall be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the provisions of Article III of these bylaws, Section 3.5 (place of meetings), Section 3.7 (regular meetings), Section 3.8 (special meetings and notice), Section 3.9 (quorum), Section 3.10 (waiver of notice), Section 3.11 (adjournment) , Section 3.12 (notice of adjournment), and Section 3.13 (action without meeting), with such changes in the context of those bylaws as are necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the board of directors and its members; provided, however, that the time of regular meetings of committees may be determined either by resolution of the board of directors or by resolution of the committee, that special meetings of committees may also be called by resolution of the board of directors, and that notice of special meetings of committees shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall have the right to attend all meetings of the committee. The board of directors may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these bylaws.
OFFICERS
The officers of the corporation shall be a president, a secretary and a treasurer. The corporation may also have, at the discretion of the board of directors, a president, one or more vice presidents, one or more assistant secretaries, one or more assistant treasurers, and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of section 5.3 of these bylaws. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
 
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The officers of the corporation, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 or Section 5.5 of these bylaws, shall be chosen by the board, subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment.
SUBORDINATE OFFICERS
The board of directors may appoint, or may empower the president to appoint, such other officers as the business of the corporation may require, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority, and perform such duties as are provided in these bylaws or as the board of directors may from time to time determine.
REMOVAL AND RESIGNATION OF OFFICERS
Subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment, any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the board of directors at any regular or special meeting of the board or, except in case of an officer chosen by the board of directors, by any officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the board of directors.
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the corporation. Any resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of that notice or at any later time specified in that notice: and, unless otherwise specified in that notice, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any resignation is without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the corporation under any contract to which the officer is a party.
VACANCIES IN OFFICES
A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed in these bylaws for regular appointments to that office.
DELETED
PRESIDENT
Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the board of directors to the chairman of the board, if there be such an officer, the president shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall, subject to the control of the board of directors, have general supervision, direction, and control of the business and the officers of the corporation. He or she shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and, in the absence or nonexistence of a chairman of the board, at all meetings of the board of directors. He or she shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president of a corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these bylaws.
VICE PRESIDENTS
In the absence or disability of the president, the vice presidents, if any, in order of their rank as fixed by the board of directors or, if not ranked, a vice president designated by the board of directors, shall perform all the duties of the president and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the president. The vice presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as-from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the board of directors, these bylaws, the president or the chairman of the board.
 
SECRETARY
The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or such other place as the' board of directors may direct, a book of minutes of ail meetings and actions of directors, committees of directors and stockholders. The minutes shall show the time and place of each meeting, whether regular or special (and, if special, how authorized and the notice given), the names of those present at directors' meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at stockholders' meetings, and the proceedings thereof.
The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the board of directors, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all stockholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates evidencing such shares, and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the board of directors required to be given by law or by these bylaws. He or she shall keep the seal of the corporation, if one be adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or by these bylaws.
TREASURER
The treasurer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings and shares. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director.
The treasurer shall deposit all money and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositaries as may be designated by the board of directors. He or she shall disburse the funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the board of directors, shall render to the president and .directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his or her transactions as treasurer and of the financial condition of the corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these bylaws.
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
The corporation shall, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware, indemnify each of its directors and officers against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding, arising by reason of the fact that such person is or was an agent of the corporation. For purposes of this Section 6.1, a "director" or "officer" of the corporation includes any person (i) who is or was a director or officer of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was a director or officer of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
 
INDEMNIFICATION OF OTHERS
The corporation shall have the power, to the maximum extent arid in the manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware, to indemnify each of its employees and agents (other than directors and officers) against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding, arising by reason of the fact that such person is or was an agent of the corporation. For purposes of this Section 6.2, an "employee" or "agent" of the corporation (other than a director or officer) includes any person (i) who is or was an employee or agent of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as an employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was an employee or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
INSURANCE
The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS
The corporation shall, either at its principal executive office or at such place or places as designated by the board of directors, keep a record of its stockholders listing their names and addresses and the number and class of shares held by each stockholder, a copy of these bylaws as amended to date, accounting books and other records.
Any stockholder of record, in person or by attorney or other agent, shall, upon written demand under oath stating the purpose thereof, have the right during the usual hours for business to inspect for any proper purpose the corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders, and its other books and records and to make copies or extracts therefrom. A proper purpose shall mean a purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as a stockholder. In every instance where an attorney or other agent is the person who seeks the right to inspection, the demand under oath shall be accompanied by a power of attorney or such other writing that authorizes the attorney or other agent to so act on behalf of the stockholder. The demand under oath shall be directed to the corporation at its registered office in Delaware or at its principal place of business.
The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of a corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and shooting the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to beheld, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not
 
so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof,-and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
INSPECTION BY DIRECTORS
Any director shall have the right to examine the corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders and its other books and records for a purpose reasonably related to his or her position as a director. The Court of Chancery is hereby vested with the exclusive jurisdiction to determine whether a director is entitled to the inspection sought. The Court may summarily order the corporation to permit the director to inspect any and all books and records, the stock ledger, and the stock list and to make copies or extracts therefrom. The Court may, in its discretion, prescribe any limitations or conditions with reference to the inspection, or award such other and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper.
ANNUAL STATEMENT TO STOCKHOLDERS
The board of directors shall present at each annual meeting, and at any special meeting of the stockholders when called for by vote of the stockholders, a full and clear statement of the business and condition of the corporation.
REPRESENTATION OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS
The chairman of the board, the president, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the secretary or assistant secretary of this corporation, or any other person authorized by the board of directors or the president or a vice president, is authorized to vote, represent, and exercise on behalf of this corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of this corporation. The authority herein granted may be exercised either by such person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by proxy or power of attorney duly executed by such person having the authority.
RECORD DATE FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN NOTICE AND VOTING
For purposes of determining the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other lawful action (other than action by stockholders by written consent without a meeting), the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days before any such action. In that case, only stockholders of record at the close of business on the date so fixed are entitled to receive the dividend, distribution or allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date so fixed, except as otherwise provided by law.
If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, then the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board adopts the applicable resolution or the sixtieth (60th) day before the date of that action, whichever is later.
 
CHECKS; DRAFTS; EVIDENCES OF INDEBTEDNESS
From time to time, the board of directors shall determine by resolution which person or persons may sign or endorse all checks, drafts, other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued in the name of or payable to the corporation, and only the persons so authorized shall sign or endorse those instruments.
CORPORATE CONTRACTS AND INSTRUMENTS; HOW EXECUTED
The board of directors, except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, may authorize any officer or officers, or agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation; such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized or ratified by the board of directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
STOCK CERTIFICATES; PARTY PAID SHARES
The shares of a corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the board of directors of the corporation may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the board of directors, every holder of stock represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the corporation by, the chairman or vice-chairman of the board of directors, or the president or vice-president, and by the chief financial officer, the treasurer, the secretary or an assistant secretary of such corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
The corporation may issue the whole or any part of its shares as partly paid and subject to call for the remainder of the consideration to be paid therefor. Upon the face or back of each stock certificate issued to represent any such partly paid shares, upon the books and records of the corporation in the case of uncertificated partly paid shares, the total amount of the consideration to be paid therefor and the amount paid thereon shall be stated. Upon the declaration of any dividend on fully paid shares, the corporation shall declare a dividend upon partly paid shares of the same class, but only upon the basis of the percentage of the consideration actually paid thereon.
SPECIAL DESIGNATION ON CERTIFICATES
If the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, then the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate that the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stocks provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in Section 202 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, in lieu of the foregoing requirements there may be met forth on the face or back of the certificate that the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
 
LOST CERTIFICATES
Except as provided in this section 8.6, no new certificates for shares shall be issued to replace a previously issued certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the corporation and cancelled at the same time. The board of directors may, in case any share certificate or certificate for any other security is lost, stolen or destroyed, authorize the issuance of replacement certificates on such terms and conditions as the board may require; the board may require indemnification of the corporation secured by a bond or other adequate security sufficient to protect the corporation against any claim that may be made against it, including any expense or liability, on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of the certificate or the issuance of the replacement certificate.
CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS
Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction, and definitions in the General Corporation Law of Delaware shall govern the construction of these bylaws. Without limiting the generality of this provision, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, and the term person includes both a corporation and a natural person.
The original or other bylaws of the corporation may be adopted, amended or repealed by the stockholders entitled to vote; provided, however, that the corporation may, in its Certificate of Incorporation, confer the power to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws upon the directors. The fact that such power has been so conferred upon the directors shall not divest the stockholders of the power, .nor limit their power to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws.
If it should be deemed advisable in the judgment of the board of directors of the corporation that the corporation should be dissolved, the board, after the adoption of a resolution to that effect by a majority of the whole board at any meeting called for that purpose, shall cause notice to be mailed to each stockholder entitled to vote thereon of the adoption of the resolution and of a meeting of stockholders to take action upon the resolution.
At the meeting a vote shall be taken for and against the proposed dissolution. If a majority of the outstanding stock of the corporation entitled to vote thereon votes for the proposed dissolution, then a certificate stating that the dissolution has been authorized in accordance with the provisions of Section 275 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware and setting forth the names and residences of the directors and officers shall be executed, acknowledged, and filed and shall become effective in accordance with Section 103 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware. Upon such certificates becoming effective in accordance with Section 103 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the corporation shall be dissolved.
Whenever all the stockholders entitled to vote on a dissolution consent in writing, either in person or by .duly authorized attorney, to a dissolution, no meeting of directors or stockholders shall be necessary. The consent shall be filed and shall become effective in accordance with Section 103 of
 
the General Corporation Law of Delaware. Upon such consents becoming effective in accordance with Section 103 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the corporation shall be dissolved if the consent is signed by an attorney, then the original power of attorney or a photocopy thereof shall be attached to and filed with the consent. The consent filed with the Secretary of State shall have attached to it the affidavit of the secretary or some other officer of the corporation stating that the consent has been signed by or on behalf of all the stockholders entitled to vote on a dissolution; in addition, there shall be attached to the consent a certification by the secretary or some other officer of the corporation setting forth the names and residences of the directors and officers of the corporation.
APPOINTMENT OF A CUSTODIAN IN CERTAIN CASES
The Court of Chancery, upon application of any stockholder, may appoint one or more persons to be custodians and, if the corporation is insolvent, to be receivers, of and for the corporation when:
at any meeting held for the election of directors the stockholders are so divided that they have failed to elect successors to directors whose terms have expired or-would have expired upon qualification of their successors; or
the business of the corporation is suffering or is threatened with irreparable injury because the directors are so divided respecting the management of the affairs of the corporation that the required vote for action by the board of directors cannot be obtained and the stockholders are unable to terminate this division or
the corporation has abandoned its business and has failed within a reasonable time to take steps to dissolve, liquidate or distribute its assets.
DUTIES OF CUSTODIAN
The custodian shall have all the powers and title of a receiver appointed under Section 291 of the General-Corporation Law of Delaware, but the authority of the custodian shall be to continue the business of the corporation and not to liquidate its affairs and distribute its assets, except when the Court of Chancery otherwise orders and except in cases arising under Sections 226(a)(3) or 352(a)(2) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
 


