FILE:JBL/JBL-8K-20071227084544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On December 20, 2007, Jabil Circuit, Inc. (the "Company") amended (the "Amendment") its existing bridge credit facility that it entered into as of December 21, 2006 (the "Bridge Facility"). As a result of the Amendment, (1) the termination date of the Bridge Facility was extended from December 20, 2007 to June 17, 2008, (2) the Bridge Facility was converted to a $200,000,000 revolving credit facility that is available only if the Company has fully drawn on the revolving credit portion of the Company's existing amended and restated five year unsecured credit facility dated as of July 19, 2007 (the "Credit Facility") and (3) as described below in the third paragraph, certain other portions of the Bridge Facility were also amended (the Bridge Facility, as so amended, shall be referred to herein as the "Amended Bridge Facility"). Also on December 20, 2007, the Company drew $400,000,000 on the revolving credit portion of the Credit Facility in order to pay down the full $400,000,000 outstanding under the term loan portion of the Bridge Facility.
Immediately following consummation of the transactions described above, the Company's debt obligations included no amounts outstanding under the Amended Bridge Facility, $545,000,000 outstanding under the revolving credit portion of the Credit Facility and $400,000,000 outstanding under the term loan portion of the Credit Facility (which was previously borrowed by the Company). Based on these amounts outstanding, the Company currently has $255,000,000 available under the revolving credit portion of the Credit Facility (which amount could be increased by up to $200,000,000 if agreed to by the lenders under the Credit Facility), and $200,000,000 available under the Amended Bridge Facility (which is only available to be drawn upon once the revolving credit portion of the Credit Facility is fully drawn).
The Amendment specifies that the proceeds of the revolving credit advances under the Amended Bridge Facility shall be used for general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. Pursuant to the Amendment, interest and fees on advances under the Amended Bridge Facility continue to be based on the Company's unsecured long-term indebtedness rating as determined by Standard & Poor's Rating Service and Moody's Investor Service. The interest rate has been increased, such that interest is charged at either a rate equal to 0.300% to 1.500% above the base rate or a rate equal to 1.300% to 2.500% above the Eurocurrency rate, where the base rate represents the greater of Citibank, N.A.'s prime rate or 0.50% plus the federal funds rate, and the Eurocurrency rate represents the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate, each as more fully defined in the Bridge Facility. The applicable interest rate, whether based on the base rate or the Eurocurrency rate, will be increased by 0.25% on and after March 20, 2008. Fees include extension fees payable on March 20, 2008 and unused commitment fees based on the amount of the lenders' commitments minus the principal amounts of any outstanding advances made by the lenders. Based on the Company's current unsecured long-term indebtedness rating as determined by Standard & Poor's Rating Service and Moody's Investor Service, the current rate of interest (excluding the unused commitment fees and other fees) on a Eurocurrency rate draw would be 0.500% above the base rate or 1.500% above the Eurocurrency rate, as defined above.
Citicorp North America, Inc. is the agent under the Amendment and the Bridge Facility, and one of its affiliates is the agent under the Credit Facility. Some or all of the lenders party to the Amendment and the Bridge Facility, and certain of their affiliates, have various other relationships with the Company and its subsidiaries involving the provision of financial services, including cash management, loans, letter of credit and bank guarantee facilities, investment banking and trust services. In addition, the Company and some of its subsidiaries have entered into foreign exchange contracts and other derivative arrangements with certain of the lenders and their affiliates.
The foregoing description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of: (i) the Amendment (a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.34 to this Current Report on Form 8-K), (ii) the Bridge Facility (a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 10.26 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for its 2006 fiscal year) and (iii) the Credit Facility (a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 10.33 to Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for its 2007 fiscal year).
 
The information included in Item 1.01 of this Report is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.34
among Jabil Circuit, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders parties to the Credit Agreement referred to below (collectively, the "") and Citicorp North America, Inc., as agent (the "") for the Lenders.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO THE BRIDGE CREDIT AGREEMENT
Borrower
Lenders
Agent
PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS:
(1) The Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent have entered into a Bridge Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2006, as amended by the Letter Amendment and Waiver dated as of January 11, 2007 and the Letter Amendment and Waiver dated as of May 2, 2007 (such Credit Agreement, as so amended, the ""). Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Amendment have the same meanings as specified in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
(2) The Borrower and the Lenders have agreed to further amend the Credit Agreement as hereinafter set forth.
SECTION 1. The Credit Agreement is, effective as of the date hereof and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 2, hereby amended as follows:
Amendments to Credit Agreement.
(a) The definitions of "", "" and "" in Section 1.01 are amended in full to read as follows:
Applicable Margin
Applicable Percentage
Termination Date
"" means as of any date, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below, that the Applicable Margin shall be increased on and after March 20, 2008 by 0.25% per annum:
Applicable Margin
provided
 
"" means, as of any date a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below, that the Applicable Percentage shall be increased on and after March 20, 2008 by 0.05% per annum:
Applicable Percentage
provided
"" means the earlier of June 17, 2008 and the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.04 or 6.01.
Termination Date
(b) Section 2.01 is amended by deleting therefrom the proviso at the end thereof.
(c) Section 2.03 is amended by adding to the end thereof a new clause (c) to read as follows:
(c) . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender on March 20, 2008 a fee equal to 0.625% of such Lender's Commitment in effect on such date.
Extension Fee
(d) Section 2.04(b) is deleted in full.
(e) Section 2.09(b) is deleted in full.
(f) Section 2.16 is amended in full to read as follows:
SECTION 2.16. . The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and the Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) solely for general corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Use of Proceeds
(g) Section 3.03(a) is amended by adding to the end thereof a new clause (iii) to read as follows:
(iii) the commitments of the lenders under the Borrower's Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of July 19, 2007 have been fully drawn.
(h) Section 4.01(e) is amended in full to read as follows:
(e) The Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at August 31, 2007, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of KPMG LLP, independent public accountants, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present, other than as disclosed to the Lenders prior to the date hereof, the Consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied. Since August 31, 2007, there has been no Material Adverse Change other than as disclosed to the Lenders prior to the date hereof.
 
(i) Section 4.01(i) is amended in full to read as follows:
(i) No information, exhibit or report furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Agent or any Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made therein not misleading, other than as disclosed to the Lenders prior to the date hereof.
(j) Schedule I is amended in full to read as set forth as Schedule A to this Amendment.
SECTION 2. . This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written when, and only when, on or before December 20, 2007 the Agent shall have received counterparts of this Amendment executed by the Borrower and all of the Lenders, and the Agent shall have additionally received all of the following documents, each such document (unless otherwise specified) dated the date of receipt thereof by the Agent (unless otherwise specified) and in sufficient copies for each Lender, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent (unless otherwise specified) and in sufficient copies for each Lender:
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving this Amendment and all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Amendment.
(b) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Amendment and the other documents to be delivered hereunder.
(c) Favorable opinions of Holland & Knight LLP, counsel for the Borrower, and the general counsel of the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibits D-1 and D-2 to the Credit Agreement, respectively, and as to such other matters as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
(d) A certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower stating that no event has occurred and is continuing.
This Amendment is subject to the provisions of Section 8.01 of the Credit Agreement.
SECTION 3. . The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
(a) The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Borrower's charter or by-laws or (ii) any material law or any material contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower.
(c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment.
(d) This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower. The Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether enforcement is sought by proceedings in equity or law).
 
(e) The Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at August 31, 2007, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of KPMG LLP, independent public accountants, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present, other than as disclosed to the Lenders prior to the date hereof, the Consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied. Since August 31, 2007, there has been no Material Adverse Change other than as disclosed to the Lenders prior to the date hereof.
(f) There is no pending or, to the Borrower's knowledge, overtly threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or administrative or judicial proceeding, including, without limitation, any Environmental Action, affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Litigation), and there has been no material adverse change in the status, or financial effect on the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, of the Disclosed Litigation from that described on Schedule 3.01(b) hereto or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
(g) No information, exhibit or report furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Amendment or pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made therein not misleading, other than as disclosed to the Lenders prior to the date hereof.
SECTION 4. . (a) On and after the effectiveness of this Amendment, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof" or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in the Notes to "the Credit Agreement", "thereunder", "thereof" or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as amended by this Amendment.
Reference to and Effect on the Credit Agreement and the Notes
(b) The Credit Agreement and the Notes, as specifically amended by this Amendment, are and shall continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed.
(c) The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any Lender or the Agent under the Credit Agreement, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement.
SECTION 5. . The Borrower agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery and administration, modification and amendment of this Amendment and the other instruments and documents to be delivered hereunder (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent) in accordance with the terms of Section 8.04 of the Credit Agreement.
Costs and Expenses
SECTION 6. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Amendment by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Execution in Counterparts
 
SECTION 7. . This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
SCHEDULE I
JABIL CIRCUIT, INC.
BRIDGE CREDIT AGREEMENT
APPLICABLE LENDING OFFICES
 
 


