FILE:JBL/JBL-8K-20070117164556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On January 12, 2007, Jabil Circuit (Taiwan) Limited ("Merger Sub"), a Taiwan corporation and indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Jabil Circuit, Inc. ("Jabil"), successfully completed its previously-announced tender offer to acquire up to 100% of the shares of Taiwan Green Point Enterprises Co., Ltd. ("Green Point"), a Taiwan corporation whose stock is traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange (the "Offer"). Pursuant to the Offer, Merger Sub acquired approximately 260.9 million shares, which represents over 97.6% of Green Point's outstanding shares, at a price of NT$109 per share (or approximately US$870.7 million total based on current exchange rates).
Merger Sub will acquire the remaining outstanding Green Point shares through a merger of Green Point with and into Merger Sub pursuant to the merger agreement entered into on November 22, 2006 (the "Merger"), provided that certain conditions are met, including, but not limited to: the approval of the Taiwan Stock Exchange and the Financial Supervisory Commission and the completion of the delisting process. The Green Point shareholders remaining after the Offer will receive NT$109 per share as a result of the Merger. In addition, because Merger Sub acquired more than 90% of Green Point's outstanding shares in the Offer, approval of the Merger by the remaining Green Point shareholders is not required.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information contained in Item 2.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
On January 12, 2007, in order to secure the funds necessary to complete the Offer, Jabil borrowed US$870.7 million on its $1.0 billion unsecured bridge agreement (the "Bridge Facility"), which was subsequently loaned to Merger Sub. The Bridge Facility terminates on December 20, 2007. Interest and fees on Bridge Facility draws are payable periodically and are based on Jabil's unsecured long-term indebtedness rating as determined by Standard & Poor's Rating Service and Moody's Investor Service. Interest is charged at either a rate equal to 0% to 0.75% above the base rate or a rate equal to 0.55% to 1.75% above the Eurocurrency rate, where the base rate represents the greater of Citibank, N.A.'s prime rate or 0.50% plus the federal funds rate, and the Eurocurrency rate represents the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate, each as more fully defined in the Bridge Facility. The applicable margin for the base rate and the Eurocurrency rate may be increased by 0.25% or 0.50% per annum, depending on the length of time that the Bridge Facility remains outstanding and depending on whether Jabil's Annual Report on Form 10-K for its 2006 fiscal year has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date in question.
A more detailed summary of the Bridge Facility is provided in Jabil's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 28, 2006, and a copy of the Bridge Facility will be attached to Jabil's Annual Report on Form 10-K for its 2006 fiscal year.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 15, 2007, Jabil issued a press release announcing the completion of the Offer and the draw of funds on the Bridge Facility to finance the Offer, as well as certain other information. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information furnished herewith pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including those regarding our closing the subsequent merger with Taiwan Green Point, Taiwan Green Point operating as an independent business unit and our marketing our integrated services and other statements. These statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involving risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: our ability to successfully address the challenges associated with integrating the acquisition; our ability to take advantage of perceived benefits of offering customers our expanded services after the acquisition; the finalization of our fiscal year 2006 financial statements and the audit thereof and the results of the review of our past stock option grants being conducted by a Special Committee of our Board and Governmental Authorities and the review of historical recognition of certain revenues by our Audit Committee; whether our announced realignment of certain of our capacities will adversely affect our cost structure, ability to service customers and labor relations; our ability to take advantage of perceived benefits of offering customers vertically integrated services; our ability to effectively address certain operational issues that have adversely affected certain of our operations; changes in technology; competition; managing rapid growth; risks associated with international sales and operations; retaining key personnel; our dependence on a limited number of large customers; business and competitive factors generally affecting the electronic manufacturing services industry, our customers and our business; other factors that we may not have currently identified or quantified; and other risks, relevant factors and uncertainties identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2005, subsequent Reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and our other securities filings. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
...Jabil Circuit, Inc. (NYSE: JBL), a global electronic product solutions company, announced the successful completion today of the previously-announced tender offer by one of its wholly owned subsidiaries to acquire up to 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Taiwan Green Point Enterprises Co., Ltd. for NT$109 per share. As of January 12, 2007, approximately 261 million shares of stock were acquired, representing over 97.6 percent of Taiwan Green Point's outstanding shares. The tender offer expired as scheduled and was not extended. The total amount paid for the tendered shares was approximately $US 871 million, based on current exchange rates. The entire purchase for the shares was borrowed under Jabil's $1.0 billion unsecured bridge credit agreement.
St. Petersburg, FL  January 15, 2007
It is intended that the remaining Taiwan Green Point shares will be acquired through the merger of Taiwan Green Point into Jabil's wholly-owned subsidiary as per the merger agreement signed and announced on November 22, 2006, provided that certain closing conditions are met.
These conditions include the approvals from the Taiwan Stock Exchange and the Financial Supervisory Commission and completion of the delisting process. These conditions are expected to be met in April, 2007. Formal approval of the merger by Taiwan Green Point's shareholders is not required because over 90 percent of Taiwan Green Point's outstanding shares were acquired through the tender offer. The remaining shareholders will receive NT$109 in cash for their shares at the closing of the merger.
Approximately 30,000 Taiwan Green Point employees will join Jabil, including the current management team. The Green Point name will be retained and will operate as an independent business within Jabil. Jabil and Taiwan Green Point management will jointly market their integrated services.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. acted as the financial advisor to Jabil in this transaction, and Holland & Knight LLP assisted by Tsar & Tsai acted as Jabil's legal counsel on the transaction.
Investor & Media Contact:
Beth Walters,
Vice President, Communications & Investor Relations
Jabil Circuit, Inc.
(727) 803-3349


