FILE:JBL/JBL-8K-20081125115409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") notified Jabil Circuit, Inc. (the "Company") on May 2, 2006 of its informal inquiry concerning the Company's historical stock option grant practices.
On November 25, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had received a letter from the SEC Division of Enforcement advising that the Division had completed its investigation and did not intend to recommend that the SEC take any enforcement action. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information furnished herewith pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
This news release may contain forward-looking statements. The statements in this news release are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involving risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the risks, relevant factors and uncertainties identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2008 and our other securities filings. Jabil disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
... As previously disclosed, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") notified Jabil Circuit, Inc. (NYSE: JBL), a global electronic product solutions company, on May 2, 2006 of the SEC's inquiry concerning Jabil's historical stock option grant practices. Subsequently, Jabil provided the SEC with information regarding Jabil's recognition of revenue for certain historical transactions. Jabil and its officers and directors fully cooperated with the SEC in the SEC's inquiry.
St. Petersburg, FL  November 25, 2008
Jabil announced that it had received a letter from the SEC Division of Enforcement advising that the Division had completed its investigation and did not intend to recommend that the SEC take any enforcement action.
About Jabil
Jabil is an electronic product solutions company providing comprehensive electronics design, manufacturing and product management services to global electronics and technology companies. Jabil helps bring electronics products to the market faster and more cost effectively by providing complete product supply chain management around the world. With approximately 75,000 employees and facilities in 22 countries, Jabil provides comprehensive, individualized-focused solutions to customers in a broad range of industries. Jabil common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol, "JBL". Further information is available on the company's website: jabil.com.
Investor & Media Contact:
Beth Walters
Vice President, Investor Relations & Communications
Jabil Circuit, Inc.
(727) 803-3511
beth_walters@jabil.com


