FILE:JBL/JBL-8K-20080520163650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 19, 2008, Jabil Circuit, Inc. ("Jabil") completed its offering of $150 million in aggregate principal amount of 8.250% senior unsecured notes due March 15, 2018 (the "Notes"), pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Regulation S under the Securities Act. The Notes are an additional issuance of Jabil's 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 and will be treated under the indenture pursuant to which they were issued as a single series with the outstanding $250 million aggregate principal amount of notes that was originally issued on January 16, 2008 (the "January Notes"). In connection with the pricing of the offering on May 14, 2008, Jabil entered into a purchase agreement, dated May 14, 2008, with the initial purchasers of the Notes (the "Initial Purchasers").
The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of January 16, 2008, by and between Jabil and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Indenture"), as supplemented by the Officers' Certificate dated May 19, 2008, that was delivered by certain of Jabil's officers pursuant to Sections 1.2, 3.1 and 3.3 of the Indenture (the "Officers' Certificate").
The Notes will mature on March 15, 2018. Interest on the Notes will be payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2008. The interest rate payable on the Notes is subject to adjustment from time to time if the credit ratings assigned to the Notes increase or decrease, as provided in the Notes. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of Jabil and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations.
Jabil may redeem all or any part of the Notes at its option at any time prior to their maturity by paying a redemption price equal to the greater of (plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but not including, the redemption date): (i) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments on the Notes discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a government treasury rate plus 50 basis points.
The Indenture contains certain covenants, including, but not limited to, covenants limiting Jabil's ability and/or its subsidiaries' ability to: create certain liens; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create, incur, issue, assume or guarantee any funded debt (applicable only to Jabil's "restricted subsidiaries"); guarantee any of Jabil's indebtedness (applicable only to Jabil's subsidiaries); and consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its assets to another person. The Indenture also contains a covenant regarding the repurchase by Jabil of the Notes upon a "change of control triggering event."
In connection with the issuance of the Notes, on May 19, 2008, Jabil and the Initial Purchasers entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "May Registration Rights Agreement") pursuant to which Jabil agreed to use its best efforts to: (i) cause a registration statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act on or before July 14, 2008; and (ii) cause the exchange offer to be consummated on or before September 12, 2008.
If the exchange offer required by the May Registration Rights Agreement or, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement dated January 16, 2008 (the "January Registration Rights Agreement"), the exchange offer with respect to the January Notes is not completed on or before September 12, 2008, Jabil will be required to pay a special interest premium over and above the regular interest of 0.25% per annum on the Notes and the January Notes for the first 60-day period immediately following the last day of such period and of 0.50% per annum thererafter, until the exchange offer is completed. Further to the foregoing and for the avoidance of doubt, if Jabil becomes obligated to pay the special interest premium on the Notes or the January Notes, Jabil shall pay the special interest premium on both the Notes and the January Notes.
 
Certain of the Initial Purchasers (or their affiliates) have various other relationships with Jabil and its subsidiaries involving the provision of financial services, including cash management, loans, letter of credit and bank guarantee facilities, investment banking and trust services. Jabil, along with its subsidiaries has entered into foreign exchange contracts and other derivative arrangements with certain of the Initial Purchasers (and their affiliates). In addition, all of the Initial Purchasers (or their affiliates) are lenders under Jabil's five-year unsecured credit facility dated July 19, 2007 (the "Credit Facility").
Jabil intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of all or a portion of the Credit Facility. The Initial Purchasers or their affiliates, as lenders under the Credit Facility, may receive all or a portion of the net proceeds from the offering.
The foregoing descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of: (i) the Form of Note (a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K); (ii) the Indenture (a copy of which is incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K); (iii) the Officers' Certificate (a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 4.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K); and (iv) the Registration Rights Agreement (a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 4.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K).
 
The information included in Item 1.01 of this Report is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
 
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
 
(1) Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Registrant on January 17, 2008.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
(1) Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Registrant on January 17, 2008.
 

Exhibit 4.1
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY. UNLESS THIS SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (THE "DEPOSITORY") TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION IN THIS SECURITY MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") THAT IS IN THE CASE OF RULE 144A NOTES: SIX MONTHS, AND IN THE CASE OF REGULATION S NOTES: 40 DAYS, AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY), ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR" WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 501(a) (1), (2), (3) OR (7) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IS AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR ACQUIRING THE SECURITY FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF SUCH AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR, IN EACH CASE IN A MINIMUM PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF THE SECURITIES OF $250,000, FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES AND NOT WITH A VIEW TO OR FOR OFFER OR SALE IN CONNECTION WITH ANY DISTRIBUTION IN VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (F) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D), (E) OR (F) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE. IN THE CASE OF REGULATION S NOTES: BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER HEREOF REPRESENTS THAT IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON NOR IS IT PURCHASING FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
JABIL CIRCUIT, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of ONE HUNDRED FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS ($150,000,000) on March 15, 2018 ("Stated Maturity") and to pay interest thereon from January 16, 2008, as if interest had begun to accrue January 16, 2008, or from the most recent date in respect of which interest has been paid or duly provided for, on March 15 and September 15 of each year (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing September 15, 2008, and at Stated Maturity or upon such other date on which the principal of this Note becomes due and payable, whether by declaration of acceleration, notice of redemption or otherwise, and including any Redemption Date or Change in Control Purchase Date (each such date, "Maturity"), at the rate of 8.250% per annum (which interest rate may be adjusted as set forth on the reverse hereof), until the principal hereof and premium, if any, hereon is paid or duly made available for payment and on any overdue principal or premium, if any, and (to the extent that payout of such interest is lawful) on any overdue installment of interest at the same rate per annum during the period in which such principal or premium, if any, or interest remains unpaid. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture referred to below, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered as of the close of business on March 1 or September 1, as the case may be (whether or not a Business Day), immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date (each such date, a "Regular Record Date"). Any such interest that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder of this Note on such Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Note not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
Payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, this Note will be made at the office or agency maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the related record date; provided further, that, notwithstanding anything else contained herein, if this Note is a Global Security and is held in book-entry form through the facilities of the Depository, payments on this Note will be made to the Depository or its nominee in accordance with the arrangements then in effect between the Trustee and the Depository.
provided
however
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the succeeding pages hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, JABIL CIRCUIT, INC. has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein, referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company issued under an Indenture, dated as of January 16, 2008 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), designated as the 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "Notes"). This Note is an additional issuance of Notes that were originally issued on January 16, 2008 in the aggregate principal amount of $250,000,000 (the "Initial Notes"). The Notes will be treated under the Indenture as a single series with the Initial Notes (the Notes and the Initial Notes referred to collectively as the "Notes," unless the context otherwise requires), which will result in a total outstanding aggregate principal amount of $400,000,000 in Notes, subject to the provisions of the Indenture. Reference is made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. All terms used in this Note set forth below which are not defined herein and which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
The interest rate payable on this Note is subject to adjustments from time to time if either of Moody's Investor Services, Inc. ("Moody's") or Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a Division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"), or any Substitute Rating Agency (as defined below) downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) the credit rating assigned to this Note, as set forth below.
If the rating of the Notes from Moody's, S&P or any Substitute Rating Agency that rates the Notes is decreased to a rating set forth in the following table with respect to that Rating Agency (as defined below), the per annum interest rate on this Note will increase from that set forth on the face of this Note by the percentage set forth opposite that rating (plus any applicable percentage resulting from a decreased rating by the other Rating Agency):
 
 
If at any time the interest rate on this Note has been adjusted upward as a result of a decrease in a rating by a Rating Agency and that Rating Agency subsequently increases its rating with respect to the Notes to any of the threshold ratings set forth above, the per annum interest rate on this Note will be decreased such that the per annum interest rate equals the interest rate set forth on the face of this Note plus the percentage set forth opposite the rating in effect immediately following the increase in the table above (plus any applicable percentage resulting from a decreased rating by the other Rating Agency); provided that if Moody's or any Substitute Rating Agency subsequently increases its rating of the Notes to "Ba1" (or its equivalent if with respect to any Substitute Rating Agency) or higher or S&P or any Substitute Rating Agency subsequently increases its rating of the Notes to "BB+" (or its equivalent if with respect to any Substitute Rating Agency) or higher, the interest rate on this Note will be decreased to the per annum interest rate set forth on the face of this Note (plus any applicable percentage resulting from a decreased rating by the other Rating Agency).
No adjustment in the interest rate of this Note shall be made solely as a result of a Rating Agency ceasing to provide a rating. If at any time less than two Rating Agencies provide a rating of the Notes, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a rating of the Notes from another Rating Agency, to the extent one exists, and if another such Rating Agency rates the Notes (such Rating Agency, a "Substitute Rating Agency"), for
 
purposes of determining any increase or decrease in the per annum interest rate on this Note pursuant to the table above (a) such Substitute Rating Agency will be substituted for the last Rating Agency to provide a rating of the Notes but which has since ceased to provide such rating, (b) the relative ratings scale used by such Substitute Rating Agency to assign ratings to senior unsecured debt will be determined in good faith by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company and, for purposes of determining the applicable ratings included in the table above with respect to such Substitute Rating Agency, such ratings shall be deemed to be the equivalent ratings used by Moody's and S&P in such table and (c) the per annum interest rate on this Note shall increase or decrease, as the case may be, such that the interest rate equals the interest rate set forth on the face of this Note plus the appropriate percentage, if any, set forth opposite the rating from such Substitute Rating Agency in the table above (taking into account the provisions of clause (b) above) (plus any applicable percentage resulting from a decreased rating by the other Rating Agency). For so long as (i) only one Rating Agency provides a rating of the Notes, any increase or decrease in the interest rate of this Note necessitated by a reduction or increase in the rating by that Rating Agency shall be twice the applicable percentage set forth in the table above and (ii) no Rating Agency provides a rating of the Notes, the interest rate on this Note shall increase to, or remain at, as the case may be, 2.00% above the interest rate set forth on the face of this Note.
Each adjustment required by any decrease or increase in a rating set forth above, whether occasioned by the action of Moody's, S&P or any Substitute Rating Agency, shall be made independent of any and all other adjustments. In no event shall (1) the per annum interest rate on this Note be reduced below the interest rate set forth on the face of this Note or (2) the total increase in the per annum interest rate on this Note exceed 2.00% above the interest rate set forth on the face of this Note.
Any interest rate increase or decrease described above will take effect on the next Business Day after the rating change has occurred.
The interest rate on this Note will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment described above (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in the ratings by any Rating Agency) if this Note become rated "Baa2" (or its equivalent) or higher by Moody's (or any Substitute Rating Agency) and "BBB" (or its equivalent) or higher by S&P (or any Substitute Rating Agency), or one of those ratings if only rated by one Rating Agency, in each case with a stable or positive outlook.
The Indenture provides for the defeasance of the Notes and certain covenants in certain circumstances.
This Note is unsecured as to payment of principal and premium, if any, and interest, and ranks pari passu with all other unsecured senior indebtedness of the Company.
Interest payments on this Note will include interest accrued to but excluding the applicable Interest Payment Date or Maturity hereof, as the case may be. Interest payments for this Note shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
In the case where the applicable Interest Payment Date or Maturity with respect hereto, as the case may be, does not fall on a Business Day, payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest otherwise payable on such day need not be made on such day, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or at Maturity and, unless the Company defaults on such payment, no interest shall accrue with respect to such payment for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date or such Maturity, as the case may be, to the date of payment on such next succeeding Business Day. "Business Day" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York.
The Notes will not be subject to any sinking fund and, except as provided in the Indenture or herein, will not be redeemable or repayable prior to their Stated Maturity.
The Notes are redeemable as a whole or in part, at the Company's option at any time, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes being redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest on the Notes being redeemed, discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve
 
30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 0.50% (50 basis points), plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes to, but not including, the Redemption Date. The Company will, however, pay the interest installment due on any Interest Payment Date that occurs on or before a Redemption Date to the Holders as of the close of business on the Regular Record Date immediately preceding that Interest Payment Date.
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity (computed as of the third business day immediately preceding that Redemption Date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the arithmetic average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the arithmetic average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date.
"Independent Investment Banker" means Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., or their respective successors as may be appointed from time to time by the Trustee after consultation with the Company; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing ceases to be a primary United States Treasury securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
"Rating Agency" means (i) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the control of the Company, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the board of directors of the Company) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., and two other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Company, and each of their respective successors and any other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the arithmetic average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer as of 3:30 p.m., New York City Time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Remaining Scheduled Payments" means, with respect to any Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; provided, however, that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
If (a) the Company shall have on any date (the "Succession Date") consolidated with or merged into, or conveyed or transferred or leased its properties and assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any Person which is organized under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, (b) as result of any change in or any amendment to the laws, regulations or published tax rulings of such jurisdiction, or of any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein, affecting taxation, or any change in the official administration, application or interpretation of such laws, regulations or published tax rulings either generally or in relation to the Notes, which change or amendment becomes effective after the
 
Succession Date or which change in official administration, application or interpretation shall not have been available to the public on or prior to such Succession Date and is notified to the Company, such continuing Person would be required to pay any Successor Additional Amounts pursuant to the Indenture or the terms of the Notes in respect of any payments that it may be required to make with respect to any Notes and (c) such obligation cannot be avoided by the Company or such continuing Person taking reasonable measures available to it, the Company or such continuing Person may at its option redeem all (but not less than all) of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' written notice as provided in the Indenture, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption; provided however, that (a) no such notice of redemption may be given earlier than 60 days prior to the earliest date on which a continuing Person would be obligated to pay such Successor Additional Amounts were a payment then due in respect of the Notes, and (b) at the time any such redemption notice is given, such obligation to pay such Successor Additional Amounts must remain in effect.
Holders of Notes to be redeemed will be given notice of redemption, at their addresses as set forth in the Security Register for the Notes, at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. If less than all the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by lot by the Depository, in the case of Notes represented by a Global Security, or by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in the case of the Notes that are not represented by a Global Security.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portion thereof called for redemption.
The payment of principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on, or in respect of, this Note shall be deemed to include the payment of Successor Additional Amounts provided for in the Indenture or herein to the extent that, in such context, Successor Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the Indenture or this Note.
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, if on or prior to Maturity there shall have occurred a Change of Control Repurchase Event, unless the Company shall have redeemed the Notes prior to such occurrence, the Company shall, at the option of the Holders thereof, purchase all or any part (in excess of $2,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Notes for which a Change of Control Purchase Notice shall have been delivered as provided in the Indenture and not withdrawn by a date which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date that a Repurchase Offer Notice is mailed with respect to the occurrence of such Change of Control, at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to, but not including, the Change in Control Purchase Date.
Any Holder delivering a Change of Control Purchase Notice shall have the right to withdraw such Change of Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to or on the Change of Control Purchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
If any Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
As set forth in, and subject to the provisions of, the Indenture, no Holder of any Note shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to the Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any remedy thereunder, unless (i) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Notes, (ii) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute such proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee thereunder, (iii) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee such indemnity as is reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request, (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding and (v) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes; , that such limitations do not apply to a proceeding instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of, any premium and (subject to certain provisions of the
provided, however
 
Indenture) interest on, and, if applicable, the Change of Control Purchase Price or any Additional Amounts with respect to, this Note on the respective Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed herein, or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date or, in the case of repayment at the option of the Holder, on the date such repayment is due, or, in the case of a Change of Control or as to any Change of Control Purchase Notice given timely, on the Change of Control Purchase Date.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Notes at any time by the Company and the Trustee by entering into an indenture or indentures supplemental thereto with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes. The Indenture also permits the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes, to prospectively waive compliance by the Company with certain restrictive provisions of the Indenture and to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange for or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
No reference to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and premium, if any, and any interest on this Note at the times, places and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
The Notes are issuable only in fully registered form in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Note is exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series and of like tenor of any authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any interest on this Note are payable or at such other offices or agencies as the Company may designate, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to, the Company and the Security Registrar or any transfer agent duly executed by the registered owner hereof or his/her attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount and Stated Maturity will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 19, 2008, by and among the Company and the Initial Purchasers, as defined therein, (as the same may be amended from time to time, the "Registration Rights Agreement"). In the event that the Registered Exchange Offer (as such term is defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) is not consummated or a Shelf Registration Statement (as such term is defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) with respect to the Notes is not declared effective on or prior to September 12, 2008 (the date that is 240 days after the date of issuance of the Initial Notes), then the interest rate borne by the Notes shall increase by 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period immediately following such date and by an additional 0.25% per annum thereafter, up to a maximum aggregate additional rate of 0.50% per annum, until the Registered Exchange Offer is consummated or the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission. If the Company shall become obligated to pay additional interest on either the Notes or the Initial Notes pursuant to the registration rights agreements applicable to the Notes or the Initial Notes, respectively, it will pay such additional interest on both the Notes and the Initial Notes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Holder of Notes who is not entitled to the benefits of the Shelf Registration Statement shall not be entitled to any increase in the interest rate borne by the Notes as a result of a registration default that pertains to the Shelf Registration Statement. Any New Security (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) issued in exchange for this Note shall evidence the same continuing indebtedness as this Note. Under no circumstances shall the surrender of this Note and the issue of a New Security in exchange therefor constitute new indebtedness or obligate the Company to repay the principal amount of this Note in connection with the exchange.
Subject to the terms of the Indenture, prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of this Note, but, subject to certain limitations set forth in the Indenture, the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Indenture and this Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to agreements made or instruments entered into and, in each case, performed in said State.
This Note shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been executed by the Trustee.
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto
 
the within Note and all rights thereunder and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint the aforesaid assignee attorney to transfer the within Note on the books kept for registration thereof, with full power of substitution in the premises.
In connection with any transfer or exchange of any of the within Note occurring prior to the Resale Restriction Termination Date:
CHECK ONE BOX BELOW:
 
 
Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof; , , that if box (5), (6) or (7) is checked, the Trustee or the Company may require, prior to registering any such transfer of the Notes, in their sole discretion, such legal opinions, certifications and other information as the Trustee or the Company may reasonably request to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act, such as the exemption provided by Rule 144 under such Act.
provided
however
 
In the presence of:
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears upon the face of the within Note in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. When assignment is made by a guardian, trustee, executor or administrator, an officer of a corporation, or anyone in a representative capacity, proof of his or her authority to act must accompany the Note. The signature must be guaranteed by an Institution which is a member of one of the following recognized signature Guarantee Programs: (i) the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP); (ii) the New York Stock Exchange Inc. Medallion Signature Program (MSP); (iii) the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program (SEMP); or (iv) in such other guarantee program acceptable to the Trustee.
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.3
We, the undersigned, being respectively the President and the Chief Financial Officer of Jabil Circuit, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), hereby certify to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), pursuant to and in accordance with Sections 1.2, 3.1 and 3.3 of the Indenture, dated as of January 16, 2008 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee, that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings specified in the Indenture or the Specimen Note. The foregoing terms of the Notes are qualified by the complete text of the Specimen Note and Annex I hereto, which are attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Each of the undersigned has read all of the conditions relating to the execution, authentication and delivery of the Notes contained in the Indenture and the definitions therein relating thereto, has read the certified copy of the board resolutions attached hereto and has examined the Specimen Note attached hereto. In the opinion of each of the undersigned he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not all such conditions precedent have been complied with and, in the opinion of each of the undersigned, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
Insofar as this certificate relates to legal matters, it is based, as provided for in Section 1.3 of the Indenture, upon the Opinion of Counsel delivered to the Trustee contemporaneously herewith pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Indenture and relating to the Notes.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto signed our names on this 19
th
day of May, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
(b) The Notes offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act ("Regulation S") shall be issued initially in the form of interests in one or more permanent Global Notes (the "Regulation S Global Notes" and together with the Rule 144A Global Notes, the "Global Notes") registered in the name of the Depository or a nominee of the Depository. Each Regulation S Global Note will be deposited upon issuance with, or on behalf of, a custodian for the Depository for credit to the respective accounts of the purchasers, or to other accounts as they may direct, at Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. ("Euroclear") or Clearstream Banking, ("Clearstream Luxembourg"). Before the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period (as defined in Regulation S), interests in a Regulation S Global Note may only be held through Euroclear or Clearstream Luxembourg, as indirect participants in the Depository, unless exchanged for interests in a Rule 144A Global Note or an Institutional Accredited Investor Global Note (as defined below) in accordance with the transfer and certification requirements described herein.
socit anonyme
 
(c) The initial resale of the Notes or any interest or participation therein by an Initial Purchaser shall not be to an institutional "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act ("Institutional Accredited Investor"). Notes subsequently resold to Institutional Accredited Investors shall be issued initially in the form of interests in one or more Rule 144A Global Notes.
(d) The aggregate principal amount of Global Notes may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee, as custodian for the Depository or its nominee, as hereinafter provided. The Depository shall be The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") unless the Company appoints a successor depository by delivery of a Company Order to the Trustee specifying such successor depository.
 
 
 
 
 
 
After the Resale Restriction Period, interests in a Rule 144A Global Note may be transferred without requiring the certification set forth in or any additional certification.
Exhibit D
 
 
 
 
After the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, interests in a Regulation S Global Note may be transferred without requiring the certification set forth in , or any additional certification.
Exhibit D
Exhibit E
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION IN THIS SECURITY MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") THAT IS IN THE CASE OF RULE 144A NOTES: SIX MONTHS, AND IN THE CASE OF REGULATION S NOTES: 40 DAYS, AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY), ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL "ACCREDITED INVESTOR" WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 501(a) (1), (2), (3) OR (7) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IS AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR ACQUIRING THE SECURITY FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF SUCH AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR, IN EACH CASE IN A MINIMUM PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF THE SECURITIES OF $250,000, FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES AND NOT WITH A VIEW TO OR FOR OFFER OR SALE IN CONNECTION WITH ANY DISTRIBUTION IN VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (F) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D), (E) OR (F) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE. IN THE CASE OF REGULATION S NOTES: BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER HEREOF REPRESENTS THAT IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON NOR IS IT PURCHASING FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
Jabil Circuit, Inc.
10560 Dr. Martin Luther King Street North,
St. Petersburg, Florida 33716
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.
101 Barclay Street, Floor 7 West,
New York, NY 10286
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This certificate is delivered to request a transfer of $ principal amount of the 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "Notes") of Jabil Circuit, Inc. (the "Company").
                
Upon transfer, the Notes would be registered in the name of the new beneficial owner as follows:
 
The undersigned represents and warrants to you that:
1. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(l), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), purchasing for our own account or for the account of such an institutional "accredited investor" at least $250,000 principal amount of the Notes, and we are acquiring the Notes not with a view to, or for offer or sale in connection with, any distribution in violation of the Securities Act. We have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risk of our investment in the Notes and we invest in or purchase securities similar to the Notes in the normal course of our business. We and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
2. We understand that the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and, unless so registered, may not be sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We
 
agree on our own behalf and on behalf of any investor account for which we are purchasing Notes to offer, sell or otherwise transfer such Notes or interests or participations therein, prior to the date (the "Resale Restriction Termination Date") that is six months (or such period as may be required by any subsequent change in applicable law) after the later of the original issue date and the last date on which the Company or any affiliate of the Company was the owner of such Notes (or any predecessor of such Notes), only (a) to the Company, (b) pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act, (c) for so long as the Notes are eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, to a person we reasonably believe is a "qualified institutional buyer" ("QIB") as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act that purchases for its own account or for the account of a QIB to whom notice is given that the transfer is being made in reliance on Rule 144A, (d) pursuant to offers and sales that occur outside the United States within the meaning of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (e) to an institutional "accredited investor" within the meaning of Rule 501(a)(l), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act that is an institutional accredited investor acquiring the Notes for its own account or for the account of such an institutional accredited investor, in each case in a minimum principal amount of Notes of $250,000, for investment purposes and not with a view to or for offer or sale in connection with any distribution in violation of the Securities Act or (f) pursuant to another available exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, subject to the Company's and the Trustee's right prior to any such offer, sale or transfer pursuant to clauses (d), (e) or (f) to require the delivery of an opinion of counsel, certification and/or other information satisfactory to each of them.
 
 
Jabil Circuit, Inc.
10560 Dr. Martin Luther King Street North,
St. Petersburg, Florida 33716
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.
101 Barclay Street, Floor 7 West,
New York, NY 10286
 
8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "Notes")
Ladies and Gentlemen:
In connection with our proposed sale of beneficial interests in $ aggregate principal amount of the Notes, we confirm that such sale has been effected pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation S ("Regulation S") under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, we represent that:
                
(a) the offer of the Notes was not made to a U.S. Person as defined in Regulation S;
(b) either (i) at the time the buy order was originated, the transferee was outside the United States or we and any person acting on our behalf reasonably believed that the transferee was outside the United States or (ii) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither we nor any person acting on our behalf knows that the transaction has been pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States;
(c) no directed selling efforts have been made in the United States in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(a)(2) or Rule 904(a)(2) of Regulation S, as applicable; and
(d) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act[.] [; and
(e) [N.B. INCLUDE IF THE TRANSFER IS MADE DURING THE DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD: ]upon completion of the transaction, the Notes being transferred as described above are to be held with the Depositary through Euroclear or Clearstream Luxembourg or both until 40 days after the Closing Date].
 
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. Terms used in this certificate have the meanings set forth in Regulation S.
 
 

Exhibit 4.4
May 19, 2008
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
and
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
As Representatives of the Initial Purchasers
c/o Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
388 Greenwich Street
New York, New York 10013
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Jabil Circuit, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to certain purchasers (the "Initial Purchasers"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, its 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "Securities"), upon the terms set forth in the Purchase Agreement between the Company and the Representatives, acting for themselves and as representatives of the several Initial Purchasers, dated May 14, 2008 (the "Purchase Agreement") relating to the initial placement (the "Initial Placement") of the Securities. The Company has previously issued, on January 16, 2008, $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "Initial Notes") The Securities are an additional issuance of the Initial Notes and will be treated under the indenture pursuant to which they will be issued as a single series with the Initial Notes. The Initial Notes are subject to a Registration Rights Agreement between the Company and the Representatives dated January 16, 2008 (the "Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement"). To induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement and to satisfy a condition to your obligations thereunder, the Company agrees with you for your benefit and the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Securities (including the Initial Purchasers) (each a "Holder" and, collectively, the "Holders"), as follows:
1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Purchase Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
"Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
"Affiliate" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 405 under the Act and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" shall have meanings correlative thereto.
"Broker-Dealer" shall mean any broker or dealer registered as such under the Exchange Act.
"Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York.
"Closing Date" shall mean the date of the first issuance of the Securities.
"Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
"Deferral Period" shall have the meaning indicated in Section 4(k)(ii) hereof.
"Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
"Exchange Offer Registration Period" shall mean the one-year period following the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer, exclusive of any period during which any stop order shall be in effect suspending the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
"Exchange Offer Registration Statement" shall mean a registration statement of the Company on an appropriate form under the Act with respect to the Registered Exchange Offer, all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments thereto, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
"Exchanging Dealer" shall mean any Holder (which may include any Initial Purchaser) that is a Broker-Dealer and elects to exchange for New Securities any Securities that it acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (but not directly from the Company or any Affiliate of the Company) for New Securities.
"Final Memorandum" shall mean the offering memorandum, dated May 14, 2008, relating to the Securities, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein as of such date.
"Holder" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
"Indenture" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities, dated as of January 16, 2008, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
"Initial Placement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
"Initial Purchasers" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
 
"Losses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.
"Majority Holders" shall mean, on any date, Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Securities registered under a Registration Statement.
"Managing Underwriters" shall mean the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that administer an underwritten offering, if any, under a Registration Statement.
"FINRA Rules" shall mean the Conduct Rules and the By-Laws of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
"New Securities" shall mean debt securities of the Company identical in all material respects to the Securities (except that the transfer restrictions shall be modified or eliminated, as appropriate) to be issued under the New Securities Indenture.
"New Securities Indenture" shall mean an indenture between the Company and the New Securities Trustee, identical in all material respects to the Indenture (except that the transfer restrictions shall be modified or eliminated, as appropriate), which may be the Indenture if in the terms thereof appropriate provision is made for the New Securities.
"New Securities Trustee" shall mean a bank or trust company, which may be the Trustee, reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, as trustee with respect to the New Securities under the New Securities Indenture.
"Prospectus" shall mean the prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A under the Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Securities or the New Securities covered by such Registration Statement, and all amendments and supplements thereto, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein.
"Purchase Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
"Registered Exchange Offer" shall mean the proposed offer of the Company to issue and deliver to the Holders of the Securities that are not prohibited by any law or policy of the Commission from participating in such offer, in exchange for the Securities, a like aggregate principal amount of the New Securities.
"Registrable Securities" shall mean (i) Securities other than those that have been (A) registered under a Registration Statement and disposed of in accordance therewith or (B) distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Act or any successor rule or regulation thereto that may be adopted by the Commission and (ii) any New Securities resale of which by the Holder thereof requires compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Act.
"Registration Default Damages" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8 hereof.
 
"Registration Statement" shall mean any Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement that covers any of the Securities or the New Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, any amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments (in each case including the Prospectus contained therein), all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
"Representatives" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
"Securities" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
"Shelf Registration" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
"Shelf Registration Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) hereof.
"Shelf Registration Statement" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 3 hereof which covers some or all of the Securities or New Securities, as applicable, on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
"Trustee" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
"Trust Indenture Act" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
"underwriter" shall mean any underwriter of Securities in connection with an offering thereof under a Shelf Registration Statement.
2. . (a) The Company shall use its best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective under the Act on or before July 14, 2008. The Company shall use its best efforts to cause the Registered Exchange Offer to be consummated on or before September 12, 2008.
Registered Exchange Offer
(b) Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly commence the Registered Exchange Offer, it being the objective of such Registered Exchange Offer to enable each Holder electing to exchange Securities for New Securities (assuming that such Holder is not an Affiliate of the Company, acquires the New Securities in the ordinary course of such Holder's business, has no arrangements with any person to participate in the distribution of the New Securities and is not prohibited by any law or policy of the Commission from participating in the Registered Exchange Offer) to trade such New Securities from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the Act and without material restrictions under the securities laws of a substantial proportion of the several states of the United States.
(c) In connection with the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
(i) mail to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
 
(ii) keep the Registered Exchange Offer open for not less than 20 Business Days and not more than 30 Business Days after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders (or, in each case, longer if required by applicable law);
(iii) use its best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective under the Act, supplemented and amended as required, under the Act to ensure that it is available for sales of New Securities by Exchanging Dealers during the Exchange Offer Registration Period;
(iv) utilize the services of a depositary for the Registered Exchange Offer with an address in the Borough of Manhattan in New York City, which may be the Trustee, the New Securities Trustee or an Affiliate of either of them;
(v) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Securities at any time prior to the close of business, New York time, on the last Business Day on which the Registered Exchange Offer is open;
(vi) prior to effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, provide a supplemental letter to the Commission (A) stating that the Company is conducting the Registered Exchange Offer in reliance on the position of the Commission in (pub. avail. May 13, 1988), . (pub. avail. June 5, 1991); and (B) including a representation that the Company has not entered into any arrangement or understanding with any person to distribute the New Securities to be received in the Registered Exchange Offer and that, to the best of the Company's information and belief, each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer is acquiring the New Securities in the ordinary course of business and has no arrangement or understanding with any person to participate in the distribution of the New Securities; and
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc
(vii) comply in all respects with all applicable laws.
(d) As soon as practicable after the close of the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
(i) accept for exchange all Securities tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer;
(ii) deliver to the Trustee for cancellation in accordance with Section 4(s) all Securities so accepted for exchange; and
(iii) cause the New Securities Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver to each Holder of Securities a principal amount of New Securities equal to the principal amount of the Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
 
(e) Each Holder hereby acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Registered Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the New Securities (x) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission in (pub. avail. May 13, 1988) and (pub. avail. June 5, 1991), as interpreted in the Commission's letter to Shearman & Sterling dated July 2, 1993 and similar no-action letters; and (y) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Act in connection with any secondary resale transaction, which must be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K under the Act if the resales are of New Securities obtained by such Holder in exchange for Securities acquired by such Holder directly from the Company or one of its Affiliates. Accordingly, each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer shall be required to represent to the Company that, at the time of the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer:
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc.
(i) any New Securities received by such Holder will be acquired in the ordinary course of business;
(ii) such Holder will have no arrangement or understanding with any person to participate in the distribution of the Securities or the New Securities within the meaning of the Act; and
(iii) such Holder is not an Affiliate of the Company.
(f) If any Initial Purchaser determines that it is not eligible to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer with respect to the exchange of Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment, at the request of such Initial Purchaser, the Company shall issue and deliver to such Initial Purchaser or the person purchasing New Securities registered under a Shelf Registration Statement as contemplated by Section 3 hereof from such Initial Purchaser, in exchange for such Securities, a like principal amount of New Securities. The Company shall use its best efforts to cause the CUSIP Service Bureau to issue the same CUSIP number for such New Securities as for New Securities issued pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer.
3. . (a) If (i) due to any change in law or applicable interpretations thereof by the Commission's staff, the Company determines upon advice of its outside counsel that it is not permitted to effect the Registered Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2 hereof; or (ii) for any other reason the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated on or before September 12, 2008; (iii) any Initial Purchaser so requests with respect to Securities that are not eligible to be exchanged for New Securities in the Registered Exchange Offer and that are held by it following consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer; (iv) any Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser) is not eligible to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer; or (v) in the case of any Initial Purchaser that participates in the Registered Exchange Offer or acquires New Securities pursuant to Section 2(f) hereof, such Initial Purchaser does not receive freely tradeable New Securities in exchange for Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment (it being understood that (x) the requirement that an Initial Purchaser deliver a Prospectus containing the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K under the Act in connection with sales of New Securities acquired in
Shelf Registration
 
exchange for such Securities shall result in such New Securities being not "freely tradeable"; and (y) the requirement that an Exchanging Dealer deliver a Prospectus in connection with sales of New Securities acquired in the Registered Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities shall not result in such New Securities being not "freely tradeable"), the Company shall effect a Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with subsection (b) below.
(b) (i) The Company shall as promptly as practicable (but in no event more than 30 days after so required or requested pursuant to this Section 3), file with the Commission and shall use its best efforts to cause to be declared effective under the Act within 90 days after so required or requested, a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Securities or the New Securities, as applicable, by the Holders thereof from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by such Holders and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement; provided, however, that no Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser) shall be entitled to have the Securities held by it covered by such Shelf Registration Statement unless such Holder agrees in writing to be bound by all of the provisions of this Agreement applicable to such Holder; and provided further, that with respect to New Securities received by an Initial Purchaser in exchange for Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment, the Company may, if permitted by current interpretations by the Commission's staff, file a post-effective amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement containing the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection with respect thereto, and any such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as so amended, shall be referred to herein as, and governed by the provisions herein applicable to, a Shelf Registration Statement.
(ii) The Company shall use its best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the Act, in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period the "Shelf Registration Period") from the date the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the Commission until (A) the expiration of the time period referred to in Rule 144(d)(1)(ii) under the Act or (B) the date upon which all the Securities or New Securities, as applicable, covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. The Company shall be deemed not to have used its best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the Shelf Registration Period if it voluntarily takes any action that would result in Holders of Securities covered thereby not being able to offer and sell such Securities at any time during the Shelf Registration Period, unless such action is (x) required by applicable law or otherwise undertaken by the Company in good faith and for valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including the acquisition or divestiture of assets, and (y) permitted pursuant to Section 4(k)(ii) hereof.
(iii) The Company shall cause the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, as of the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement or such amendment or supplement, (A) to comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Act; and
 
(B) not to contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading.
4. . In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement and, to the extent applicable, any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the following provisions shall apply.
Additional Registration Procedures
(a) The Company shall:
(i) furnish to each of the Representatives and to counsel for the Holders, not less than five Business Days prior to the filing thereof with the Commission, a copy of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any Shelf Registration Statement, and each amendment thereof and each amendment or supplement, if any, to the Prospectus included therein (including all documents incorporated by reference therein after the initial filing) and shall use its best efforts to reflect in each such document, when so filed with the Commission, such comments as the Representatives reasonably propose;
(ii) include the information set forth in Annex A hereto on the facing page of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, in Annex B hereto in the forepart of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in a section setting forth details of the Exchange Offer, in Annex C hereto in the underwriting or plan of distribution section of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, and in Annex D hereto in the letter of transmittal delivered pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer;
(iii) if requested by an Initial Purchaser, include the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, in the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement; and
(iv) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, include the names of the Holders that propose to sell Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement as selling security holders.
(b) The Company shall ensure that:
(i) any Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming part thereof and any amendment or supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the Act; and
(ii) any Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
 
(c) The Company shall advise the Representatives, the Holders of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement and any Exchanging Dealer under any Exchange Offer Registration Statement that has provided in writing to the Company a telephone or facsimile number and address for notices, and, if requested by any Representative or any such Holder or Exchanging Dealer, shall confirm such advice in writing (which notice pursuant to clauses (ii)-(v) hereof shall be accompanied by an instruction to suspend the use of the Prospectus until the Company shall have remedied the basis for such suspension):
(i) when a Registration Statement and any amendment thereto has been filed with the Commission and when the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective;
(ii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or for additional information;
(iii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or the institution or threatening of any proceeding for that purpose;
(iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the securities included therein for sale in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and
(v) of the happening of any event that requires any change in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus so that, as of such date, they (A) do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact and (B) do not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading.
(d) The Company shall use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any order suspending the effectiveness of any Registration Statement or the qualification of the securities therein for sale in any jurisdiction and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
(e) The Company shall furnish to each Holder of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, at least one copy of such Shelf Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including all material incorporated therein by reference, and, if the Holder so requests in writing, all exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein).
(f) The Company shall, during the Shelf Registration Period, deliver to each Holder of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including the Preliminary Prospectus) included in such Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Holder may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or
 
supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Securities in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Shelf Registration Statement.
(g) The Company shall furnish to each Exchanging Dealer which so requests, without charge, at least one copy of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including all material incorporated by reference therein, and, if the Exchanging Dealer so requests in writing, all exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein).
(h) The Company shall promptly deliver to each Initial Purchaser, each Exchanging Dealer and each other person required to deliver a Prospectus during the Exchange Offer Registration Period, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus included in such Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as any such person may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by any Initial Purchaser, any Exchanging Dealer and any such other person that may be required to deliver a Prospectus following the Registered Exchange Offer in connection with the offering and sale of the New Securities covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
(i) Prior to the Registered Exchange Offer or any other offering of Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement, the Company shall arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the Securities or the New Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder shall reasonably request and shall maintain such qualification in effect so long as required; provided that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to service of process in suits, other than those arising out of the Initial Placement, the Registered Exchange Offer or any offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
(j) The Company shall cooperate with the Holders of Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing New Securities or Securities to be issued or sold pursuant to any Registration Statement free of any restrictive legends and in such denominations and registered in such names as Holders may request.
(k) (i) Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by subsections (c)(ii) through (v) above, the Company shall promptly (or within the time period provided for by clause (ii) hereof, if applicable) prepare a post-effective amendment to the applicable Registration Statement or an amendment or supplement to the related Prospectus or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to Initial Purchasers of the securities included therein, the Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. In such circumstances, the period of effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement provided for in Section 2 shall be extended by the number of days from and including the date of the giving of a notice of suspension pursuant to Section 4(c) to and
 
including the date when the Initial Purchasers, the Holders of the Securities and any known Exchanging Dealer shall have received such amended or supplemented Prospectus pursuant to this Section.
(ii) Upon the occurrence or existence of any pending corporate development or any other material event that, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, makes it appropriate to suspend the availability of a Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus, the Company shall give notice (without notice of the nature or details of such events) to the Holders that the availability of the Shelf Registration is suspended and, upon actual receipt of any such notice, each Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration until such Holder's receipt of copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus provided for in Section 3(i) hereof, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that the Prospectus may be used, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference in such Prospectus. The period during which the availability of the Shelf Registration and any Prospectus is suspended (the "Deferral Period") shall not exceed 45 days in any three-month period or 90 days in any twelve-month period.
(l) Not later than the effective date of any Registration Statement, the Company shall provide a CUSIP number for the Securities or the New Securities, as the case may be, registered under such Registration Statement and provide the Trustee with printed certificates for such Securities or New Securities, in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company.
(m) The Company shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and shall make generally available to its security holders an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act as soon as practicable after the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement and in any event no later than 45 days after the end of a 12-month period (or 90 days, if such period is a fiscal year) beginning with the first month of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement.
(n) The Company shall cause the New Securities Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in a timely manner.
(o) The Company may require each Holder of securities to be sold pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the distribution of such securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably require for inclusion in such Registration Statement. The Company may exclude from such Shelf Registration Statement the Securities of any Holder that unreasonably fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request.
(p) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall enter into customary agreements (including, if requested, an underwriting agreement in customary form) and take all other appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or
 
the disposition of the Securities, and in connection therewith, if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to contain indemnification provisions and procedures no less favorable than those set forth in Section 6 hereof.
(q) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall:
(i) make reasonably available for inspection by the Holders of Securities to be registered thereunder, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Registration Statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by the Holders or any such underwriter all relevant financial and other records and pertinent corporate documents of the Company and its subsidiaries;
(ii) cause the Company's officers, directors, employees, accountants and auditors to supply all relevant information reasonably requested by the Holders or any such underwriter, attorney, accountant or agent in connection with any such Registration Statement as is customary for similar due diligence examinations;
(iii) make such representations and warranties to the Holders of Securities registered thereunder and the underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings and covering matters including, but not limited to, those set forth in the Purchase Agreement;
(iv) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Managing Underwriters, if any) addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering such matters as are customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters;
(v) obtain "comfort" letters and updates thereof from the independent certified public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included in the Registration Statement), addressed to each selling Holder of Securities registered thereunder and the underwriters, if any, in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with primary underwritten offerings; and
(vi) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Majority Holders or the Managing Underwriters, if any, including those to evidence compliance with Section 4(k) and with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company.
 
The actions set forth in clauses (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of this paragraph (q) shall be performed at (A) the effectiveness of such Registration Statement and each post-effective amendment thereto; and (B) each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder.
(r) In the case of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall, if requested by an Initial Purchaser, or by a broker dealer that holds Securities that were acquired as a result of market making or other trading activities:
(i) make reasonably available for inspection by the requesting party, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by the requesting party, all relevant financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries;
(ii) cause the Company's officers, directors, employees, accountants and auditors to supply all relevant information reasonably requested by the requesting party or any such attorney, accountant or agent in connection with any such Registration Statement as is customary for similar due diligence examinations;
(iii) make such representations and warranties to the requesting party, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings and covering matters including, but not limited to, those set forth in the Purchase Agreement;
(iv) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the requesting party and its counsel, addressed to the requesting party, covering such matters as are customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by the requesting party or its counsel;
(v) obtain "comfort" letters and updates thereof from the independent certified public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included in the Registration Statement), addressed to the requesting party, in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with primary underwritten offerings, or if requested by the requesting party or its counsel in lieu of a "comfort" letter, an agreed-upon procedures letter under Statement on Auditing Standards No. 35, covering matters requested by the requesting party or its counsel; and
(vi) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the requesting party or its counsel, including those to evidence compliance with Section 4(k) and with conditions customarily contained in underwriting agreements.
 
The foregoing actions set forth in clauses (iii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of this paragraph (r) shall be performed at the close of the Registered Exchange Offer and the effective date of any post-effective amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
(s) If a Registered Exchange Offer is to be consummated, upon delivery of the Securities by Holders to the Company (or to such other person as directed by the Company) in exchange for the New Securities, the Company shall mark, or caused to be marked, on the Securities so exchanged that such Securities are being cancelled in exchange for the New Securities. In no event shall the Securities be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied.
(t) The Company shall use its best efforts if the Securities have been rated prior to the initial sale of such Securities, to confirm such ratings will apply to the Securities or the New Securities, as the case may be, covered by a Registration Statement.
(u) In the event that any Broker-Dealer shall underwrite any Securities or participate as a member of an underwriting syndicate or selling group or "assist in the distribution" (within the meaning of the FINRA Rules) thereof, whether as a Holder of such Securities or as an underwriter, a placement or sales agent or a broker or dealer in respect thereof, or otherwise, the Company shall assist such Broker-Dealer in complying with the FINRA Rules.
(v) The Company shall use its best efforts to take all other steps necessary to effect the registration of the Securities or the New Securities, as the case may be, covered by a Registration Statement.
5. . The Company shall bear all expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations under Sections 2, 3 and 4 hereof and, in the event of any Shelf Registration Statement, will reimburse the Holders for the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm or counsel (which shall initially be Sidley Austin LLP but which may be another nationally recognized law firm experienced in securities matters designated by the Majority Holders) to act as counsel for the Holders in connection therewith, and, in the case of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, will reimburse the Initial Purchasers for the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel acting in connection therewith.
Registration Expenses
,
6. . (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, covered by any Registration Statement, each Initial Purchaser and, with respect to any Prospectus delivery as contemplated in Section 4(h) hereof, each Exchanging Dealer, the directors, officers, employees, Affiliates and agents of each such Holder, Initial Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer and each person who controls any such Holder, Initial Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based
Indemnification and Contribution
 
upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; , , that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of the party claiming indemnification specifically for inclusion therein. This indemnity agreement shall be in addition to any liability that the Company may otherwise have.
provided
however
The Company also agrees to indemnify as provided in this Section 6(a) or contribute as provided in Section 6(d) hereof to Losses of each underwriter, if any, of Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, registered under a Shelf Registration Statement, their directors, officers, employees, Affiliates or agents and each person who controls such underwriter on substantially the same basis as that of the indemnification of the Initial Purchasers and the selling Holders provided in this Section 6(a) and shall, if requested by any Holder, enter into an underwriting agreement reflecting such agreement, as provided in Section 4(p) hereof.
(b) Each Holder of securities covered by a Registration Statement (including each Initial Purchaser that is a Holder, in such capacity) severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signs such Registration Statement and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each such Holder, but only with reference to written information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that any such Holder may otherwise have.
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 6 or notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses; and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel (including local counsel) of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel, other than local counsel if not appointed by the indemnifying party,
 
retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); , that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel (including local counsel) to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding.
provided, however
(d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, then each applicable indemnifying party shall have a joint and several obligation to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending any loss, claim, liability, damage or action) (collectively "Losses") to which such indemnified party may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, from the Initial Placement and the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses; , , that in no case shall any Initial Purchaser be responsible, in the aggregate, for any amount in excess of the purchase discount or commission applicable to such Security, or in the case of a New Security, applicable to the Security that was exchangeable into such New Security, as set forth in the Final Memorandum, nor shall any underwriter be responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the securities purchased by such underwriter under the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the Initial Placement (before deducting expenses) as set forth in the Final Memorandum. Benefits received by the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed to be equal to the total purchase discounts and commissions as set forth on the cover page of the Final Memorandum, and benefits received by any other Holders shall be deemed to be equal to the value of receiving Securities or New Securities, as
provided
however
 
applicable, registered under the Act. Benefits received by any underwriter shall be deemed to be equal to the total underwriting discounts and commissions, as set forth on the cover page of the Prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or any alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the indemnifying party, on the one hand, or by the indemnified party, on the other hand, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section, each person who controls a Holder within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director, officer, employee and agent of such Holder shall have the same rights to contribution as such Holder, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
(e) The provisions of this Section will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or the Company or any of the indemnified persons referred to in this Section 6, and will survive the sale by a Holder of securities covered by a Registration Statement.
7. . (a) If any of the Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the Managing Underwriters shall be selected by the Majority Holders.
Underwritten Registrations
(b) No person may participate in any underwritten offering pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement, unless such person (i) agrees to sell such person's Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, on the basis reasonably provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements; and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
8. . If any of the following events shall occur, then the Company shall pay liquidated damages (the "Registration Default Damages") to the Holders of Securities in respect of the Securities as follows:
Registration Defaults
(a) if the Registered Exchange Offer required by this Agreement or, pursuant to the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement, the Registered Exchange Offer (as defined in the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement) with respect to the Initial Notes is not completed on or prior to the date specified for such completion in this Agreement and the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement, then Registration Default Damages shall accrue on the
 
Registrable Securities (as defined herein and in the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement) at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 60 days from and including such specified date and 0.50% per annum thereafter; or
(b) if any Shelf Registration Statement required by this Agreement or the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement is not declared effective by the Commission on or prior to the date by which best efforts are to be used to cause such effectiveness under this Agreement and the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement, then commencing on the day after such specified date, Registration Default Damages shall accrue on the Registrable Securities (as defined herein and in the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement) at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 60 days from and including such specified date and 0.50% per annum thereafter; or
(c) if any Shelf Registration Statement required by this Agreement or the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement has been declared effective but ceases to be effective at any time at which it is required to be effective under this Agreement, then commencing on the day such Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective, Registration Default Damages shall accrue on the Registrable Securities (as defined herein and in the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement) at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 60 days from and including such date on which the Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective and 0.50% per annum thereafter;
, , that (1) upon the completion of the Registered Exchange Offer (as defined herein and in the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement) (in the case of paragraph (a) above), (2) upon the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement (as defined herein and in the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement) (in the case of paragraph (b) above), or (3) upon the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement (as defined herein and in the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement) which had ceased to remain effective (in the case of paragraph (c) above), Registration Default Damages shall cease to accrue.
provided
however
Further to the foregoing and for the avoidance of doubt, the Company agrees that, to the extent it shall become obligated to pay Registration Default Damages (as defined herein and in the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement) in respect of the Initial Notes or the Securities, it shall pay Registration Default Damages (as defined herein and in the Initial Notes Registration Rights Agreement) in respect of both the Initial Notes and the Securities.
9. . The Company has not entered into, and agrees not to enter into, any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders herein or that otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements
10. . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities outstanding; that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Initial Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each such Initial Purchaser against which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent is
Amendments and Waivers
provided
 
to be effective; , , that no amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent with respect to Section 8 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registered Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder; and , , that the provisions of this Article 10 may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Initial Purchasers and each Holder. Notwithstanding the foregoing (except the foregoing provisos), a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may be given by the Majority Holders, determined on the basis of Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, being sold rather than registered under such Registration Statement.
provided
further
provided
further
11. . All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail, telex, telecopier or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
Notices
(a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such holder to the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11, which address initially is, with respect to each Holder, the address of such Holder maintained by the Registrar under the Indenture;
(b) if to the Representatives, initially at the address or addresses set forth in the Purchase Agreement; and
(c) if to the Company, initially at its address set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when received.
The Initial Purchasers or the Company by notice to the other parties may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
12. . Each Holder, in addition to being entitled to exercise all rights provided to it herein, in the Indenture or in the Purchase Agreement or granted by law, including recovery of liquidated or other damages, will be entitled to specific performance of its rights under this Agreement. The Company agrees that monetary damages would not be adequate compensation for any loss incurred by reason of a breach by it of the provisions of this Agreement and hereby agrees to waive in any action for specific performance the defense that a remedy at law would be adequate.
Remedies
13. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns, including, without the need for an express assignment or any consent by the Company thereto, subsequent Holders of Securities and the New Securities, and the indemnified persons referred to in Section 6 hereof. The Company hereby agrees to extend the benefits of this Agreement to any Holder of Securities and the New Securities, and any such Holder may specifically enforce the provisions of this Agreement as if an original party hereto.
Successors
 
14. . This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
15. . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
16. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York. The parties hereto each hereby waive any right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim arising out of or relating to this Agreement.
Applicable Law
17. . In the event that any one of more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstances, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way impaired or affected thereby, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Severability
18. Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of principal amount of Securities or New Securities is required hereunder, Securities or New Securities, as applicable, held by the Company or its Affiliates (other than subsequent Holders of Securities or New Securities if such subsequent Holders are deemed to be Affiliates solely by reason of their holdings of such Securities or New Securities) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
Securities Held by the Company, etc.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement between the Company and the several Initial Purchasers.
 
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and
accepted as of the date first above written.
 
For themselves and the other several
Initial Purchasers named in Schedule I
to the Purchase Agreement.
 
Each broker-dealer that receives new securities for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such new securities. The Letter of Transmittal states that by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, a broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act. This prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a broker-dealer in connection with resales of new securities received in exchange for securities where such securities were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The company has agreed that, starting on the expiration date and ending on the close of business one year after the expiration date, it will make this prospectus available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any such resale. See "Plan of Distribution."
 
Each broker-dealer that receives new securities for its own account in exchange for securities, where such securities were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such new securities. See "Plan of Distribution."
 
Each broker-dealer that receives New Securities for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such New Securities. This prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a broker-dealer in connection with resales of New Securities received in exchange for securities where such securities were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The company has agreed that, starting on the expiration date and ending on the close of business one year after the expiration date, it will make this prospectus, as amended or supplemented, available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any such resale. In addition, until , , all dealers effecting transactions in the New Securities may be required to deliver a prospectus.
                        
            
The company will not receive any proceeds from any sale of New Securities by brokers-dealers. New Securities received by broker-dealers for their own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer may be sold from time to time in one or more transactions in the over-the-counter market, in negotiated transactions, through the writing of options on the New Securities or a combination of such methods of resale, at market prices prevailing at the time of resale, at prices related to such prevailing market prices or negotiated prices. Any such resale may be made directly to purchasers or to or through brokers or dealers who may receive compensation in the form of commissions or concessions from any such broker-dealer and/or the purchasers of any such New Securities. Any broker-dealer that resells New Securities that were received by it for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer and any broker or dealer that participates in a distribution of such New Securities may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act and any profit of any such resale of New Securities and any commissions or concessions received by any such persons may be deemed to be underwriting compensation under the Act. The Letter of Transmittal states that by acknowledging that it will deliver and by delivering a prospectus, a broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.
For a period of one year after the expiration date, the company will promptly send additional copies of this prospectus and any amendment or supplement to this prospectus to any broker-dealer that requests such documents in the Letter of Transmittal. The company has agreed to pay all expenses incident to the Exchange Offer (including the expenses of one counsel for the holder of the securities) other than commissions or concessions of any brokers or dealers and will indemnify the holders of the securities (including any broker-dealers) against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Act.
If applicable, add information required by Regulation S-K Items 507 and/or 508.
[
]
 
Rider A
PLEASE FILL IN YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS BELOW IF YOU ARE A BROKER-DEALER AND WISH TO RECEIVE 10 ADDITIONAL COPIES OF THE PROSPECTUS AND 10 COPIES OF ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO.
 
Rider B
If the undersigned is not a Broker-Dealer, the undersigned represents that it acquired the New Securities in the ordinary course of its business, it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of New Securities and it has no arrangements or understandings with any person to participate in a distribution of the New Securities. If the undersigned is a Broker-Dealer that will receive New Securities for its own account in exchange for Securities, it represents that the Securities to be exchange for New Securities were acquired by it as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and acknowledges that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such New Securities; however, by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, the undersigned will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.
 


