FILE:JBL/JBL-8K-20090722163724.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On July 16, 2009, the board of directors (the "Board") of Jabil Circuit, Inc. (the "Company") accepted Laurence S. Grafstein's resignation as a director of the Company that was submitted in connection with Mr. Grafstein's recent change in employment. Mr. Grafstein's resignation will be effective at the end of the Company's current fiscal year, August 31, 2009.
(d) Also on July 16, 2009, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, appointed David M. Stout to serve as a member of the Board, effective September 1, 2009. As of the date of filing this Current Report on Form 8-K, Mr. Stout has not yet been named to any of the Board's committees. Because Mr. Grafstein currently serves on the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board's Compensation Committee, his resignation from the Board will create vacancies on these committees. While, as of the date of filing this Current Report on Form 8-K, the Board has not made a decision, it may decide in the future to appoint Mr. Stout to fill one or both of these vacancies.
As a result of his appointment to the Board, Mr. Stout will receive the same cash compensation that non-employee members of the Board receive, which is currently: (i) $58,000 in annual compensation, payable quarterly and (ii) reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with attendance at Board meetings. If Mr. Stout is appointed to one or more of the Board's committees, then he will receive the cash compensation that the Board's non-employee members currently receive for such service. In addition, in October 2009, the Board, along with its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Compensation Committee, will consider whether to grant annual equity-based awards to the non-employee members of the Board (each such non-employee director received a restricted stock award of 16,475 shares in October 2008, 1/8th of which vest every six months) and may establish the cash compensation for the service of non-employee directors on the Board and its committees for the coming fiscal year.
Other than the compensation from the registrant set forth in the preceding paragraph, no arrangement or understanding exists between Mr. Stout and any other persons, pursuant to which Mr. Stout was elected as a director. In addition, no related party transactions involving Mr. Stout that are reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K exist.
 
On July 22, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing the resignation of Mr. Grafstein from, and the appointment of Mr. Stout to, the Board. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information furnished herewith pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including those regarding Jabil's Board of Directors. These statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involving risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: such factors that we may not have currently identified or quantified; and other risks, relevant factors and uncertainties identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2008, subsequent Reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and our other securities filings. Jabil disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Jabil Circuit, Inc. (NYSE: JBL) today announced that its Board of Directors has accepted Laurence S. Grafstein's resignation as a director and has appointed David M. Stout to serve as a member of the Board.
St. Petersburg, FL  July 22, 2009 - -
Grafstein was recently named managing director and co-head of U.S. mergers and acquisitions for the investment banking firm of Rothschild, Inc. Per Jabil's corporate governance guidelines, Grafstein submitted his resignation in connection with his change in employment. "Unfortunately, Larry's new responsibilities, combined with the broadening time requirements of the Jabil board, make it impractical for him to remain on the board. We thank Larry for his significant contributions over the past seven years. He has offered invaluable counsel to the company through his participation on the compensation committee, as well as our nominating and corporate governance committee," said Jabil's Chairman of the Board, William D. Morean. Grafstein has served as a Jabil director since April 2002. Grafstein's resignation is effective at the end of the Jabil's current fiscal year, August 31, 2009.
Upon the recommendation of the Jabil Board of Directors' nominating and corporate governance committee, David M. Stout was appointed to serve as a member of Jabil's board, effective September 1, 2009. Stout has not yet been named to any of the board's committees.
A top-level pharmaceutical executive nationally and internationally for the past 30 years, David M. Stout is currently retired. Stout was most recently president of pharmaceutical operations for GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals. In this capacity, Stout led global commercial activities, global manufacturing and all vaccine-related activities, including research and development. Prior to his tenure at GSK, Stout served in various executive roles at SmithKline Beecham and Schering-Plough Corporation. Stout currently serves on the board of directors for Airgas Incorporated, NanoBio Pharmaceuticals and Allos Therapeutics.
About Jabil
Jabil is an electronic product solutions company providing comprehensive electronics design, manufacturing and product management services to global electronics and technology companies. Jabil helps bring electronics products to the market faster and more cost effectively by providing complete global product supply chain management. With more than 85,000 employees and facilities in 22 countries, Jabil provides comprehensive, individualized-focused solutions to customers in a broad range of industries. Jabil common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol, "JBL". Further information is available on the company's website: jabil.com.
Investor & Media Contact:
Beth Walters
Vice President, Investor Relations
Jabil Circuit, Inc.
(727) 803-3349
investor_relations@jabil.com


