FILE:JBL/JBL-8K-20090812162928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 11, 2009, Jabil Circuit, Inc. (the "Company") completed its offering (the "Offering") of an aggregate principal amount of $312.0 million 7.75% senior unsecured notes due 2016 (the "Notes") pursuant to the Company's registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration Statement No. 333-154835), which was automatically effective when filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 29, 2008 (the "Registration Statement").
The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of January 16, 2008, by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Indenture"), as supplemented by the Officers' Certificate dated August 11, 2009, that was delivered by certain of the Company's officers pursuant to Sections 1.2, 3.1 and 3.3 of the Indenture (the "Officers' Certificate").
The Notes will mature on July 15, 2016. Interest on the Notes will be payable on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2010. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations.
The Company may redeem all or any part of the Notes at its option at any time prior to their maturity by paying a redemption price equal to the greater of (plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but not including, the redemption date): (i) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments on the Notes discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a government treasury rate plus 50 basis points.
The Indenture contains certain covenants, including, but not limited to, covenants limiting the Company's ability and/or its subsidiaries' ability to: create certain liens; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create, incur, issue, assume or guarantee any funded debt (applicable only to the Company's "restricted subsidiaries"); guarantee any of the Company's indebtedness (applicable only to the Company's subsidiaries); and consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its assets to another person. The Indenture also contains a covenant regarding the repurchase by the Company of the Notes upon a "change of control repurchase event."
The Company used all of the Offering's net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to pay for the $294.9 million aggregate principal amount of the 5.875% Senior Notes due July 15, 2010 that have been validly tendered, and accepted for purchase, pursuant to the Company's previously announced cash tender offer (the "Tender Offer"), along with the early tender premium, accrued interest and associated fees and expenses.
The foregoing descriptions of the Form of Note, Indenture and Officers' Certificate are qualified in their entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of such documents, copies of which are filed and attached hereto Exhibits 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3, respectively, incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01 and incorporated by reference, as necessary, into the Registration Statement.
 
The information included in Item 1.01 of this Current Report is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
On August 11, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing the closing of the Offering and the results to date of the Tender Offer. A copy of the press release is filed and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY. UNLESS THIS SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (THE "DEPOSITORY") TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
THIS SECURITY IS ISSUED WITH ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT FOR PURPOSES OF SECTION 1271 ET SEQ. OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED. A HOLDER MAY OBTAIN THE ISSUE PRICE, AMOUNT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT, ISSUE DATE AND YIELD TO MATURITY FOR SUCH NOTES BY SUBMITTING A REQUEST FOR SUCH INFORMATION TO THE ISSUER AT THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS: JABIL CIRCUIT, INC., 10560 DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. STREET, ST. PETERSBURG, FL 33716 ATTENTION: GENERAL COUNSEL.
 
CUSIP: 466313AE3
JABIL CIRCUIT, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of THREE HUNDRED TWELVE MILLION DOLLARS ($312,000,000) on July 15, 2016 ("") and to pay interest thereon from August 11, 2009 or from the most recent date in respect of which interest has been paid or duly provided for, on January 15 and August 15 of each year (each, an ""), commencing January 15, 2010, and at Stated Maturity or upon such other date on which the principal of this Note becomes due and payable, whether by declaration of acceleration, notice of redemption or otherwise, and including any Redemption Date or Change in Control Purchase Date (each such date, ""), at the rate of 7.75% per annum (which interest rate may be adjusted as set forth on the reverse hereof), until the principal hereof and premium, if any, hereon is paid or duly made available for payment and on any overdue principal or premium, if any, and (to the extent that payout of such interest is lawful) on any overdue installment of interest at the same rate per annum during the period in which such principal or premium, if any, or interest remains unpaid. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture referred to below, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered as of the close of business on January 1 or July 1, as the case may be (whether or not a Business Day), immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date (each such date, a ""). Any such interest that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder of this Note on such Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Note not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
Company
Stated Maturity
Interest Payment Date
Maturity
Regular Record Date
Payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, this Note will be made at the office or agency maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the related record date; , that, notwithstanding anything else contained herein, if this Note is a Global Security and is held in book-entry form through the facilities of the Depository, payments on this Note will be made to the Depository or its nominee in accordance with the arrangements then in effect between the Trustee and the Depository.
provided
however
provided further
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the succeeding pages hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, JABIL CIRCUIT, INC. has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein, referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company issued under an Indenture, dated as of January 16, 2008 (the ""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), designated as the 7.75% Senior Notes due 2016 (the ""), limited to $312,000,000 aggregate principal amount, subject to the provisions of the Indenture. Reference is made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. All terms used in this Note set forth below which are not defined herein and which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Trustee
Notes
The Indenture provides for the defeasance of the Notes and certain covenants in certain circumstances.
This Note is unsecured as to payment of principal and premium, if any, and interest, and ranks pari passu with all other unsecured senior indebtedness of the Company.
Interest payments on this Note will include interest accrued to but excluding the applicable Interest Payment Date or Maturity hereof, as the case may be. Interest payments for this Note shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
In the case where the applicable Interest Payment Date or Maturity with respect hereto, as the case may be, does not fall on a Business Day, payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest otherwise payable on such day need not be made on such day, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or at Maturity and, unless the Company defaults on such payment, no interest shall accrue with respect to such payment for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date or such Maturity, as the case may be, to the date of payment on such next succeeding Business Day. "Business Day" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York.
The Notes will not be subject to any sinking fund and, except as provided in the Indenture or herein, will not be redeemable or repayable prior to their Stated Maturity.
The Notes are redeemable as a whole or in part, at the Company's option at any time, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes being redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest on the Notes being redeemed, discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 0.50% (50 basis points), plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes to, but not including, the Redemption Date. The Company will, however, pay the interest installment due on any Interest Payment Date that occurs on or before a Redemption Date to the Holders as of the close of business on the Regular Record Date immediately preceding that Interest Payment Date.
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity (computed as of the third business day immediately preceding that Redemption Date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the arithmetic average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the arithmetic average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. or Citigroup Global Markets Inc., or their respective successors as may be appointed from time to time by the Trustee after consultation with the Company; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing ceases to be a primary United States Treasury securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Independent Investment Banker
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., and two other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Company, and each of their respective successors and any other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the arithmetic average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer as of 3:30 p.m., New York City Time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to any Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; , that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided, however
If (a) the Company shall have on any date (the "") consolidated with or merged into, or conveyed or transferred or leased its properties and assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any Person which is organized under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, (b) as result of any change in or any amendment to the laws, regulations or published tax rulings of such jurisdiction, or of any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein, affecting taxation, or any change in the official administration, application or interpretation of such laws, regulations or published tax rulings either generally or in relation to the Notes, which change or amendment becomes effective after the Succession Date or which change in official administration, application or interpretation shall not have been available to the public on or prior to such Succession Date and is notified to the Company, such continuing Person would be required to pay any Successor Additional Amounts pursuant to the Indenture or the terms of the Notes in respect of any payments that it may be required to make with respect to any Notes and (c) such obligation cannot be avoided by the Company or such continuing Person taking reasonable measures available to it, the Company or such continuing Person may at its option redeem all (but not less than all) of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' written notice as provided in the Indenture, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption; , that (a) no such notice of redemption may be given earlier than 60 days prior to the earliest date on which a continuing Person would be obligated to pay such Successor Additional Amounts were a payment then due in respect of the Notes, and (b) at the time any such redemption notice is given, such obligation to pay such Successor Additional Amounts must remain in effect.
Succession Date
provided however
Holders of Notes to be redeemed will be given notice of redemption, at their addresses as set forth in the Security Register for the Notes, at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. If less than all the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by lot by the Depository, in the case of Notes represented by a Global Security, or by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in the case of the Notes that are not represented by a Global Security.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portion thereof called for redemption.
The payment of principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on, or in respect of, this Note shall be deemed to include the payment of Successor Additional Amounts provided for in the Indenture or herein to the extent that, in such context, Successor Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the Indenture or this Note.
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, if on or prior to Maturity there shall have occurred a Change of Control Repurchase Event, unless the Company shall have redeemed the Notes prior to such occurrence, the Company shall, at the option of the Holders thereof, purchase all or any part (in excess of $2,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Notes for which a Change of Control Purchase Notice shall have been delivered as provided in the Indenture and not withdrawn by a date which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date that a Repurchase Offer Notice is mailed with respect to the occurrence of such Change of Control, at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to, but not including, the Change in Control Purchase Date.
Any Holder delivering a Change of Control Purchase Notice shall have the right to withdraw such Change of Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to or on the Change of Control Purchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
If any Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
As set forth in, and subject to the provisions of, the Indenture, no Holder of any Note shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to the Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any remedy thereunder, unless (i) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Notes, (ii) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute such proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee thereunder, (iii) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee such indemnity as is reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request, (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding and (v) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes; ,, that such limitations do not apply to a proceeding instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of, any premium and (subject to certain provisions of the Indenture) interest on, and, if applicable, the Change of Control Purchase Price or any Additional Amounts with respect to, this Note on the respective Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed herein, or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date or, in the case of repayment at the option of the Holder, on the date such repayment is due, or, in the case of a Change of Control or as to any Change of Control Purchase Notice given timely, on the Change of Control Purchase Date.
provided
however
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Notes at any time by the Company and the Trustee by entering into an indenture or indentures supplemental thereto with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes. The Indenture also permits the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes, to prospectively waive compliance by the Company with certain restrictive provisions of the Indenture and to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange for or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
No reference to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and premium, if any, and any interest on this Note at the times, places and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
The Notes are issuable only in fully registered form in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Note is exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series and of like tenor of any authorized denomination,
as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any interest on this Note are payable or at such other offices or agencies as the Company may designate, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to, the Company and the Security Registrar or any transfer agent duly executed by the registered owner hereof or his/her attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount and Stated Maturity will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
Subject to the terms of the Indenture, prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of this Note, but, subject to certain limitations set forth in the Indenture, the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Indenture and this Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to agreements made or instruments entered into and, in each case, performed in said State.
This Note shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been executed by the Trustee.
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto
 
the within Note and all rights thereunder and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint the aforesaid assignee attorney to transfer the within Note on the books kept for registration thereof, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears upon the face of the within Note in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. When assignment is made by a guardian, trustee, executor or administrator, an officer of a corporation, or anyone in a representative capacity, proof of his or her authority to act must accompany the Note. The signature must be guaranteed by an Institution which is a member of one of the following recognized signature Guarantee Programs: (i) the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP); (ii) the New York Stock Exchange Inc. Medallion Signature Program (MSP); (iii) the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program (SEMP); or (iv) in such other guarantee program acceptable to the Trustee.
The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 

Exhibit 4.3
We, the undersigned, being respectively the President and the Chief Financial Officer of Jabil Circuit, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), hereby certify to The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), pursuant to and in accordance with Sections 1.2, 3.1 and 3.3 of the Indenture, dated as of January 16, 2008 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee, that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings specified in the Indenture or the Specimen Note. The foregoing terms of the Notes are qualified by the complete text of the Specimen Note and Annex I hereto, which are attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Each of the undersigned has read all of the conditions relating to the execution, authentication and delivery of the Notes contained in the Indenture and the definitions therein relating thereto, has read the certified copies of the board and committee resolutions attached hereto and has examined the Specimen Note attached hereto. In the opinion of each of the undersigned he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not all such conditions precedent have been complied with and, in the opinion of each of the undersigned, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
Insofar as this certificate relates to legal matters, it is based, as provided for in Section 1.3 of the Indenture, upon the Opinion of Counsel delivered to the Trustee contemporaneously herewith pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Indenture and relating to the Notes.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have signed our names as of this 11th day of August, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the completion of the Tender Offer. These statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involving risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the failure of the Tender Offer's conditions to be satisfied or waived prior to the Tender Offer's expiration; our inability, for whatever reason, to close on the Tender Offer and other risks, relevant factors and uncertainties identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2008, subsequent Reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and our other securities filings. Jabil disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
- Jabil Circuit, Inc. (NYSE:JBL) announced today the closing of its offering of 312.0 million 7.75% senior unsecured notes due 2016 (the "Offering"). The Offering resulted in net proceeds to the Company, after deducting underwriting discounts and estimated expenses, of approximately $293.0 million.
St. Petersburg, FLAugust 11, 2009
$
Jabil also announced today that it has accepted for purchase $294.9 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.875% Senior Notes due 2010 (the "5.875% Notes"), or 98.3% of the total outstanding, which were validly tendered prior to the early tender deadline of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on August 10, 2009 (the "Early Tender Deadline"), pursuant to Jabil's previously announced cash tender offer (the "Tender Offer"). Jabil's total obligations for the Tender Offer equal $305.4 million (the "Total Consideration"), and consist of: (i) $294.9 million of base consideration for the aggregate principal amount of the 5.875% Notes tendered pursuant to the Tender Offer; (ii) $1.3 million of accrued and unpaid interest on the tendered 5.875% Notes; and (iii) $9.2 million of early tender premium. Jabil used all of the Offering's net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to pay the Total Consideration.
As previously announced, the Tender Offer will expire at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on August 24, 2009, unless extended or earlier terminated. Also as previously announced, those who tender their 5.875% Notes prior to the expiration of the Tender Offer will receive any accrued and unpaid interest on the 5.875% Notes up to, but not including, the payment date, but only those who tendered their 5.875% Notes prior to the Early Tender Deadline received an early tender premium of $31.25 per $1,000 principal amount of the 5.875% Notes.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. acted as joint book-running managers for the Offering.
This press release is for informational purposes only and is not an offer to buy or the solicitation of an offer to sell with respect to any securities. The Tender Offer is only being made pursuant to the terms of the Offer to Purchase and the related Letter of Transmittal, each dated as of July 28, 2009. The Tender Offer is not being made in any jurisdiction in which the making or acceptance thereof would not be in compliance with the securities, blue sky or other laws of such jurisdiction. None of Jabil, the dealer manager, the information agent, the depositary or their respective affiliates is making any recommendation as to whether or not holders should tender all or any portion of their 5.875% Notes in the Tender Offer.
Jabil has engaged J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. to act as dealer managers for the Tender Offer, IPREO to act as information agent for the Tender Offer and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. to serve as depositary for the Tender Offer. Requests for documents may be directed to IPREO at (877) 746-3583 (toll free), or in writing to 111 River Street, 10
th
Floor, Hoboken, New Jersey, 07030, Attention: Aaron Dougherty. Questions regarding the offer may be directed to J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at (800) 245-8812 (toll free) or (212) 270-3994 (collect); Citigroup Global Markets Inc. at (800) 558-3745 (toll free) or (212) 723-6106 (collect); or RBS Securities Inc. at (877) 297-9832 (toll free) or (203) 897-6145 (collect).
About Jabil
Jabil is an electronic product solutions company providing comprehensive electronics design, manufacturing and product management services to global electronics and technology companies. Jabil common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol, "JBL". Further information is available on the company's website: jabil.com.
Investor & Media Contact:
Beth Walters
Vice President, Investor Relations
Jabil Circuit, Inc.
(727) 803-3349
investor_relations@jabil.com


