FILE:JBL/JBL-8K-20100323161120.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          On March 23, 2010, Jabil Circuit, Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The information furnished herewith pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including those regarding our anticipated financial results for our second fiscal quarter, our ability to sustain the positive trends in margin expansion and revenue growth for the balance of fiscal 2010, the continuation of the positive momentum in our business, our outlook for fiscal 2010, our intention and our ability to continue to focus on customer service, cost efficient operations, and expansion of our capabilities and market, and our currently expected third quarter of fiscal year 2010 net revenue, core operating income, core and GAAP earnings per share results and the components thereof. The statements in this news release are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involving risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: our determination as we finalize our financial results for our second fiscal quarter that our financial results and conditions differ from our current preliminary unaudited numbers set forth herein; adverse changes in the demand, or expected demand, of our customers; adverse changes in current macro-economic conditions, both in the U.S. and internationally; our financial performance during and after the current economic conditions; our ability to maintain and improve costs, quality and delivery for our customers; risks and costs inherent in litigation, including any pending or future litigation relating to our past stock option grants, the restatement of our financial statements as a result of the evaluation of our historical stock option practices or any declines in the price of our stock; whether our realignment of our capacity will adversely affect our cost structure, ability to service customers and labor relations; our ability to successfully address the challenges associated with integrating our acquisition of Green Point; our ability to take advantage of perceived benefits of offering customers vertically integrated services; changes in technology; competition; anticipated growth for us and our industry that may not occur; managing rapid growth; managing rapid declines in customer demand that may occur; our ability to successfully consummate acquisitions; managing the integration of businesses we acquire; risks associated with international sales and operations; retaining key personnel; our dependence on a limited number of large customers; business and competitive factors generally affecting the electronic manufacturing services industry, our customers and our business; other factors that we may not have currently identified or quantified; and other risks, relevant factors and uncertainties identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2009, subsequent Reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and our other securities filings. Jabil disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
...Jabil Circuit, Inc. (NYSE: JBL), reported its preliminary, unaudited financial results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, ended February 28, 2010. "Results for the quarter indicate significant year-over-year margin expansion on modest revenue growth. We are gaining confidence that these positive trends may be sustained for the balance of the year," said Timothy L. Main, President and CEO.
St. Petersburg, FL  March 23, 2010
(Definitions used: "GAAP" means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Jabil defines core operating income as GAAP operating income before amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and impairment charges, goodwill impairment charges, certain distressed customer charges and loss on disposal of subsidiary. Jabil defines core earnings as GAAP net income before amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and impairment charges, goodwill impairment charges, certain distressed customer charges, loss on disposal of subsidiary, certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges. Jabil defines core earnings per share as core earnings divided by the weighted average number of outstanding shares determined under GAAP. Jabil reports core operating income, core earnings and core earnings per share to provide investors with an alternative method for assessing operating income, earnings and earnings per share from what it believes are its core manufacturing operations. See the accompanying reconciliation of Jabil's core operating income to its GAAP operating income and Jabil's core earnings and core earnings per share to its GAAP net income and GAAP earnings per share and additional information in the supplemental information.)
Second Quarter 2010
Net revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was $3.0 billion compared to $2.9 billion for the same period of fiscal 2009.
GAAP results
:
GAAP operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was $61.8 million compared to a loss of $705.6 million for the same period of fiscal 2009.
 
Jabil Earnings Release March 23, 2010
GAAP net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was $29.8 million compared to a net loss of $866.1 million for the same period of fiscal 2009.
GAAP diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was $0.14 compared to a loss per share of $4.19 for the same period of fiscal 2009.
Core results:
Core operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was $95.6 million or 3.2 percent of net revenue compared to $51.2 million or 1.8 percent of net revenue for the same period of fiscal 2009.
Core earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 were $63.3 million compared to $27.3 million for the same period of fiscal 2009.
Core diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was $0.29 compared to $0.13 for the same period of fiscal 2009.
Sequential Second Quarter Fiscal 2010
Jabil's second fiscal quarter is normally a sequentially down quarter due to the seasonally driven slowdown in consumer spending.)
Operational Highlights
(Note:
Balance Sheet Highlights
Business Update
"The positive momentum in the business has solidified and we believe fiscal 2010 should be an excellent year for Jabil. We intend to continue our focus on customer service, cost efficient operations, and expansion of our capabilities and market," said Timothy L. Main, President and CEO.
Jabil management indicated that it expects its net revenue for its third quarter of fiscal 2010 to increase 3 to 10 percent, ranging from $3.1 billion to $3.3 billion. Jabil estimated that its core operating income for the quarter will grow 4 to 25 percent, ranging from $100 million to $120 million. Jabil indicated that it expects its core earnings per share for its third quarter of fiscal 2010 to improve 3 to 24 percent, ranging from $0.30 to $0.36 per diluted share. GAAP earnings per share are expected to be in a range from $0.14 to $0.25 per diluted share. (GAAP earnings or loss per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 is currently estimated to include $0.03 per share for amortization of intangibles; $0.07 to $0.12 per share for stock-based compensation and related charges; and $0.01 per share for restructuring.)
 
Jabil Earnings Release March 23, 2010
Supplemental Information
The financial results disclosed in this release include certain measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition to the GAAP financial measures, Jabil provides supplemental, non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate evaluation of Jabil's core operating performance. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release exclude certain amounts that are included in the most directly comparable GAAP measures. The non-GAAP or core financial measures disclosed in this release do not have standard meanings and may vary from the non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Management believes core financial measures (which exclude the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and impairment charges, goodwill impairment charges, certain distressed customer charges, loss on disposal of subsidiary, certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges) are a useful measure that facilitates evaluating the past and future performance of Jabil's ongoing operations on a comparable basis. Jabil reports core operating income, core return on invested capital, core earnings and core earnings per share to provide investors with an alternative method for assessing operating income, earnings and earnings per share from what it believes are its core manufacturing operations. Included in this release are Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as well as a reconciliation of the disclosed core financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Company Conference Call Information
Jabil will hold a conference call to discuss the second fiscal quarter 2010 earnings today at 4:30 p.m. ET live on the Internet at . The earnings conference call will be recorded and archived for playback on the web at . A taped replay of the conference call will also be available March 23, 2010 at approximately 7:30 p.m. ET through midnight on March 30, 2010. To access the replay, call (800) 642-1687 from within the United States, or (706) 645-9291 outside the United States. The pass code is 63210269. An archived webcast of the conference call will be available at .
http://www.jabil.com
http://www.jabil.com
http://www.jabil.com/investors/
About Jabil
Jabil is an electronic product solutions company providing comprehensive electronics design, manufacturing and product management services to global electronics and technology companies. Offering complete product supply chain management from facilities in 22 countries, Jabil provides comprehensive, individualized-focused solutions to customers in a broad range of industries. Jabil common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol, "JBL". Further information is available on Jabil's website: jabil.com.
Investor & Media Contact: Beth Walters Vice President, Investor Relations & Communications Jabil Circuit, Inc. (727) 803-3511 beth_walters@jabil.com
 
 
 


