FILE:JBL/JBL-8K-20110329164136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     (d) On March 24, 2011, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, appointed Martha F. Brooks to serve as a member of the Board, effective immediately. While Ms. Brooks has not yet been named to any of the Board's committees, the Board, upon the expected recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, is expected, at its meeting currently scheduled for July 2011, to consider appointing Ms. Brooks to the Board's Audit Committee.
     As a result of her appointment to the Board, Ms. Brooks will receive the same cash compensation that non-employee members of the Board receive (pro rated for the period of her service as a Board member), which is currently: (i) $58,000 in annual compensation, payable quarterly and (ii) reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with attendance at Board meetings. If Ms. Brooks is appointed to one or more of the Board's committees, then she will receive the cash compensation that the Board's non-employee members currently receive for such service. In addition, at its meeting currently scheduled for April 14, 2011, the Compensation Committee, upon the recommendation of the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, will consider granting Ms. Brooks 6,000 time-based restricted stock units subject to forfeiture and transfer restrictions which shall lapse at the rate of 100% of the shares related to the restricted stock units on August 31, 2011.
     Other than the compensation from the registrant set forth in the preceding paragraph, no arrangement or understanding exists between Ms. Brooks and any other persons, pursuant to which Ms. Brooks was elected as a director. In addition, no related party transactions involving Ms. Brooks that are reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K exist.
     On March 29, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Ms. Brooks to the Board. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The information furnished herewith pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
(d) Exhibits.
     The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including those regarding our continuing to drive shareholder value. These statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involving risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in current macro-economic conditions, both in the U.S. and internationally; the current developing situation in Japan and its effects on our Japanese facility, supply chain, shipping costs, customers and suppliers; our financial performance during and after the current economic conditions; our ability to maintain and improve costs, quality and delivery for our customers; risks and costs inherent in litigation; whether our realignment of our capacity will adversely affect our cost structure, ability to service customers and labor relations; our ability to take advantage of perceived benefits of offering customers vertically integrated services; changes in technology; competition; anticipated growth for us and our industry that may not occur; managing rapid growth; managing rapid declines in customer demand that may occur; our ability to successfully consummate acquisitions and divestitures; managing the integration of businesses we acquire (including, with respect to the acquisition of the Italian and French sites, potential unknown liabilities, the finalization of our accounting for the transaction and the costs associated with addressing potential reduced business activity at these sites); risks associated with international sales and operations; retaining key personnel; our dependence on a limited number of large customers; business and competitive factors generally affecting the electronic manufacturing services industry, our customers and our business; other factors that we may not have currently identified or quantified; and other risks, relevant factors and uncertainties identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010, subsequent Reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and our other securities filings. Jabil disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The Jabil Circuit, Inc. Board of Directors has announced the addition of Martha Finn Brooks to serve as a member of the Board, effective on March 24, 2011.
St. Petersburg, FL March 29, 2011 
"We are pleased to add Martha Brooks to the Jabil Board of Directors," said William Morean, Jabil's Chairman of the Board. "Ms. Brooks' extensive international and operational experience as well as her familiarity on boards of other publicly-traded companies brings great expertise to the Jabil Board."
"I look forward to joining the entrepreneurial team at Jabil as the company continues to drive shareholder value in the dynamic world of electronics design and manufacture," said Ms. Brooks.
Brooks is currently a Director of Bombardier Inc. and Harley-Davidson, Inc. She was also a Director of International Paper from 2003 to 2009. From 2007 to 2009, Brooks served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Novelis Inc., a global leader in aluminum rolling and recycling. She served as Chief Operating Officer of Novelis from 2005 to 2007, after Alcan, Inc. completed a spinoff of Novelis. From 2002 to 2004, Brooks served as CEO, Americas and Asia Rolled Products Business and Senior Vice President of Alcan Inc. In addition, she was Vice President of Cummins Inc. from 1996 to 2002. Brooks holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science and an M.B.A. in International Business from Yale University.
"We have structured Jabil's Board with progressive corporate governance practices, including having a majority of the directors independent from Jabil," commented Morean. The addition of Brooks to the Jabil Board means eight of the nine board members are independent under applicable NYSE standards.
About Jabil
Jabil is an electronic product solutions company providing comprehensive electronics design, manufacturing and product management services to global electronics and technology companies. Jabil helps bring electronics
 
products to the market faster and more cost effectively by providing complete product supply chain management around the world. With more than 85,000 employees and facilities in 22 countries, Jabil provides comprehensive, individualized-focused solutions to customers in a broad range of industries. Jabil common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol, "JBL". Further information is available on the company's website: http://www.jabil.com.
Investor & Media Contact: Beth Walters Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Jabil Circuit, Inc. (727) 803-3511


