FILE:JBL/JBL-8K-20120322164639.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 19, 2012, Jabil Circuit, Inc. (the "Company") entered into an amended and restated senior unsecured five year credit agreement (the "Agreement"). The Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility in the initial amount of $1.3 billion, which may, subject to lenders' discretion, potentially be increased up to $1.6 billion (the "Facility"). The Agreement was entered into among the Company; the initial lenders named therein; Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and Bank of America, N.A., as documentation agents. Most of the lenders under the Facility and their affiliates have various other relationships with the Company and its subsidiaries involving the provision of financial services, including cash management, loans, letter of credit and bank guarantee facilities, investment banking and trust services. The Company and some of its subsidiaries have entered into foreign exchange contracts and other derivative arrangements with certain of the lenders and their affiliates. In addition, most of the agents and lenders under the Facility held positions as agent and/or lender under the Company's Existing Credit Agreement, as defined below. The Facility terminates on March 19, 2017. Interest and fees on Facility advances are based on the Company's non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt rating as determined by Standard & Poor's Rating Service and Moody's Investor Service. Interest is charged at a rate equal to either 0.175% to 0.850% above the base rate or 1.175% to 1.850% above the Eurocurrency rate, where the base rate represents the greatest of Citibank, N.A.'s prime rate, 0.50% above the federal funds rate, and 1.0% above one-month LIBOR, and the Eurocurrency rate represents adjusted LIBOR for the applicable interest period, each as more fully described in the Agreement. Fees include a facility fee based on the revolving credit commitments of the lenders and a letter of credit fee based on the amount of outstanding letters of credit. Based on the Company's current non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt rating as determined by Standard & Poor's Rating Service and Moody's Investor Service, the current rate of interest would be 0.45% above the base rate or 1.45% above the Eurocurrency rate. The Facility includes various covenants, limitations and events of default customary for similar facilities for similarly rated borrowers. As of the date of filing this Current Report on Form 8-K, draws in the approximate amount of $520.0 million in revolving credit advances have been made and are outstanding under the Facility.
The Agreement amends and restates the Company's amended and restated five year credit agreement dated December 7, 2010 (the "Existing Credit Agreement"), which established a revolving credit facility in the initial amount of $1.0 billion, subject to potential increases up to $1.3 billion, and was to terminate on December 7, 2015. The Existing Credit Agreement was entered into among the Company; the initial lenders named therein; Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and Bank of America, N.A., as documentation agents.
Most of the lenders under the Existing Credit Agreement, and their affiliates, have various other relationships with the Company and its subsidiaries involving the provision of financial services, including cash management, loans, letter of credit and bank guarantee facilities, investment banking and trust services. The Company and some of its subsidiaries have entered into foreign exchange contracts and other derivative arrangements with certain of the lenders and their affiliates. In addition, most of the agents and lenders under the Existing Credit Agreement hold positions as agent and/or lender under the Agreement.
The foregoing description of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of the Agreement, which will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its fiscal quarter ending February 29, 2012.
 
To the extent that entering into the Agreement constituted a termination of the Existing Credit Agreement, the information included in Item 1.01 of this Report relating to such termination is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.02.
 
The information included in Item 1.01 of this Report is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 


