FILE:JBL/JBL-8K-20121018132638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 
(727) 577-9749
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On October 16, 2012, William D. Morean, the current Chairman of the board of directors (the "Board") of Jabil Circuit, Inc. (the "Company"), notified the Board of his decision to not stand for re-election to the Board at the next annual meeting of the Company's stockholders, currently scheduled for January 24, 2013. Mr. Morean will continue to serve out his current term as a Board member and as Chairman of the Board until the next annual meeting of the Company's stockholders. Mr. Morean's decision to not stand for re-election to the Board was not based upon any disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to the Company's operations, policies or practices as contemplated by Item 5.02(a) of Form 8-K.
On October 16, 2012, at its regularly-scheduled meeting, the Board determined its intention to appoint Timothy L. Main, if elected as a director at the next annual meeting of the Company's stockholders, to succeed Mr. Morean as Chairman of the Board immediately following Mr. Morean's departure from the Board.
On October 16, 2012, the Board appointed Mark T. Mondello, currently the Company's Chief Operating Officer, to succeed Mr. Main as Chief Executive Officer, effective March 1, 2013. Mr. Mondello's appointment to the position of Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Main's resignation from the positions of President and Chief Executive Officer will be effective March 1, 2013.
Following March 1, 2013, Mr. Main will remain a Board member and, subject to the above-described election and appointment, Chairman of the Board.
As disclosed in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 27, 2011, Mr. Mondello (age 48) was promoted to Chief Operating Officer in November 2002. Mr. Mondello joined the Company in 1992 as a manufacturing supervisor and was promoted to Project Manager in 1993. Mr. Mondello was named Vice President, Business Development in 1997 and served as Senior Vice President, Business Development from January 1999 through November 2002. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Mondello served as project manager on commercial and defense-related aerospace programs for Moog, Inc. He holds a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of South Florida.
 
On October 18, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the director succession and issued another press release announcing the executive succession. A copy of the director succession press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the executive succession press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information furnished herewith pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involving risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, factors that we may not have currently identified or quantified and other risks, relevant factors and uncertainties identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2011, subsequent Reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and our other securities filings. Jabil disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
St. Petersburg, FL  October 18, 2012Global electronics manufacturing services provider Jabil Circuit, Inc. (NYSE: JBL) today announced that its Chairman of the Board, William D. Morean, will not stand for re-election to the Board at the company's annual meeting of shareholders in January 2013. The Board also announced that it anticipates that current President & Chief Executive Officer Timothy L. Main will be appointed Chairman immediately following Morean's departure. Main will remain President & CEO until March 2013 as part of a planned and orderly executive succession.
In addition, the Jabil Board announced that Chief Operating Officer Mark T. Mondello was nominated to stand for election to join the Jabil Board of Directors in January 2013 and will succeed Main as CEO in March 2013.
"On behalf of the Jabil Board, our employees and our shareholders, we thank Bill for his leadership, passion and dedication to Jabil over the past 35 years. We are proud of our progress and our accomplishments, including the fact that since going public in 1993, Jabil is just one of five Fortune 500 companies to post a compounded annual growth rate in revenue and earnings above 25 percent," said Thomas A. Sansone, who served as Jabil's President from 1988 to 1999, and has since served as Vice Chairman of Jabil's Board of Directors.
William E. Morean and James Golden founded the electronics assembly repair business in 1966 in Detroit, Michigan, combining their first names to create the name Jabil. Bill took over the company in 1978. At that time the company had less than $700,000 in annual revenues, no automated equipment and little capital to invest. In 1979 Bill won an award of business with AC-Delco and bet the company on the success of the program. Bill recruited Tom Sansone to join the company in 1983. The two teamed to create a unique culture of empowerment and accountability that is still a vital part of the company's culture today. In the process, they laid the foundation for the company's long-term success.
Today, Jabil is the third largest EMS provider with over $17 billion in revenue and more than 140,000 employees worldwide. Sixty global operations from the Americas, Asia & Europe, design, build and ship approximately $60 million per day of products such as single-use devices for the healthcare industry, wind-turbine engines for the energy market, innovative materials technologies for mobility products and computing products. "Building this business and watching it grow and prosper over the years has truly been an inspirational experience that I will always cherish. And, this Jabil management team has made it easy to have success," said Morean. He continued, "I'm sure my Dad would be
amazed to see the cultural values of accountability and empowerment intact in the global powerhouse that Jabil has become."
"Bill's vision of enabling employees to proactively help our customers design, build and take their products to market quickly and affordably remains firmly embedded in the Jabil culture. One of the great privileges of my life was to take over this leadership role from Bill. I was provided a unique platform from which to lead," current Chief Executive Officer & President Timothy Main said.
"We have maintained an amazing culture, which was initially authored by our current Chairman Bill Morean and Vice Chairman Tom Sansone. Jabil's culture is truly a differentiator and a catalyst to our success," added incoming CEO Mark Mondello.
About Jabil
Jabil is an electronic product solutions company providing comprehensive electronics design, manufacturing and aftermarket product management services to global electronics and technology companies. Offering complete product supply chain management from facilities in 29 countries, Jabil provides comprehensive, individualized-focused solutions to customers in a broad range of industries. Jabil common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol, "JBL". Further information is available on Jabil's website: jabil.com.
Investor & Media Contact:
Beth Walters
Senior Vice President, Communications and Investor Relations
Jabil Circuit, Inc.
(727) 803-3349
beth_walters@jabil.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including those regarding our expected executive succession, Timothy L. Main's expected appointed as Chairman of the Board, our achievement of greater success in the future, our growth under Mark T. Mondello's leadership, and our continuing to be a world leading global services partner. These statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involving risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: changes in our strategy; fluctuations in our stock's market price; fluctuations in operating results and generation of cash flow; unexpected, adverse seasonal impacts on demand; changes in macroeconomic conditions, both in the U.S. and internationally; our financial performance during and after the current economic conditions; our ability to maintain and improve costs, quality and delivery for our customers; risks and costs inherent in litigation; whether our realignment of our capacity will adversely affect our cost structure, ability to service customers and labor relations; our ability to take advantage of perceived benefits of offering customers vertically integrated services; changes in technology; competition; anticipated growth for us and our industry that may not occur; managing rapid growth; managing rapid declines in customer demand and other related customer challenges that may occur; our ability to successfully consummate acquisitions and divestitures; managing the integration of businesses we acquire; risks associated with international sales and operations; retaining key personnel; our dependence on a limited number of customers; business and competitive factors generally affecting the electronic manufacturing services industry, our customers and our business; other factors that we may not have currently identified or quantified; and other risks, relevant factors and uncertainties identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2011, subsequent Reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and our other securities filings. Jabil disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The Jabil (NYSE: JBL) Board of Directors has appointed Mark T. Mondello Chief Executive Officer of the company, effective March 1, 2013. Mondello was also nominated to stand for election to the board of directors at the company's annual meting of shareholders in January 2013. Mondello, currently the company's Chief Operating Officer, will succeed Timothy L. Main, Jabil's current President and CEO. Main will remain President & CEO until March 2013 as part of a planned and orderly executive succession. The Board anticipates Main will be appointed Chairman of the Board at the company's annual meeting of shareholders in January 2013.
St. Petersburg, FL October 18, 2012
"The opportunity to lead Jabil for the past 12 years as CEO has been a privilege and an honor," Main said. "I believe the company is in a strong position and it is the right time for an orderly and progressive leadership transition. I believe that Mark is a proven leader with the vision, energy and drive to lead Jabil to even greater success. I have absolute confidence in his ability to lead this company forward," Main added.
"With Tim at the helm, Jabil transformed its strategic direction by focusing on market diversification and making thoughtful business decisions based on clear understanding of the industry," said William D. Morean. "In his 20 years at Jabil Mark has distinguished himself as a leader who embodies the results-oriented Jabil culture. The Board and I are truly looking forward to this next phase of Jabil's growth under Mark's leadership."
"We expect to continue to be a world leading global services partner by offering differentiated capabilities and cost-effective services," said incoming CEO Mark Mondello. "I am humbled to assume this role with the responsibility to carry the Jabil torch forward and appreciate the confidence of Bill, Tim and the entire Board."
"I am committed to leading a great team focused on our customers, shareholders, employees and suppliers," Mondello continued. "Our team is excited about the many opportunities that are ahead of us."
About Jabil
Jabil is an electronic product solutions company providing comprehensive electronics design, manufacturing and aftermarket product management services to global electronics and technology companies. Offering complete product supply chain management from facilities in 29 countries, Jabil provides comprehensive, individualized-focused solutions to customers in a broad range of industries. Jabil common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol, "JBL". Further information is available on Jabil's website: jabil.com.
Mark T. Mondello
Mark Mondello joined Jabil in 1992 as a manufacturing supervisor. He was promoted to Project Manager in 1993, named Vice President, Business Development in 1997 and Senior Vice President, Business Development in 1999. Mondello was promoted to Chief Operating Officer in 2002, overseeing global operations, business development, new product development, supply chain and information technology. Prior to Jabil, Mondello was a commercial and defense-related aerospace project manager for Moog, Inc. A native of Chicago, Mark holds a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from the University of South Florida.
Mark is long-time member of the Board of Trustees of All Children's Hospital in St. Petersburg and both he and his wife, Keli are passionate about community service and actively give their time in support of various philanthropic efforts. Mark's middle child, who is nearly 18, has special needs. "She has taught me a tremendous amount about life and facing challenges head on without complaint," Mondello says.
Investor & Media Contact:
Beth Walters
Senior Vice President, Communications and Investor Relations
Jabil Circuit, Inc.
(727) 803-3349
beth_walters@jabil.com


