FILE:JBL/JBL-8K-20120619161935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On June 19, 2012, Jabil Circuit, Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the third fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information furnished herewith pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
. Jabil Circuit, Inc. (NYSE: JBL), today reported preliminary, unaudited third quarter net revenue of $4.3 billion for fiscal year 2012. "We are pleased to post core EBITDA margins of 6.5 percent in the quarter, our highest level since 2005. Core operating margins also expanded to 4.5 percent," said Timothy L. Main, President and CEO of Jabil. "This is particularly gratifying during a period of more subdued revenue growth for the company overall."
St. Petersburg, FL  June 19, 2012
Revenue from Diversified Manufacturing Services increased to $1.9 billion, a 22 percent year over year increase, and accounted for 44 percent of total revenue in the third fiscal quarter of 2012.
Jabil's High Velocity business represented 25 percent of total revenue and its Enterprise & Infrastructure business accounted for 31 percent of the quarter's revenue.
(Definitions used: "GAAP" means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Jabil defines core operating income as GAAP operating income before amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and impairment charges, goodwill impairment charges, certain distressed customer charges, settlement of receivables and related charges and loss on disposal of subsidiaries. Jabil calculates core operating margin as core operating income divided by net revenue. Jabil defines its core EBITDA margin as core operating income before depreciation expense divided by net revenue. Jabil defines core earnings as GAAP net income before amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and impairment charges, goodwill impairment charges, certain distressed customer charges, settlement of receivables and related charges, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges. Jabil defines core earnings per share as core earnings divided by the weighted average number of outstanding shares determined under GAAP. Jabil calculates core return on invested capital by annualizing its after-tax core operating income for its most recently-ended quarter and dividing that by a two quarter average net invested capital base. Jabil reports core operating income, core operating margin, core EBITDA margin, core earnings, core earnings per share and core return on invested capital to provide investors an additional method for assessing operating income, earnings, earnings per share and return on invested capital from what it believes are its core manufacturing operations. See the accompanying reconciliation of Jabil's core operating income to its GAAP operating income, its calculation of core operating margin, Jabil's core earnings and core earnings per share to its GAAP net income and GAAP earnings per share, its calculation of core return on invested capital, its calculation of core EBITDA margin and additional information in the supplemental information.)
Operational Highlights Fiscal Q3 2012 versus Fiscal Q3 2011
 
Business Update
"We are delighted with the outstanding performance of our Diversified Manufacturing Services sector overall and we are actively expanding our capacity in order to meet the growing demands of numerous customers and products," said Jabil CEO Timothy Main. "The ramp-up of new products, combined with specific customer challenges and muted end-markets give us plenty to focus on in the fourth fiscal quarter," said Jabil CEO Timothy Main. "We believe success in the fourth quarter will set the stage for a brisk fiscal 2013 and a continuation of record setting years."
 
 
(GAAP earnings per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 are currently estimated to include $0.02 per share for amortization of intangibles and $0.09 per share for stock-based compensation).
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT:
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including those regarding our anticipated financial results for our third quarter of fiscal year 2012; the ramping of new products; specific customer challenges; muted end-markets; our focus in the fourth fiscal quarter; our fiscal 2013 performance and our currently expected fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 net revenue, core operating income, core and GAAP earnings per share results and the components thereof. The statements in this news release are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involving risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: our determination as we finalize our financial results for our third fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2012 that our financial results and conditions differ from our current preliminary unaudited numbers set forth herein; our inability to ramp the new products in our Materials Technology Group, an unexpected difference in our focus in the fourth fiscal quarter; unexpected, adverse seasonal impacts on demand; changes in macroeconomic conditions, both in the U.S. and internationally; our financial performance during and after the current economic conditions; our ability to maintain and improve costs, quality and delivery for our customers; risks and costs inherent in litigation; whether our realignment of our capacity will adversely affect our cost structure, ability to service customers and labor relations; our ability to take advantage of perceived benefits of offering customers vertically integrated services; changes in technology; competition; anticipated growth for us and our industry that may not occur; managing rapid growth; managing rapid declines in customer demand and other related customer challenges that may occur; our ability to successfully consummate acquisitions and divestitures; managing the integration of businesses we acquire (including, with respect to the acquisition of the Italian and French sites, potential unknown liabilities and the costs associated with addressing potential reduced business activity at these sites); risks associated with international sales and operations; retaining key personnel; our dependence on a limited number of large customers; business and competitive factors generally affecting the electronic manufacturing services industry, our customers and our business; other factors that we may not have currently identified or quantified; and other risks, relevant factors and uncertainties identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2011, subsequent Reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and our other securities filings. Jabil disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The financial results disclosed in this release include certain measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition to the GAAP financial measures, Jabil provides supplemental, non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate evaluation of Jabil's core operating performance. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release exclude certain amounts that are included in the most directly comparable GAAP measures. The non-GAAP or core financial measures disclosed in this release do not have standard meanings and may vary from the non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Management believes core financial measures (which exclude the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and impairment charges, goodwill impairment charges, certain distressed customer charges, settlement of receivables and related charges, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges) are a useful measure that facilitates evaluating the past and future performance of Jabil's ongoing operations on a comparable basis. Jabil reports core operating income, core operating margin, core EBITDA margin, core return on invested capital, core earnings and core earnings per share to provide investors an additional method for assessing operating income, earnings and earnings per share from what it believes are its core manufacturing operations. Included in this release are Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as well as a reconciliation of the disclosed core financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. 
Supplemental Information:
Jabil will hold a conference call to discuss the third fiscal quarter 2012 earnings today at 4:30 p.m. ET live on the Internet at . The call will be recorded and archived on the web at . A taped replay of the conference call will also be available June 19, 2012 at approximately 7:30 p.m. ET through midnight on June 26, 2012. To access the replay, call (855) 859-2056 from within the United States, or (404) 537-3406 outside the United States. The pass code is: 88463058. An archived webcast of the conference call will be available at .
Company Conference Call Information:
http://www.jabil.com
http://www.jabil.com
http://www.jabil.com/investors/
About Jabil
Jabil is an electronic product solutions company providing comprehensive electronics design, manufacturing and aftermarket product management services to global electronics and technology companies. Offering complete product supply chain management from facilities in 29 countries, Jabil provides comprehensive, individualized-focused solutions to customers in a broad range of industries. Jabil common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol, "JBL". Further information is available on Jabil's website: jabil.com.
Investor & Media Contact:
Beth Walters
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations & Communications
Jabil Circuit, Inc.
(727) 803-3511
beth_walters@jabil.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company calculates (1) "Return on Invested Capital" by annualizing its "after-tax GAAP operating income" for its most recently-ended quarter and dividing that by a two quarter average of its "net invested capital asset base" and (2) "Core Return on Invested Capital" by annualizing its "after-tax non-GAAP core operating income" for its most recently-ended quarter and dividing that by a two quarter average of its "net invested capital asset base."
The Company calculates: (1) its "after-tax GAAP operating income" by subtracting a certain tax effect (the calculation of which is explained below) from its GAAP operating income and (2) its "after-tax non-GAAP core operating income" by subtracting a certain tax effect (the calculation of which is explained below) from its non-GAAP core operating income. See elsewhere in this earnings release for a reconciliation of the Company's non-GAAP core operating income to its GAAP operating income.
The Company calculates "net invested capital asset base" as the sum of the averages (the calculation of which are explained below) of (1) its stockholders' equity, (2) the non-current portion of its notes payable and long term debt and (3) the current portion of its notes payable and long term debt, less the average (the calculation of which is explained below) of its cash and cash equivalents.
The following table reconciles (1) "Return on Invested Capital," as calculated using "after-tax GAAP operating income" to (2) "Core Return on Invested Capital," as calculated using "after-tax non-GAAP core operating income":
 
 
 
 
 
The Company calculates core EBITDA margin as operating income (calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP) before amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and impairment charges, goodwill impairment charges, certain distressed customer charges, settlement of receivables and related charges, loss on the disposal of subsidiaries and depreciation expense divided by net revenue.
The following table reconciles core EBITDA to net income and operating income in accordance with US GAAP:
 


