FILE:AMP/AMP-8K-20051003185904.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
              
 
Effective as of the close of business on September 30, 2005, the separation of the business of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the "Company") from American Express Company ("AXP") and the distribution of the common stock of the Company to the stockholders of AXP was completed in a tax free spin-off (the "Distribution").  In connection with the Distribution, the Company entered into certain agreements with AXP to effect the separation of its business and to define responsibility for obligations arising before and after the date of the Distribution, including, among others, obligations relating to transition services, taxes, and employees. Additional information relating to the Distribution is set forth in the Company's registration statement on Form 10 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 19, 2005.
 
Transition Services Agreement
 
On September 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Transition Services Agreement (the "Transition Services Agreement") with AXP under which the Company and AXP will provide certain specified services to each other on an interim basis.  Among the principal services to be provided are: finance and financial operations services, human resources services, information technology services, and service delivery network services, including call center services.  The services will generally be provided for a term beginning on the distribution date and expiring on the earlier to occur of the second anniversary of the distribution date and the date of termination of a particular service pursuant to the agreement.  The party receiving a service can generally terminate provision of that service upon 60 days advance notice to the party providing the service.  AXP and the Company will pay an arm's length fee to the other party for the services provided, which fee is generally intended to allow the party providing the service to recover all of its direct and indirect costs.  Generally, neither the Company nor AXP will be liable to the other for any failure to provide the services under the transition services agreement, except in the case of intentional breach, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct.
 
Tax Allocation Agreement
 
On September 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Tax Allocation Agreement (the "Tax Allocation Agreement") with AXP.  The Tax Allocation Agreement governs the allocation
of consolidated U.S. federal and applicable combined or unitary state and local income tax liability as between AXP and the Company, and in addition provides for certain restrictions and indemnities in connection with the tax treatment of the Distribution and addresses other tax-related matters.
 
Employee Benefits Agreement
 
On September 30, 2005, the Company entered into an Employee Benefits Agreement (the "Employee Benefits Agreement") with AXP that allocates liabilities and responsibilities relating to employee compensation and benefits plans and programs and other related matters in connection with the Distribution including the treatment of outstanding AXP equity awards, certain outstanding annual and long-term incentive awards, existing deferred compensation obligations, and certain retirement and welfare benefit obligations.  The Employee Benefits Agreement provides that as of the date of the Distribution the Company generally will assume, retain and be liable for all wages, salaries, welfare, incentive compensation, and employee-related obligations and liabilities for all of its current and former employees.  The Employee Benefits Agreement also provides for the transfer of assets and liabilities relating to the pre-distribution participation of the Company's employees in various AXP retirement, welfare, incentive compensation, and employee benefit plans from such plans to the applicable plans the Company has adopted for the benefit of its employees.
 
Forms of Equity Award Certificates and LTIA Guide
 
On September 30, 2005, the Company adopted the Ameriprise Financial Long-Term Incentive Award Program Guide (the "LTIA Guide"), which, in conjunction with the Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Ameriprise ICP"), sets forth certain terms and conditions of the long-term incentive awards ("LTIAs") granted by the Company under the Ameriprise ICP.  The LTIA Guide contains, among other things, provisions and information regarding the vesting of LTIAs, the treatment of LTIAs upon a termination of employment, and the treatment of LTIAs upon the occurrence of a change of control of the Company and on certain other events.  In addition, the LTIA Guide contains non-competition and non-solicitation provisions.
 
On September 30, 2005, the Company also adopted the Ameriprise Financial Form of Award Certificate  Non-Qualified Stock Option Award (the "Option Certificate"), pursuant to which options to purchase the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 ("Common Stock") will be granted to the Company's key employees, including the Company's named executive officers.  In addition to setting forth the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the option, as well as the award date, vesting schedule, and exercise price of such option, each individual Option Certificate will also incorporate by reference the terms and conditions set forth in the Ameriprise ICP and the LTIA Guide.
 
In addition, on September 30, 2005, the Company adopted (i) the Ameriprise Financial Form of Award Certificate  Restricted Stock Award (the "RSA Certificate") and (ii) the Ameriprise Financial Form of Award Certificate  Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "RSU Certificate"), pursuant to which awards of restricted shares of Common Stock or restricted stock
units, respectively, will be granted to the Company's key employees, including the Company's named executive officers.  In addition to setting forth the number of restricted shares of Common Stock or restricted stock units awarded, as well as the award date and vesting schedule of each such award, each individual RSA Certificate and RSU Certificate will also incorporate by reference the terms and conditions set forth in the Ameriprise ICP and the LTIA Guide.
 
Form of Cash Incentive Award Agreements
 
On September 30, 2005, the Company adopted the Ameriprise Financial Form of Agreement  Cash Incentive Award, which provides for the grant of performance-based cash incentive awards ("Cash Incentive Awards"), pursuant to the Ameriprise ICP and the LTIA Guide.  For three of the Company's named executive officers, the Compensation and Benefits Committee (the "CBC") of the Company's Board of Directors has approved the adoption of certain performance goals for the payment of Cash Incentive Awards with respect to the fourth quarter of 2005.  These Cash Incentive Awards will be paid from a pool, created under the Ameriprise ICP, which will be equal to 3 percent of the Company's Operating Net Income for the fourth quarter of 2005.  "Operating Net Income" is the Company's reported net income, before the costs associated with the Distribution, accounting changes and discontinued operations are taken into account.  Subject to the terms and conditions described below, if the performance objectives are attained, as determined and certified by the CBC, each of the three named executive officers will be entitled to a Cash Incentive Award which in the case of each such officer will be no greater than a pre-established maximum percentage of the pool.
 
For the Company's two remaining named executive officers, the CBC has approved the assumption, under the Ameriprise ICP, of certain cash incentive awards for 2005 that were originally granted by AXP (the "Assumed Cash Incentive Awards").  The performance goals with respect to such Assumed Cash Incentive Awards are based on AXP's diluted earnings per share ("AXP EPS") and return on equity ("AXP ROE") for 2005, with the award being determined by reference to a matrix of possible performance levels.  In determining diluted AXP EPS and AXP ROE, AXP's reported net income will be adjusted to exclude the cumulative effect of accounting changes, income, and losses from discontinued operations and extraordinary gains and losses as determined under generally accepted accounting principles.
 
In determining the payout to be made to a named executive officer pursuant to a Cash Incentive Award or an Assumed Cash Incentive Award, the terms and conditions of each such award preclude the CBC from paying each such officer an amount exceeding the maximum payout that is called for by reference to the particular performance level achieved by the Company.  However, the CBC may determine in its sole discretion to pay less than the maximum payout based on the Company's and/or the executive officer's performance during 2005.
 
At present, it is expected that the payments of Cash Incentive Awards or Assumed Cash Incentive Awards to each of the Company's named executive officers will be made in February 2006, subject to continuous employment of each such named executive officer through the date of payment.
Deferred Share Plan for Outside Directors
 
On September 30, 2005, the Company adopted the Ameriprise Financial Deferred Share Plan for Outside Directors (the "Director Deferral Plan"), which is designed to provide a means for the deferral by non-employee directors of director fees and to promote a greater alignment of interests between eligible directors and the Company's shareholders.  Under the Director Deferral Plan, eligible directors will have credited to a stock account, on an annual basis and at the commencement of each service period, a number of deferred share units ("DSUs") equal to such director's annual fee divided by the market value of a share of Common Stock on a specified date.  In addition, in respect of each plan year (commencing with the 2006 plan year) and subject to the timely completion of all requirements imposed by the CBC, each eligible non-employee director may elect to make an annual elective deferral of eligible compensation (as determined by the CBC) in accordance with, and subject to the procedures set forth in, the Director Deferral Plan.
 
Annual elective deferrals will be credited in equal installments on a quarterly basis to an eligible director's stock account (which shall be denominated in DSUs) and/or a cash account (which shall earn interest based on Moody's Composite Yield on Seasoned Aaa Corporate Bonds), as elected by such eligible director.  The number of DSUs that will be credited to an eligible director's stock account with respect to an annual elective deferral shall be the amount elected to be deferred by the participant with respect to such quarter divided by the market value of a share of Common Stock on a specified date.  Eligible directors may elect to make annual elective deferrals of up to 100% of eligible compensation, in 25% increments.  An eligible director's stock account will also be credited on each dividend payment date with a number of DSUs equal to the number of shares of Common Stock that would have been issued if the DSUs were shares of Common Stock.
 
An eligible director may elect to have elective deferrals distributed (i) in a lump sum at the end of the quarter immediately following the quarter in which such director's service on the Company's Board of Directors terminates (the "Distribution Quarter") or on March 31 of a specified year or (ii) in up to 5 annual installments of incrementally increasing ratios (e.g., 1/5, 1/4, 1/3, 1/2, 1), commencing at the end of the Distribution Quarter (with subsequent installments to be paid on March 31).  Annual DSU grants will be distributed in a lump sum at the end of the Distribution Quarter.  Except as otherwise determined by the CBC, all stock account distributions will be in shares of Common Stock and all cash account distributions will be paid in cash.
 
Upon the occurrence of a change in control, the Company will distribute all previously undistributed amounts under the Director Deferral Plan to participants.
General
 
Copies of the Transition Services Agreement, the Tax Allocation Agreement, the Employee Benefits Agreement and the related employee benefit plan documents described above are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5, 10.6, 10.7, 10.8 and 10.9 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 3.03
              
Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders
 
In connection with the Distribution, effective as of the close of business on September 30, 2005, the Company effectuated a one for 2,461,690.72 stock split of the Company's issued and outstanding common stock, reclassifying each share of common stock held by AXP (the holder of 100% of the Company's issued and outstanding common stock prior to the Distribution) into such number of shares of common stock so that AXP had one share of common stock for every five shares of AXP common stock issued and outstanding on the record date for the Distribution.  Prior to the Distribution, the Company's total issued and outstanding shares of common stock was 100.  The Company's common stock continues to be $0.01 par value.
 
Item 5.02
              
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
Prior to and in connection with the Distribution, AXP, as sole stockholder of the Company, on September 30, 2005, elected the following persons to the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") for a term expiring at the annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company in the year set forth beside each such person's name:
 
James M. Cracchiolo  2007
Ira D. Hall  2006
W. Walker Lewis  2008
Siri S. Marshall  2008
Jeff Noddle  2006
Richard F. Powers III  2006
H. Jay Sarles  2007
Robert F. Sharpe, Jr.  2007
William H. Turner  2008
 
On September 30, 2005, the Board appointed the following named persons to the offices of the Company set forth beside each person's name:
 
James M. Cracchiolo  Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
Brian M. Heath  President  U.S. Advisor Group
Mark Schwarzmann  President  Insurance, Annuities and Product Distribution
Joseph E. Sweeney  President  Financial Planning, Products and Services
William F. Truscott  President  U.S. Asset Management and Chief Investment Officer
Walter S. Berman - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Kelli A. Hunter - Executive Vice President  Human Resources
John Junek - Executive Vice President and General Counsel
Glen Salow - Executive Vice President  Technology and Operations
Kim M. Sharan - Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer
John R. Woerner - Senior Vice President  Strategic Planning and Business Development
David K. Stewart - Senior Vice President and Controller
 
The Board also appointed Mssrs. Noddle, Powers, Sarles, Sharpe and Turner as members of the Audit Committee, Mssrs. Hall, Lewis, Noddle and Sarles and Ms. Marshall as members of the Nominating and Governance Committee, and Mssrs. Hall, Lewis, Powers and Sharpe and Ms. Marshall as members of the Compensation Committee.
 
Information regarding the directors and officers listed above is contained in Exhibit 99.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on September 16, 2005, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Harlan J. Noddle, the brother of director Jeff Noddle, holds controlling interests in three special-purpose real estate development limited partnerships that have limited-recourse mortgage loans from our subsidiary IDS Life Insurance Company ("IDS Life") with a current aggregate outstanding balance of $6.5 million.  The loans were made on arm's length terms in the ordinary course of business by IDS Life in 1997 (one loan) and 2001 (two loans).
 
Item 5.03
              
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
In connection with the Distribution, on September 30, 2005, the Company filed an Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.  The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly approved and adopted by the Board on September 30, 2005.  Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company also were approved and adopted by the Board on September 30, 2005.
 
Copies of the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws are filed hereto as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5. 05
             
Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
 
In connection with the Distribution, on September 30, 2005, the Company adopted a new Employee Code of Conduct, which contains the Company's code of ethics as defined in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K.
 
A copy of the Employee Code of Conduct is available on the Company's Website at www.ameriprise.com.
.
Item 7.01
              
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the Distribution is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01
              
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 3.1
        Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the "Corporation"), a corporation organized and existing under, and by virtue of, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL"), does hereby certify as follows:
        1.     The Corporation was originally formed by the filing of a certificate of incorporation under the name "Amex Acquisition Corporation" with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "Secretary of State") on September 29, 1983. The name of the Corporation was changed to "IDS/American Express Inc." pursuant to a merger effective upon the filing of a certificate of merger with the Secretary of State on January 12, 1984. The name of the Corporation was further changed to "IDS Financial Services Inc." pursuant to an amendment to the certificate of incorporation effective upon the filing of a certificate of amendment with the Secretary of State on January 30, 1985. The name of the Corporation was further changed to "IDS Financial Corporation" pursuant to an amendment to the certificate of incorporation effective upon the filing of a certificate of amendment with the Secretary of State on December 15, 1986. The name of the Corporation was further changed to "American Express Financial Corporation" pursuant to a filing of a certificate of amendment with the Secretary of State on December 5, 1994. The present name of the Corporation is "Ameriprise Financial, Inc.", as changed pursuant to a filing of a certificate of amendment with the Secretary of State on August 1, 2005.
        2.     This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation was, in accordance with Sections 242 and 245 of the DGCL, (a) duly proposed by resolutions adopted and declared advisable by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors") acting by written consent pursuant to Section 141(f) of the DGCL, (b) approved by written consent of the holder of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation pursuant to Section 228 of the DGCL and (c) duly executed by an authorized officer of the Corporation pursuant to Section 103 of the DGCL.
        3.     This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation restates, integrates and further amends the provisions of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended, corrected or supplemented, and, upon filing with the Secretary of State in accordance with Section 103, shall supersede the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as heretofore amended and restated, corrected or supplemented, and shall, as it may thereafter be amended in accordance with its terms and applicable law, be the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation.
        4.     Pursuant to Section 103(d) of the DGCL, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. (New York time) on September 30, 2005.
        5.     The text of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
        The name of the Corporation is Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
        The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the Corporation's registered agent is The Corporation Trust Company.
        The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the DGCL.
        Section 1.
    
    The aggregate number of shares of stock that the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 1,250,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), and 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"). The number of authorized shares of the Common Stock and the Preferred Stock or any other class of stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon, and, irrespective of Section 242(b)(2) of the DGCL, no vote of the holders of any of the Common Stock, the Preferred Stock or any other class of stock, voting separately as a class, shall be required therefor.
Authorized Stock.
        Section 2.
    
    
Preferred Stock.
        (a)   The Preferred Stock may be issued at any time and from time to time in one or more series. The Board of Directors is hereby authorized to provide for the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock in series and, by filing a certificate of designation pursuant to the applicable provisions of the DGCL (hereinafter referred to as a "Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation"), to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof.
        (b)   The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series of Preferred Stock shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:
(i)
the designation of the series, which may be by distinguishing number, letter or title;
(ii)
the number of shares of the series, which number the Board of Directors may thereafter (except where otherwise provided in the applicable Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation) increase or decrease (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding);
(iii)
whether dividends, if any, shall be cumulative or noncumulative and the dividend rate of the series;
(iv)
whether dividends, if any, shall be payable in cash, in kind or otherwise;
(v)
the dates on which dividends, if any, shall be payable;
(vi)
the redemption rights and price or prices, if any, for shares of the series;
(vii)
the terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or redemption of shares of the series;
(viii)
the amounts payable on shares of the series in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation;
(ix)
whether the shares of the series shall be convertible or exchangeable into shares of any other class or series, or any other security, of the Corporation or any other corporation, and, if so, the specification of such other class or series or such other security, the conversion or exchange price or prices or rate or rates, any adjustments thereof, the date or dates as of which such shares shall be convertible or exchangeable and all other terms and conditions upon which such conversion or exchange may be made;
(x)
restrictions on the issuance of shares of the same series or of any other class or series; and
(xi)
whether or not the holders of the shares of such series shall have voting rights, in addition to the voting rights provided by law, and if so, the terms of such voting rights, which may provide, among other things and subject to the other provisions of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, that each share of such series shall carry one vote or more or less than one vote per share, that the holders of such series shall be entitled to vote on certain matters as a separate class (which for such purpose may be comprised solely of such series or of such series and one or more other series or classes of stock of the Corporation) and that all the shares of such series entitled to vote on a particular matter shall be deemed to be voted on such matter in the manner that a specified portion of the voting power of the shares of such series or separate class are voted on such matter.
        (c)   The Common Stock shall be subject to the express terms of the Preferred Stock and any series thereof.
        (d)   Except as otherwise required by law, holders of Common Stock, as such, shall not be entitled to vote on any amendment to this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or to a Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation that alters or changes the powers, preferences, rights or other terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of one or more other series of Preferred Stock, to vote thereon as a separate class pursuant to this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or a Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation or pursuant to the DGCL as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended.
        Section 3.
    
    Except as may be required by law or as provided in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or in a Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation, holders of Common Stock shall have the exclusive right to vote for the election of Directors and for all other purposes, and holders of Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter or receive notice of any meeting of stockholders.
Voting in Election of Directors.
        Section 4.
    
    The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the person in whose name any share of its stock is registered as the owner thereof for all purposes and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such share on the part of any other person, whether or not the Corporation shall have notice thereof, except as expressly provided by applicable law.
Owner.
        Section 1.
    
    The Directors of the Corporation, subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any class or series of Preferred Stock, shall be classified with respect to the time for which they severally hold office, into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, as shall be provided in the By-laws of the Corporation, one class ("Class I") whose initial term expires at the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders, another class ("Class II") whose initial term expires at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, and another class ("Class III") whose initial term expires at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, with each class to hold office until its successors are elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the date of which will be fixed pursuant to the By-Laws of the Corporation, and subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any class or series of Preferred Stock, the successors of the class of Directors whose term expires at that meeting shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following the year of their election.
Classified Board.
        Section 2.
    
    The following provisions are inserted for the management of the business and for the conduct of the affairs of the Corporation and for the purpose of creating, defining, limiting and regulating the powers of the Corporation and its Directors and stockholders:
Management of Business.
        (a)   Subject to the rights of any holders of any series of Preferred Stock, if any, to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors may remove any Director or the entire Board of Directors, but only for cause.
        (b)   Vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause and newly created Directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of Directors shall be filled in the manner provided in the By-Laws of the Corporation.
        (c)   Advance notice of nominations for the election of Directors shall be given in the manner and to the extent provided in the By-Laws of the Corporation.
        (d)   The election of Directors may be conducted in any manner approved by the Board of Directors at the time when the election is held and need not be by written ballot.
        (e)   All corporate powers and authority of the Corporation (except as at the time otherwise provided by law, by this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or by the By-Laws) shall be vested in and exercised by the Board of Directors.
        (f)    The Board of Directors shall have the power without the assent or vote of the stockholders to adopt, amend, alter or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation, except to the extent that the By-Laws or this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provide. In addition to any requirements of law and any other provision of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the stockholders of the Corporation may adopt, amend, alter or repeal any provision of the By-Laws upon the affirmative vote of the holders of three-fourths (/) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors.
3
4
        Section 1.
    
    No Director of the Corporation shall be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of his or her fiduciary duty as a Director, except to the extent that such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the DGCL as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended.
General.
        Section 2.
    
    Any repeal or modification of this Article VI by the stockholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a Director, officer or the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification. If the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware is amended after the filing of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of Directors, then the liability of a Director of the Corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL, as so amended.
Repeal or Modification.
        Effective as of the time the American Express Company, a New York corporation ("American Express"), distributes the Common Stock of the Corporation to American Express stockholders, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, and the ability of the stockholders to consent in writing to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
        The Corporation reserves the right to amend or repeal any provision contained in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by the laws of the State of Delaware, and all rights herein conferred upon stockholders or Directors (in the present form of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or as hereinafter amended) are granted subject to this reservation; provided, however, that any amendment or repeal of Article VI of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing hereunder immediately prior to such amendment or repeal; and, provided, further, that Articles V, VI, VII or VIII of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall not be amended, altered or repealed without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least three-fourths (/) of the combined voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors.
3
4
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Ameriprise Financial, Inc. has caused this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be duly executed by an authorized officer of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. as of this 29th day of September, 2005.
QuickLinks
AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION OF AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL, INC.
ARTICLE I NAME OF CORPORATION
ARTICLE II REGISTERED OFFICE
ARTICLE III PURPOSE
ARTICLE IV STOCK
ARTICLE V BOARD OF DIRECTORS; MANAGEMENT OF THE CORPORATION

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 3.2
        Section 1.01.
    
    The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation for the election of Directors and for the transaction of such other business as properly may come before such meeting shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, or, within the sole discretion of the Board of Directors, by remote electronic communication technologies and at such date and at such time, as may be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors and set forth in the notice or waiver of notice of the meeting.
Annual Meetings.
        Section 1.02.
    
    Special meetings of the stockholders may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer (or, in the event of his or her absence or disability, by the President or any Executive Vice President), or by the Board of Directors. A special meeting shall be called by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer (or, in the event of his or her absence or disability, by the President or any Executive Vice President), or by the Secretary of the Corporation pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. Such special meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such places, within or without the State of Delaware, or, within the sole discretion of the Board of Directors, by remote electronic communication technologies, as shall be specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof. Any power of the stockholders of the Corporation to call a special meeting is specifically denied.
Special Meetings.
        Section 1.03.
    
    
Notice Of Meetings; Waiver.
        (a)   The Secretary of the Corporation or any Assistant Secretary shall cause written notice of the place, if any, date and hour of each meeting of the stockholders, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which such meeting is called, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, to be given personally by mail or by electronic transmission, or as otherwise provided in these By-Laws, not fewer than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the meeting, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If such notice is mailed, it shall be deemed to have been given personally to a stockholder when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the record of stockholders of the Corporation, or, if a stockholder shall have filed with the Secretary of the Corporation a written request that notices to such stockholder be mailed to some other address, then directed to such stockholder at such other address. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law.
        (b)   A written waiver of any notice of any annual or special meeting signed by the person entitled thereto, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders need be specified in a written waiver of notice. Attendance of a stockholder at a meeting of stockholders shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the stockholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
        (c)   For notice given by electronic transmission to a stockholder to be effective, such stockholder must consent to the Corporation's giving notice by that particular form of electronic transmission. A stockholder may revoke consent to receive notice by electronic transmission by written notice to the Corporation. A stockholder's consent to notice by electronic transmission is automatically revoked if the Corporation is unable to deliver two consecutive electronic transmission notices and such inability
becomes known to the Secretary of the Corporation, any Assistant Secretary, the transfer agent or other person responsible for giving notice.
        (d)   Notices are deemed given (i) if by facsimile, when faxed to a number where the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (ii) if by electronic mail, when mailed electronically to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive such notice; (iii) if by posting on an electronic network (such as a website or chatroom) together with a separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later to occur of (A) such posting or (B) the giving of the separate notice of such posting; or (iv) if by any other form of electronic communication, when directed to the stockholder in the manner consented to by the stockholder.
        (e)   If a stockholder meeting is to be held via electronic communications and stockholders will take action at such meeting, the notice of such meeting must: (i) specify the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present and vote at such meeting; and (ii) provide the information required to access the stockholder list. A waiver of notice may be given by electronic transmission.
        Section 1.04.
    
    Except as otherwise required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, at each meeting of stockholders the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of record of a majority in voting power of the shares entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting. Shares of its own stock belonging to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity.
Quorum.
        Section 1.05.
    
    If, pursuant to Section 5.05 of these By-Laws, a record date has been fixed, every holder of record of shares entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one (1) vote for each share outstanding in his or her name on the books of the Corporation at the close of business on such record date. If no record date has been fixed, then every holder of record of shares entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one (1) vote for each share of stock standing in his or her name on the books of the Corporation at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of the meeting is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at a meeting and voting for nominees in the election of directors, and in all other matters, the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at a meeting and voting on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
Voting.
        Section 1.06.
    
    No vote of the stockholders on an election of Directors need be taken by written ballot or by electronic transmission unless otherwise required by law. Any vote not required to be taken by ballot or by electronic transmission may be conducted in any manner approved by the Board of Directors prior to the meeting at which such vote is taken.
Voting By Ballot.
        Section 1.07.
    
    If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders present in person or by proxy shall have the power to adjourn any such meeting from time to time until a quorum is present. Notice of any adjourned meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation need not be given if the place, if any, date and hour thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, provided, however, that if the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date for the adjourned meeting is fixed pursuant to Section 5.05 of these By-Laws, a notice of the adjourned meeting, conforming to the requirements of Section 1.03 hereof, shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. At
Adjournment.
any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted on the original date of the meeting.
        Section 1.08.
    
    Any stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders may authorize another person or persons to vote at any such meeting and express such vote on behalf of him or her by proxy. A stockholder may authorize a valid proxy by executing a written instrument signed by such stockholder, or by causing his or her signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature, or by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission to the person designated as the holder of the proxy, a proxy solicitation firm or a like authorized agent. No such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after the expiration of three (3) years from the date of such proxy, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. Every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the stockholder executing it, except in those cases where applicable law provides that a proxy shall be irrevocable. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing with the Secretary of the Corporation either an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date. Proxies by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of a writing or transmission created pursuant to this section may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
Proxies.
        Section 1.09.
    
    At every meeting of stockholders the presiding officer shall be the Chairman of the Board or, in the event of his or her absence or disability, a presiding officer chosen by the Board of Directors. The Secretary of the Corporation, or in the event of his or her absence or disability, an Assistant Secretary, if any, or if there be no Assistant Secretary, in the absence of the Secretary of the Corporation, an appointee of the presiding officer, shall act as Secretary of the meeting. The order of business and all other matters of procedure at every meeting of stockholders may be determined by such presiding officer.
Organization; Procedure.
        Section 1.10.
    
    
Notice Of Stockholder Business And Nominations.
        (a)   
Annual Meetings Of Stockholders.
(i)
Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (A) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, or (B) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in clauses (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph and who was a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.
(ii)
For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, pursuant to clause (B) of paragraph (a)(i) of this Section 1.10, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing or by electronic transmission to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not fewer than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting and in any event at least forty-five (45) days prior to the first anniversary of the date on which the registrant first mailed its proxy materials for the prior year's annual meeting of stockholders; PROVIDED, that if the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before
or more than seventy (70) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (A) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a Director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of Directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or any successor provisions, including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a Director if elected; (B) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and of any beneficial owner on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (C) as to the stockholder giving the notice and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (1) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (2) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned of record by such stockholder and beneficially by such beneficial owner.
(iii)
Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section 1.10 to the contrary, in the event that the number of Directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice under this paragraph shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
        (b)       Only such business as shall have been brought before the special meeting of the stockholders pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Section 1.03 of these By-Laws shall be conducted at such meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which Directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.10 and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. Nominations by stockholders of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at such special meeting of stockholders if the stockholder's notice as required by paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section 1.10 shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the one hundred and twentieth (120th) day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such special meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings Of Stockholders.
        (c)   
General.
(i)
Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.10 shall be eligible to serve as Directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.10. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.10 and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Section 1.10, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
(ii)
For purposes of this Section 1.10, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14, or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(iii)
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.10, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 1.10. Nothing in this Section 1.10 shall be deemed to affect any rights (A) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, or (B) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, if any, to elect Directors if so provided under any applicable Preferred Stock Certificate of Designations (as defined in the Certificate of Incorporation).
        Section 1.11.
    
    Preceding any meeting of the stockholders, the Board of Directors shall appoint one (1) or more persons to act as Inspectors of Elections, and may designate one (1) or more alternate inspectors. In the event no inspector or alternate is able to act, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one (1) or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of an inspector, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspector shall:
Inspectors Of Elections.
        (a)   ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each;
        (b)   determine the shares represented at a meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots;
        (c)   specify the information relied upon to determine the validity of electronic transmissions in accordance with Section 1.08 hereof;
        (d)   count all votes and ballots;
        (e)   determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors;
        (f)    certify his or her determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting, and his or her count of all votes and ballots;
        (g)   appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist in the performance of the duties of inspector; and
        (h)   when determining the shares represented and the validity of proxies and ballots, be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes submitted with those proxies, any information provided in accordance with Section 1.08 of these By-Laws, ballots and the regular books and records of the
Corporation. The inspector may consider other reliable information for the limited purpose of reconciling proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers or their nominees or a similar person which represent more votes than the holder of a proxy is authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder holds of record. If the inspector considers other reliable information as outlined in this section, the inspector, at the time of his or her certification pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, shall specify the precise information considered, the person or persons from whom the information was obtained, when this information was obtained, the means by which the information was obtained, and the basis for the inspector's belief that such information is accurate and reliable.
        Section 1.12.
    
    The date and time for the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter to be voted upon at a stockholder meeting shall be announced at the meeting. The inspector shall be prohibited from accepting any ballots, proxies or votes or any revocations thereof or changes thereto after the closing of the polls, unless the Delaware Court of Chancery upon application by a stockholder shall determine otherwise.
Opening And Closing Of Polls.
        Section 1.13.
    
    Effective as of the time that the American Express Company, a New York corporation ("American Express") distributes the Common Stock of the Corporation to American Express stockholders, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, and the ability of the stockholders to consent in writing to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
No Stockholder Action By Written Consent.
        Section 2.01.
    
    Except as may otherwise be provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the property, affairs and business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Corporation.
General Powers.
        Section 2.02.
    
    Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock, if any, the number of Directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors; provided, however, that the Board of Directors shall at no time consist of fewer than three (3) Directors.
Number Of Directors.
        Section 2.03.
    
    The Directors of the Corporation, subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any class or series of Preferred Stock, shall be classified with respect to the time for which they severally hold office, into three (3) classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, one class ("Class I") whose initial term expires at the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders, another class ("Class II") whose initial term expires at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, and another class ("Class III") whose initial term expires at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, with each class to hold office until its successors are elected and qualified. Except as otherwise provided in Sections 2.12 and 2.13 of these By-Laws, at each annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, and subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any class or series of Preferred Stock, the successors of the class of Directors whose term expires at that meeting shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following the year of their election.
Classified Board Of Directors; Election Of Directors.
        Section 2.04.
    
    The Directors shall elect from among the members of the Board a "Chairman of the Board". The Chairman of the Board shall be deemed an officer of the Corporation and shall have such duties and powers as set forth in these By-Laws or as shall otherwise be conferred upon the Chairman of the Board from time to time by the Board of Directors.
The Chairman Of The Board.
The Chairman of the Board may be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall, if present, preside over all meetings of the Stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall by resolution establish a procedure to provide for an acting Chairman of the Board in the event the most recently elected Chairman of the Board is unable to serve or act in that capacity.
        Section 2.05.
    
    The annual meeting of the Board of Directors for the purpose of electing officers and for the transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting shall be held after the annual meeting of the stockholders and may be held at such places within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board may from time to time determine, and if so determined notice thereof need not be given. Notice of such annual meeting of the Board of Directors need not be given. The Board of Directors from time to time may by resolution provide for the holding of regular meetings and fix the place (which may be within or without the State of Delaware) and the date and hour of such meetings. Notice of regular meetings need not be given, provided, however, that if the Board of Directors shall fix or change the time or place of any regular meeting, notice of such action shall be mailed promptly, or sent by telephone, including a voice messaging system or other system or technology designed to record and communicate messages, telegraph, facsimile, electronic mail or other electronic means, to each Director who shall not have been present at the meeting at which such action was taken, addressed to him or her at his or her usual place of business, or shall be delivered to him or her personally. Notice of such action need not be given to any Director who attends the first regular meeting after such action is taken without protesting the lack of notice to him or her, prior to or at the commencement of such meeting, or to any Director who submits a signed waiver of notice, whether before or after such meeting.
Annual And Regular Meetings.
        Section 2.06.
    
    Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer (or, in the event of his or her absence or disability, by the President or any Executive Vice President), or by the Board of Directors pursuant to the following sentence, at such place (within or without the State of Delaware), date and hour as may be specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice of such meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors also may be held whenever called pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called on twenty-four (24) hours' notice, if notice is given to each Director personally or by telephone, including a voice messaging system, or other system or technology designed to record and communicate messages, telegraph, facsimile, electronic mail or other electronic means, or on five (5) days' notice, if notice is mailed to each Director, addressed to him or her at his or her usual place of business or to such other address as any Director may request by notice to the Secretary. Notice of any special meeting need not be given to any Director who attends such meeting without protesting the lack of notice to him or her, prior to or at the commencement of such meeting, or to any Director who submits a signed waiver of notice, whether before or after such meeting, and any business may be transacted thereat.
Special Meetings; Notice.
        Section 2.07.
    
    At all meetings of the Board of Directors, the presence of at least a majority of the total authorized number of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Except as otherwise required by law, the vote of at least a majority of the Directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
Quorum; Voting.
        Section 2.08.
    
    A majority of the Directors present, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn any meeting of the Board of Directors to another time or place. No notice need be given of any adjourned meeting unless the time and place of the adjourned meeting are not announced at the time of adjournment, in which case notice conforming to the requirements of Section 2.05 of these By-Laws shall be given to each Director.
Adjournment.
        Section 2.09.
    
    Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and such writing, writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors. Such filing may be in paper form or in electronic form.
Action Without A Meeting.
        Section 2.10.
    
    To the extent consistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of meetings of the Board of Directors and for the management of the property, affairs and business of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may deem appropriate. The Directors shall act only as a Board of Directors and the individual Directors shall have no power in their individual capacities unless expressly authorized by the Board of Directors.
Regulations; Manner Of Acting.
        Section 2.11.
    
    Members of the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this provision shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Action By Telephonic Communications.
        Section 2.12.
    
    Any Director may resign at any time by submitting an electronic transmission or by delivering a written notice of resignation, signed by such Director, to the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary. Unless otherwise specified therein, such resignation shall take effect upon delivery.
Resignations.
        Section 2.13.
    
    Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock, if any, to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, any Director may be removed at any time, but only for cause, upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors. Any vacancy in the Board of Directors caused by any such removal may be filled at a meeting duly called by the stockholders entitled to vote for the election of the Director so removed. If such stockholders do not fill such vacancy at such meeting, such vacancy may be filled in the manner provided in Section 2.14 of these By-Laws.
Removal Of Directors.
        Section 2.14.
    
    Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock, if any, to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, and except as provided in Section 2.13, if any vacancies shall occur in the Board of Directors, by reason of death, resignation, removal or otherwise, or if the authorized number of Directors shall be increased, the Directors then in office shall continue to act, and such vacancies and newly created Directorships may be filled by a majority of the Directors then in office, although less than a quorum. Any Director filling a vacancy shall be of the same class as that of the Director whose death, resignation, removal or other event caused the vacancy, and any Director filling a newly created Directorship shall be of the class specified by the Board of Directors at the time the newly created Directorships were created. A Director elected to fill a vacancy or a newly created Directorship shall hold office until his or her successor has been elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.
Vacancies And Newly Created Directorships.
        Section 2.15.
    
    The amount, if any, which each Director shall be entitled to receive as compensation for such Director's services as such shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Compensation.
        Section 2.16.
    
    A Director, or a member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors shall, in the performance of such Director's or member's duties, be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Corporation and upon information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Corporation by any of the Corporation's officers or employees, or committees designated by the Board of Directors, or by any other person as to the matters the Director or the member reasonably believes are within such other person's professional or expert competence and who the Director or member reasonably believes or determines has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Corporation.
Reliance On Accounts And Reports, Etc.
        Section 3.01.
    
    The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of Directors then in office, may designate from among its members one (1) or more committees of the Board of Directors, each committee to consist of such number of Directors as from time to time may be fixed by the Board of Directors. Any such committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Each such committee shall have the powers and duties delegated to it by the Board of Directors, subject to the limitations set forth in applicable Delaware law. The Board of Directors may appoint a Chairman of any committee, who shall preside at meetings of any such committee. The Board of Directors may elect one or more of its members as alternate members of any such committee who may take the place of any absent member or members at any meeting of such committee, upon request of the Chairman of the Board or the Chairman of such committee.
Committees.
        Section 3.02.
    
    Each committee shall have and may exercise such powers of the Board of Directors as may be provided by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors. No committee shall have the power or authority: to approve or adopt, or recommend to the stockholders, any action
Powers.
or matter expressly required by the Delaware General Corporation Law to be submitted to the stockholders for approval; or to adopt, amend or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation.
        Section 3.03.
    
    Each such committee may fix its own rules of procedure and may meet at such place (within or without the State of Delaware), at such time and upon such notice, if any, as it shall determine from time to time. Each such committee shall keep minutes of its proceedings and shall report such proceedings to the Board of Directors at the meeting of the Board of Directors next following any such proceedings.
Proceedings.
        Section 3.04.
    
    Except as may be otherwise provided in the resolution creating such committee, at all meetings of any committee, the presence of members (or alternate members) constituting a majority of the total authorized membership of such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The act of the majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of any such committee may be taken without a meeting, if all members of such committee shall consent to such action in writing or by electronic transmission and such writing, writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form. The members of any such committee shall act only as a committee, and the individual members of such committee shall have no power in their individual capacities unless expressly authorized by the Board of Directors.
Quorum and Manner of Acting.
        Section 3.05.
    
    Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, members of any committee may participate in a meeting of such committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this provision shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Action by Telephonic Communications.
        Section 3.06.
    
    In the absence or disqualification of a member of any committee, if no alternate member is present to act in his or her stead, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
Absent or Disqualified Members.
        Section 3.07.
    
    Any member (and any alternate member) of any committee may resign at any time by delivering a written notice of resignation, signed by such member, to the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. Unless otherwise specified therein, such resignation shall take effect upon delivery.
Resignations.
        Section 3.08.
    
    Any member (and any alternate member) of any committee may be removed at any time, either for or without cause, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole Board of Directors.
Removal.
        Section 3.09.
    
    If any vacancy shall occur in any committee, by reason of disqualification, death, resignation, removal or otherwise, the remaining members (and any alternate members) shall continue to act, and any such vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors.
Vacancies.
        Section 4.01.
    
    The Board of Directors shall select a Chief Executive Officer to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors who shall (a) supervise the carrying out of policies adopted or approved by the Board of Directors, (b) exercise a general supervision and superintendence over all the business and affairs of the Corporation, and (c) possess such other powers
Chief Executive Officer.
and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by these By-Laws, as may from time to time be assigned by the Board of Directors and as may be incident to the office of Chief Executive Officer.
        Section 4.02.
    
    The Board of Directors shall appoint a Secretary of the Corporation to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The Secretary of the Corporation shall (a) keep minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors, (b) authenticate records of the Corporation and (c) in general, have such powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by these By-Laws, as may from time to time be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer and as may be incident to the office of Secretary of the Corporation.
Secretary Of The Corporation.
        Section 4.03.
    
    At any meeting of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors may elect a President, Vice Presidents, a Chief Financial Officer, a Treasurer, Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Secretaries, or such other officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may deem necessary, to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Other officers elected by the Board of Directors shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such officers by or pursuant to authorization of the Board of Directors or by the Chief Executive Officer.
Other Officers Elected By Board Of Directors.
        Section 4.04.
    
    The Board of Directors may authorize the Corporation to elect or appoint other officers, including Vice Presidents, Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Secretaries and other officers of the Corporation, each of whom shall serve at the pleasure of the Corporation. Officers elected or appointed by the Corporation shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to them by the Corporation.
Other Officers.
        Section 4.05.
    
    Any officer may be removed for or without cause at any time by the Board of Directors. Any officer may resign at any time by delivering a written notice of resignation, signed by such officer, to the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. Unless otherwise specified therein, such resignation shall take effect upon delivery. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise, shall be filled by or pursuant to authorization of the Board of Directors.
Removal And Resignation; Vacancies.
        Section 4.06.
    
    The officers of the Corporation shall have such authority and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be specified in these By-Laws, except that in any event each officer shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be required by law.
Authority And Duties Of Officers.
        Section 5.01.
    
    The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the stock of the Corporation shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until each such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the Board of Directors, every holder of stock in the Corporation represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of, the Corporation, by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, and by the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary of the Corporation or an Assistant Secretary, representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Such certificate shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may
Certificates Of Stock, Uncertificated Shares.
determine, to the extent consistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws.
        Section 5.02.
    
    All signatures on the certificate referred to in Section 5.01 of these By-Laws may be in facsimile, engraved or printed form, to the extent permitted by law. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed, or whose facsimile, engraved or printed signature has been placed upon a certificate, shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Signatures; Facsimile.
        Section 5.03.
    
    The Board of Directors may direct that a new certificate be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon delivery to the Corporation of an affidavit of the owner or owners of such certificate, setting forth such allegation. The Corporation may require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his or her legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of any such new certificate.
Lost, Stolen Or Destroyed Certificates.
        Section 5.04.
    
    Upon surrender to the Corporation or the transfer agent of the Corporation of a certificate for shares, duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Corporation shall issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. Within a reasonable time after the transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to the laws of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may prescribe such additional rules and regulations as it may deem appropriate relating to the issue, transfer and registration of shares of the Corporation.
Transfer Of Stock.
        Section 5.05.
    
    In order to determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor fewer than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting, provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights of the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
Record Date.
        Section 5.06.
    
    Prior to due surrender of a certificate for registration of transfer, the Corporation may treat the registered owner as the person exclusively entitled to receive dividends and other distributions, to vote, to receive notice and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers of the owner of the shares represented by such certificate, and the Corporation shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or legal claim to or interest in such shares on the part of any other person, whether or not the Corporation shall have notice of such claim or interests. Whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer if, when the certificates are presented to the Corporation for transfer or uncertificated shares are requested to be transferred, both the transferor and transferee request the Corporation to do so.
Registered Stockholders.
        Section 5.07.
    
    The Board of Directors may appoint one (1) or more transfer agents and one (1) or more registrars, and may require all certificates representing shares to bear the signature of any such transfer agents or registrars.
Transfer Agent And Registrar.
        Section 6.01.
    
    The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding (a "Proceeding"), whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or she is or was or has agreed to become a Director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a Director or officer, of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity, and may indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to such a Proceeding by reason of the fact that he or she is or was or has agreed to become an employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as an employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her or on his or her behalf in connection with such Proceeding and any appeal therefrom, if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful; except that in the case of a Proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor (1) such indemnification shall be limited to expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in the defense or settlement of such Proceeding, and (2) no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Delaware Court of Chancery or the court in which such Proceeding was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Delaware Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper. Notwithstanding the foregoing, but subject to Section 6.05 of these By-Laws, the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify a Director or officer of the Corporation in respect of a Proceeding (or part thereof) instituted by such Director or officer, unless such Proceeding (or part thereof) has been authorized by the Board of Directors. The termination of any Proceeding by judgment, order settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of
Nature Of Indemnity.
nolo contendere
or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
        Section 6.02.
    
    To the extent that a present or former Director or officer of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any Proceeding referred to in Section 6.01 hereof or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith.
Successful Defense.
        Section 6.03.
    
    Any indemnification of a present or former Director or officer of the Corporation under Section 6.01 hereof (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation unless a determination is made that indemnification of the present or former Director or officer is not proper in the circumstances because he or she has not met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 hereof. Any indemnification of a present or former employee or agent of the Corporation under Section 6.01 hereof (unless ordered by a court)
Determination That Indemnification Is Proper.
may be made by the Corporation upon a determination that indemnification of the present or former employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 hereof. Any such determination shall be made, with respect to a person who is a Director or officer at the time of such determination, (1) by a majority vote of the Directors who are not parties to such Proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (2) by a committee of such Directors designated by majority vote of such Directors, even though less than a quorum, or (3) if there are no such Directors, or if such Directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (4) by the stockholders.
        Section 6.04.
    
    Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a Director or officer in defending any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative Proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such Proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article. Such expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by former Directors and officers or other employees and agents may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Corporation deems appropriate. The Board of Directors may authorize the Corporation's counsel to represent such Director, officer, employee or agent in any Proceeding, whether or not the Corporation is a party to such Proceeding.
Advance Payment Of Expenses.
        Section 6.05.
    
    Any indemnification of a Director or officer of the Corporation under Sections 6.01 and 6.02, or advance of costs, charges and expenses to a Director or officer under Section 6.04 of these By-Laws, shall be made promptly, and in any event within thirty (30) days, upon the written request of the Director or officer. If a determination by the Corporation that the Director or officer is entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Article VI is required, and the Corporation fails to respond within thirty (30) days to a written request for indemnity, the Corporation shall be deemed to have approved such request. If the Corporation denies a written request for indemnity or advancement of expenses, in whole or in part, or if payment in full pursuant to such request is not made within thirty (30) days, the right to indemnification or advances as granted by this Article VI shall be enforceable by the Director or officer in any court of competent jurisdiction. Such person's costs and expenses incurred in connection with successfully establishing his or her right to indemnification, in whole or in part, in any such Proceeding shall also be indemnified by the Corporation. It shall be a defense to any such Proceeding (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for the advance of costs, charges and expenses under Section 6.04 of these By-Laws where the required undertaking, if any, has been received by the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 of these By-Laws, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, its independent legal counsel, and its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 of these By-Laws, nor the fact that there has been an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, its independent legal counsel, and its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Procedure For Indemnification Of Directors And Officers.
        Section 6.06.
    
    The foregoing indemnification provisions shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each Director, officer, employee and agent who serves in any such capacity at any time while these provisions as well as the relevant provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law are in effect and any repeal or modification thereof shall not affect any right or obligation then existing with respect to any state of facts then or previously existing or any Proceeding previously or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts. Such a "contract right" may not be modified retroactively without
Survival; Preservation Of Other Rights.
the consent of such Director, officer, employee or agent. The indemnification provided by this Article VI shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those indemnified may be entitled under any by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested Directors or otherwise, both as to action in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a Director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
        Section 6.07.
    
    The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was or has agreed to become a Director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a Director or officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person or on such person's behalf in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability under the provisions of this Article VI.
Insurance.
        Section 6.08.
    
    If this Article VI or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each Director or officer and may indemnify each employee or agent of the Corporation as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to a Proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including a Proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Article VI that shall not have been invalidated and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Severability.
        Section 7.01.
    
    The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located at Corporation Trust Center, 1209 N. Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.
Initial Registered Office.
        Section 7.02.
    
    The Corporation may maintain offices or places of business at such other locations within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or as the business of the Corporation may require.
Other Offices.
        Section 8.01.
    
    Subject to any applicable provisions of law and the Certificate of Incorporation, dividends upon the shares of the Corporation may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors and any such dividend may be paid in cash, property, or shares of the Corporation's capital stock. A member of the Board of Directors, or a member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Corporation and upon such information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Corporation by any of its officers or employees, or committees of the Board of Directors, or by any other person as to matters the Director reasonably believes are within such other person's professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Corporation, as to the value and amount of the assets, liabilities and/or net profits of the Corporation, or any other facts pertinent to the existence and amount of surplus or other funds from which dividends might properly be declared and paid.
Dividends.
        Section 8.02.
    
    The Board of Directors may authorize, or provide for the authorization of, officers, employees or agents to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any
Execution Of Instruments.
instrument in the name and on behalf of the Corporation. Any such authorization must be in writing or by electronic transmission and may be general or limited to specific contracts or instruments.
        Section 8.03.
    
    Unless otherwise determined by resolution of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Executive Vice President or any Senior Vice President shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Corporation to attend any meeting of stockholders of any corporation in which the Corporation may hold stock, and to act, vote (or execute proxies to vote) and exercise in person or by proxy all other rights, powers and privileges incident to the ownership of such stock. Such officers acting on behalf of the Corporation shall have full power and authority to execute any instrument expressing consent to or dissent from any action of any such corporation without a meeting. The Board of Directors may by resolution from time to time confer such power and authority upon any other person or persons.
Voting As Stockholder.
        These By-Laws may be amended, altered or repealed by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board of Directors at any special or regular meeting of the Board of Directors if, in the case of such special meeting only, notice of such amendment, alteration or repeal is contained in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting or at any regular or special meeting of the stockholders upon the affirmative vote of the holders of three-fourths (/) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors if, in the case of such special meeting only, notice of such amendment, alteration or repeal is contained in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting.
3
4
        In the event of any conflict between the provisions of these By-Laws as in effect from time to time and the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation as in effect from time to time, the provisions of such Certificate of Incorporation shall be controlling.
QuickLinks
AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS OF AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL, INC. Article I Stockholders
Article II Board Of Directors
Article III Committees
Article IV Officers
Article V Capital Stock
Article VI Indemnification
Article VII Offices
Article VIII General Provisions
Article IX Amendment Of By-Laws
Article X Construction

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 10.1
        This TRANSITION SERVICES AGREEMENT (this "
Agreement
") is entered into this 30 day of September, 2005, by and between American Express Company, a New York corporation ("
th
AXP
"), and Ameriprise Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("
Ameriprise
," and, together with AXP, each a "
Party
" and collectively, the "
Parties
").
        WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of AXP has determined that it is in the best interests of AXP to separate the Ameriprise Business (as defined below) and the AXP Business (as defined below) into two independent public companies, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Separation Agreement (as defined below), in order to resolve issues related to the allocation of capital and management resources between the Ameriprise Business and the AXP Business, and to give Ameriprise greater flexibility to manage, invest in, and expand the Ameriprise Business while ensuring that AXP can focus its time and resources on the development of the AXP Business;
        WHEREAS, in order to effectuate the foregoing, AXP and Ameriprise have entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of August 24, 2005 (the "
Separation Agreement
"), pursuant to which and subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, the Ameriprise Business shall be separated from the AXP Business and the Ameriprise Common Stock (as defined below) shall be distributed on a
pro rata
basis to AXP shareholders; and
        WHEREAS, in connection therewith and in order to ensure an orderly transition under the Separation Agreement, AXP desires to provide, through the AXP Service Providers (as defined below), to Ameriprise and its relevant Affiliates, as applicable, with certain transition services (the "
AXP Services
") with respect to the operation of Ameriprise and its relevant Affiliates following the Distribution Date (as defined below), and Ameriprise desires to provide, through the Ameriprise Service Providers (as defined below), to AXP and its Affiliates, as applicable, with certain transition services (the "
Ameriprise Services
") with respect to the operation of AXP and its relevant Affiliates following the Distribution Date, as such AXP Services and Ameriprise Services are more fully described in separate schedules (all such schedules, including any appendices, exhibits or other attachments thereto, the "
Schedules
," and each, a "
Schedule
") to this Agreement.
        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and covenants set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, AXP and Ameriprise hereby agree as follows:
        1.1   Capitalized terms used herein, but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Separation Agreement, as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof, and the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
        
"Ameriprise Data"
means all data relating primarily to the Ameriprise Business (including all files, records and other Information relating primarily to the Ameriprise Business that have been uploaded to Software at any time since AXP or Ameriprise began using such Software, whether uploaded prior to, on, or after the Distribution Date).
        
"Additional Required AXP Service
" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.5.
        
"Additional Required Ameriprise Service"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.6.
        
"Ameriprise"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in the preamble.
        
"Ameriprise Service Providers"
means Ameriprise, its Affiliates and any third party, in each case, to the extent such Person is providing the Ameriprise Services on behalf of Ameriprise pursuant to any Schedule.
        
"Ameriprise Services"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals.
        
"Ameriprise Transition Plan"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.9(b).
        
"AXP"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in the preamble.
        
"AXP Data"
means all data relating primarily to the AXP Business (including all files, records and other Information relating primarily to the AXP Business that have been uploaded to Software at any time since AXP or Ameriprise began using such Software, whether uploaded prior to, on, or after the Distribution Date).
        
"AXP Service Providers"
means AXP, its Affiliates and any third party, in each case, to the extent such Person is providing the AXP Services on behalf of AXP pursuant to any Schedule.
        
"AXP Services
" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals.
        
"AXP Transition Plan"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.9(c).
        
"Best Efforts"
means with respect to either Party, the efforts that such Party would use on behalf of itself to enforce its rights against a third party or cause such third party to honor its obligations to such Party, under any agreement with such third party.
        
"Force Majeure Event"
means any act of God, fire, flood, storm or explosion; any strike, lockout or other labor disturbance; any material shortage of facilities, labor, materials or equipment; any delay in transportation, breakdown or accident; any Law; any riot, war, act of terror, rebellion or insurrection; any embargo or fuel or energy shortage; any interruption in telecommunications or utilities services; or any other event, in each case beyond the control of a Party and that actually prevents, hinders or delays such Party from performing its obligations under this Agreement.
        
"Loss"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 5.8.
        
"Party"
or
"Parties"
shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the preamble.
        
"Prime Rate"
means the "prime rate" published in the "Money Rates" section of
The Wall Street Journal
. If
The Wall Street Journal
ceases to publish the "prime rate," then the Parties shall mutually agree to an equivalent publication that publishes such "prime rate," and if such "prime rate" is no longer generally published or is limited, regulated or administered by a Governmental Authority, then a comparable interest rate index mutually agreed to by the Parties.
        
"Schedules
" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals.
        "
Separation Agreement
" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the recitals.
        
"Service Provider"
means the AXP Service Providers and/or the Ameriprise Service Providers, as the context requires.
        
"Service Recipient"
means either AXP, to the extent AXP is receiving a service from an Ameriprise Service Provider, or Ameriprise, to the extent Ameriprise is receiving a service from an AXP Service Provider, as the context requires.
        
"Services"
means the AXP Services and/or the Ameriprise Services, as the context requires.
        
"SOX"
means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended from time to time.
        
"Taxing Authority"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.5(a)(ii).
        
"Transaction Tax"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.5(a)(i).
        
"Withheld Tax"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.5(e).
        1.2
    General Interpretive Principles.
    (a) Words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and words of one gender shall include the other gender, in each case, as the context requires, (b) the term "hereof," "herein," "hereunder" and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and references to Article, Section, paragraph, exhibit and Schedule are references to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs, exhibits and Schedules to this Agreement unless otherwise specified, (c) the word "including" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall mean "including, without limitation," unless otherwise specified and (d) any reference to any federal, state, local or non-U.S. statute or Law shall be deemed to also refer to all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the context otherwise requires.
        2.1
    AXP Services.
    During the term of this Agreement, AXP shall provide, or shall cause one or more AXP Service Providers to provide, to Ameriprise and its applicable Affiliates (such Affiliates as determined by Ameriprise in its sole discretion), the AXP Services, as such AXP Services are more particularly described in the applicable Schedules attached hereto, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and such applicable Schedules.
        2.2
    Ameriprise Services.
    During the term of this Agreement, Ameriprise shall provide, or shall cause one or more Ameriprise Service Providers to provide, to AXP and its applicable Affiliates (such Affiliates as determined by AXP in its sole discretion), the Ameriprise Services, as such Ameriprise Services are more particularly described in the applicable Schedules attached hereto, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and such applicable Schedules.
        2.3
    Standard of Performance for AXP Services.
    (a) AXP shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, the AXP Services in a manner and at a level that is substantially similar in all material respects to the typical manner and average level at which such AXP Services were provided to Ameriprise or its Affiliate during the three-month period prior to the Distribution Date, except to the extent that (i) a different manner or level of an AXP Service is set forth in a Schedule, in which case such AXP Service shall be provided in the manner and level as set forth in each such applicable Schedule or (ii) such AXP Service has not been provided during the three-month period prior to the Distribution Date and the applicable Schedule does not set forth a manner or level at which such AXP Service is to be provided, in which case, such AXP Service shall be provided in the same manner and at the same level at which such AXP Service was provided to Ameriprise or its Affiliate on the last occasion (or during the three-month period prior to the last occasion) such AXP Service was provided to Ameriprise or its Affiliate.
        (b)   Notwithstanding Section 2.3(a), AXP may change from time to time the manner and level at which any AXP Service is provided to Ameriprise, to the extent that AXP is making a similar change in performing a substantially similar service for itself or its Affiliates and if AXP provides Ameriprise substantially the same notice (in content and timing) as AXP provides itself and its Affiliates with respect to such change;
provided
, that, AXP may not make any change to the manner and level at which any AXP Service is provided to Ameriprise if such change would result in a violation, or cause Ameriprise to be in violation, of applicable Law;
provided
,
further
, if Ameriprise can demonstrate, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, that such change is not commercially reasonable and Ameriprise has suffered a material financial harm as a result of such change, AXP shall be required to restore the manner and level at which such AXP Service is provided to Ameriprise to the manner and level required by Section 2.3(a). No such change shall affect the fees and expenses for the applicable AXP Service.
        (c)   Subject to Section 5.5, in no event shall AXP be liable or accountable, in damages or otherwise, for any error of judgment or any mistake of fact or Law or for any action or omission in connection with the provision of the AXP Services by AXP or any AXP Service Provider that AXP or such AXP Service Provider took or refrained from taking in good faith hereunder, except in the case of AXP's or such AXP Service Provider's intentional breach, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct.
        2.4
    Standard of Performance for Ameriprise Services.
    (a)Ameriprise shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, the Ameriprise Services in a manner and at a level that is substantially similar in all material respects to the typical manner and average level at which such Ameriprise Services were provided to AXP or its Affiliate during the three-month period prior to the Distribution Date, except to the extent that (i) a different manner or level of an Ameriprise Service is set forth in a Schedule, in which case such Ameriprise Service shall be provided in the manner and level as set forth in each such applicable Schedule or (ii) such Ameriprise Service has not been provided during the three-month period prior to the Distribution Date and the applicable Schedule does not set forth a manner or level at which such Ameriprise Service is to be provided, in which case, such Ameriprise Service shall be provided in the same manner and at the same level at which such Ameriprise Service was provided to AXP or its Affiliate on the last occasion (or during the three-month period prior to the last occasion) such Ameriprise Service was provided to AXP or its Affiliate.
        (b)   Notwithstanding Section 2.4(a), Ameriprise may change from time to time the manner and level at which any Ameriprise Service is provided to AXP, to the extent that Ameriprise is making a similar change in performing a substantially similar service for itself and its Affiliates or if Ameriprise provides AXP substantially the same notice (in content and timing) as Ameriprise provides itself and its Affiliates with respect to such change;
provided
, that, Ameriprise may not make any change to the manner and level at which any Ameriprise Service is provided to AXP if such change would result in a violation, or cause AXP to be in violation, of applicable Law;
provided, further
, if AXP can demonstrate, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, that such change is not commercially reasonable and AXP has suffered a material financial harm as a result of such change, Ameriprise shall be required to restore the manner and level at which such Ameriprise Service is provided to AXP to the manner and level required by Section 2.4(a). No such change shall affect the fees and expenses for the applicable Ameriprise Service.
        (c)   Subject to Section 5.6, in no event shall Ameriprise be liable or accountable, in damages or otherwise, for any error of judgment or any mistake of fact or Law or for any action or omission in connection with the provision of the Ameriprise Services by Ameriprise or any Ameriprise Service Provider that Ameriprise or such Ameriprise Service Provider took or refrained from taking in good faith hereunder, except in the case of Ameriprise's or such Ameriprise Service Provider's intentional breach, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct.
        2.5
    Omitted AXP Services.
    If, from time to time during the term of this Agreement, Ameriprise determines that the provision of an additional service is reasonably necessary to enable Ameriprise and its Affiliates to operate on a stand-alone basis, and such service (whether or not then currently being provided) is not included in a Schedule (such service, including without limitation the right to use, or the use of, any Asset in connection with such service, hereinafter referred to as an "
Additional Required AXP Service"
), then Ameriprise may give written notice thereof to AXP in accordance with Section 8.1 hereof. Upon receipt of such notice by AXP, if AXP is willing to provide such Additional Required AXP Service, the Parties will negotiate in good faith a schedule setting forth the Additional Required AXP Service, the terms and conditions (including any service level requirements) for the provision of such Additional Required AXP Service and the fees payable by Ameriprise for such Additional Required AXP Service, such fees to be determined on an arms'-length basis.
        2.6
    Omitted Ameriprise Services.
    If, from time to time during the term of this Agreement, AXP determines that the provision of an additional service is reasonably necessary to enable AXP and its
Affiliates to operate on a stand-alone basis, and such service (whether or not then currently being provided) is not included in a Schedule (such service, including without limitation the right to use, or the use of, any Asset in connection with such service, herein after referred to as an
"Additional Required Ameriprise Service"
), then AXP may give written notice thereof to Ameriprise in accordance with Section 8.1 hereof. Upon receipt of such notice by Ameriprise, if Ameriprise is willing to provide the Additional Required Ameriprise Service, the Parties will negotiate in good faith a schedule setting forth the Additional Required Ameriprise Service, the terms and conditions (including any service level requirements) for the provision of such Additional Required Ameriprise Service and the fees payable by AXP for such Additional Required Ameriprise Service, such fees to be determined on an arms'-length basis.
        2.7
    Interruption of Services.
    (a) If, due to a Force Majeure Event, AXP or an AXP Service Provider is unable, wholly or partially, to perform its obligations hereunder, then AXP shall be relieved of liability and shall suffer no prejudice for failing to perform or comply during the continuance and to the extent of such whole or partial inability to perform its obligations hereunder so caused by such Force Majeure Event;
provided
, that, (i) AXP gives Ameriprise prompt notice, written or oral (but if oral, promptly confirmed in writing) of such whole or partial inability to perform its obligations hereunder and a reasonably detailed description of the cause thereof and (ii) in the event such whole or partial inability to perform its obligations hereunder is a result of AXP's or such AXP Service Provider's capacity or similar limitations, with respect to the allocation of such limited resources, Ameriprise and its Affiliates shall be treated no less favorably by AXP or such AXP Service Provider than AXP or any Affiliate of AXP. If AXP fails to promptly give notice of such Force Majeure Event, then AXP shall only be relieved from such performance or compliance from and after the giving of such notice. AXP shall or shall cause the applicable AXP Service Provider(s) to use its reasonable best efforts to remedy the situation caused by such Force Majeure Event and remove, so far as possible and with reasonable timeliness, the cause of its inability to perform or comply. AXP shall give Ameriprise prompt notice of the cessation of the Force Majeure Event.
        (b)   If, due to a Force Majeure Event, Ameriprise or an Ameriprise Service Provider is unable, wholly or partially, to perform its obligations hereunder, then Ameriprise shall be relieved of liability and shall suffer no prejudice for failing to perform or comply during the continuance and to the extent of such whole or partial inability to perform its obligations hereunder so caused by such Force Majeure Event;
provided
, that, (i) Ameriprise gives AXP prompt notice, written or oral (but if oral, promptly confirmed in writing) of such whole or partial inability to perform its obligations hereunder and a reasonably detailed description of the cause thereof and (ii) in the event such whole or partial inability to perform its obligations hereunder is a result of Ameriprise's or such Ameriprise Service Provider's capacity or similar limitations, with respect to the allocation of such limited resources, AXP and its Affiliates shall be treated no less favorably by Ameriprise or such Ameriprise Service Provider than Ameriprise or any Affiliate of Ameriprise. If Ameriprise fails to promptly give notice of such Force Majeure Event, then Ameriprise shall only be relieved from such performance or compliance from and after the giving of such notice. Ameriprise shall or shall cause the applicable Ameriprise Service Provider(s) to use its reasonable best efforts to remedy the situation caused by such Force Majeure Event and remove, so far as possible and with reasonable timeliness, the cause of its inability to perform or comply. Ameriprise shall give AXP prompt notice of the cessation of the Force Majeure Event.
        2.8
    Access.
    (a) Ameriprise shall, and shall cause its applicable Affiliates to, make available on a timely basis to each AXP Service Provider such Information reasonably requested by such AXP Service Provider to enable such AXP Service Provider to provide the AXP Services. Ameriprise shall, and shall cause its applicable Affiliates to, provide to the AXP Service Providers reasonable access to the premises of Ameriprise and such Affiliates and the systems, software and networks located therein, to the extent necessary for the purpose of providing the AXP Services. AXP shall ensure that it and the
other AXP Service Providers comply with applicable Law and Ameriprise's security and other policies and procedures, as may be provided to AXP by Ameriprise in writing from time to time.
        (b)   AXP shall, and shall cause its applicable Affiliates to, make available on a timely basis to each Ameriprise Service Provider such Information reasonably requested by such Ameriprise Service Provider to enable such Ameriprise Service Provider to provide the Ameriprise Services. AXP shall, and shall cause its applicable Affiliates to, provide to the Ameriprise Service Providers reasonable access to the premises of AXP and such Affiliates and the systems, software and networks located therein, to the extent necessary for the purpose of providing the Ameriprise Services. Ameriprise shall ensure that it and the other Ameriprise Service Providers comply with applicable Law and AXP's security and other policies and procedures, as may be provided to Ameriprise by AXP in writing from time to time.
        2.9
    Transition of Responsibilities.
    (a) Each Party agrees to use its good faith efforts to reduce or eliminate its and its Affiliates' dependency on each Service as soon as is reasonably practicable. AXP agrees to cooperate with Ameriprise to facilitate the smooth transition of responsibility for the AXP Services to Ameriprise or any third party. Ameriprise agrees to cooperate with AXP to facilitate the smooth transition of responsibility for the Ameriprise Services to AXP or any third party.
        (b)   As promptly as practicable, AXP and Ameriprise will agree in good faith to a plan for Ameriprise to assume responsibility or eliminate the need for the provision of each AXP Service (the "
Ameriprise Transition Plan
"). The Ameriprise Transition Plan will contain a schedule of transition events, including the expected date by which the Ameriprise Transition Plan will be completed, any training (including the transfer of knowledge and expertise) that will be needed by Ameriprise and the estimated costs and expenses, if any, to be paid by Ameriprise to AXP with respect to such training and other services that AXP agrees to provide to Ameriprise in order to facilitate the completion of the Ameriprise Transition Plan.
        (c)   As promptly as practicable, AXP and Ameriprise will agree in good faith to a plan for AXP to assume responsibility or eliminate the need for the provision of each Ameriprise Service (the
"AXP Transition Plan"
). The AXP Transition Plan will contain a schedule of transition events, including the expected date by which the AXP Transition Plan will be completed, any training (including the transfer of knowledge and expertise) that will be needed by AXP and the estimated costs and expenses, if any, to be paid by AXP to Ameriprise with respect to such training and other services that Ameriprise agrees to provide to AXP in order to facilitate the completion of the AXP Transition Plan.
        3.1
    Fees and Expenses.
    The fees and expenses for each of the Services to be provided hereunder are set forth in each Schedule.
        3.2
    Billing and Payment; No Set-off.
    Amounts payable in respect of Services under this Agreement shall be invoiced to the Party receiving such Services monthly in arrears and paid to the Party providing such Services, as directed by such providing Party, which amounts shall be due within 30 days after the date of invoice. All amounts due and payable hereunder shall be invoiced and, except as set forth in any Schedule hereto, paid in U.S. dollars without offset, set-off, deduction or counterclaim, however arising.
        3.3
    Additional Costs.
    (a) Ameriprise shall reimburse AXP for the costs designated in each Schedule as reimbursable by Ameriprise. If it is necessary for AXP or any AXP Service Provider to incur any additional costs in connection with the provision of the AXP Services, AXP shall inform Ameriprise of such need before any such additional cost is incurred. Upon mutual written agreement of Ameriprise and AXP, as to the necessity of any such increase, Ameriprise shall advance, or shall cause
to be advanced, to AXP an amount equal to the estimated costs and expenses to be reasonably incurred in connection therewith. If the actual costs and expenses incurred by AXP or such AXP Service Provider are greater than the estimated costs, the necessity of increased costs shall again be subject to the mutual written agreement of the Parties, and if the Parties cannot agree, AXP shall return the advance of estimated costs to the extent not previously expended by AXP in connection with the provision of such AXP Service. If the actual costs and expenses incurred by AXP or such AXP Service Provider are less than the estimated costs and expenses, AXP shall repay, to Ameriprise, the difference between the actual and estimated costs and expenses.
        (b)   AXP shall reimburse Ameriprise for the costs designated in each Schedule as reimbursable by AXP. If it is necessary for Ameriprise or any Ameriprise Service Provider to incur any additional costs in connection with the provision of the Ameriprise Services, Ameriprise shall inform AXP of such need before any such additional cost is incurred. Upon mutual written agreement of AXP and Ameriprise, as to the necessity of any such increase, AXP shall advance, or shall cause to be advanced, to Ameriprise an amount equal to the estimated costs and expenses to be reasonably incurred in connection therewith. If the actual costs and expenses incurred by AXP or such AXP Service Provider are greater than the estimated costs, the necessity of increased costs shall again be subject to the mutual written agreement of the Parties, and if the Parties cannot agree, Ameriprise shall return the advance of estimated costs to the extent not previously expended by Ameriprise in connection with the provision of such Ameriprise Service. If the actual costs and expenses incurred by AXP or such AXP Service Provider are less than the estimated costs and expenses, Ameriprise shall repay, to AXP, the difference between the actual and estimated costs and expenses.
        3.4
    Late Payments.
    Late payments shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Prime Rate plus 2%.
        3.5
    Taxes.
    (a)
Separate Statement
.
        (i)    The fees and expenses set forth in the Schedules and to be paid for the services provided pursuant to this Agreement do not include any amount of sales, use, excise, gross receipts, value added, goods and services, or any other transaction or revenue based taxes applicable to the provision of the services (each such tax, together with any applicable interest, penalties, or additions to tax imposed with respect to such tax, a "
Transaction Tax
"), unless the separate statement of such Transaction Tax is prohibited by Law.
        (ii)   The Service Provider shall separately state and identify in the invoices, usage reports, and/or descriptive materials provided (electronically or otherwise) to the Service Recipient any amount of Transaction Taxes that the Service Provider undertakes to collect from the Service Recipient and remit to the appropriate Governmental Authority or other authority responsible for the collection of such Transaction Taxes (each a "
Taxing Authority
").
        (b)
    Good Faith Collection and Identification.
    
        (i)    The Service Provider shall act in good faith to collect from the Service Recipient and remit to the appropriate Taxing Authority those Transaction Taxes imposed by the jurisdictions in which the Service Provider is registered as a "vendor" to collect and remit such Transaction Taxes;
provided, however
, that the delivery by the Service Recipient to the Service Provider of a resale certificate, exemption certificate, or self-pay permit shall be deemed to be the equivalent of good faith collection and remission.
        (ii)   The Service Provider shall act in good faith to describe the services rendered pursuant to this Agreement in the invoices, usage reports, and/or descriptive materials provided (electronically or otherwise) to the Service Recipient with specificity sufficient to determine the applicability of Transaction Taxes.
        (iii)  The Service Recipient, pursuant to this Agreement, shall act in good faith to identify the physical location and taxing jurisdictions in which its receives the benefit of the services provided in the purchase orders, usage reports, and/or descriptive materials provided (electronically or otherwise) to the Service Provider to determine the applicability of Transaction Taxes.
        (c)
    Indemnification.
    
        (i)    The Service Recipient, pursuant to this Agreement, shall be solely liable for the payment of any Transaction Tax applicable to such receipt, without regard to the identity of the Party on whom the Liability for the Transaction Tax is imposed by statute, regulation, or otherwise, unless the payment of such Transaction Tax by the Service Recipient is prohibited by Law.
        (A)  It is the sole responsibility of the Service Recipient pursuant to this Agreement, to provide the Service Provider with all geographic and jurisdictional Information necessary to determine the Transaction Taxes applicable to the provision of services under this Agreement, and any failure to provide such Information shall relieve the Service Provider from responsibility for any act or failure to act resulting in the imposition of an incorrect amount of Transaction Tax or otherwise avoidable multiple impositions of Transaction Tax.
        (B)  The failure of the Service Provider to separately state, collect, and/or remit any applicable Transaction Tax shall not relieve the Service Recipient pursuant to this Agreement, from Liability for the payment of any applicable Transaction Tax.
        (ii)   The Party receiving a service pursuant to this Agreement shall indemnify and hold the Service Provider harmless from any Liability arising from any failure to separately state, collect, and/or remit any applicable Transaction Tax, plus any reasonable costs, fees, and expenses incurred by the Service Provider in the defense of such Liability.
        (iii)  The Service Provider shall have no Liability for any over-collection of Transaction Taxes from the Service Recipient, pursuant to this Agreement, that are remitted to a Taxing Authority as long as such over-collection was made in good faith;
provided, however
, that if the Service Provider is a necessary party to the filing of a claim for the refund of any over-collected Transaction Taxes, then the Service Provider shall reasonably cooperate with the Service Recipient pursuant to this Agreement in the preparation and filing of the such refund claim.
        (iv)
    No Limitation on Liability.
    
        (A)  Any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the indemnification provided pursuant to this Section 3.5(c) shall not be subject to or included in the computation of the maximum liability limitation set forth in either Section 5.7(a) or Section 5.7(b) of this Agreement.
        (B)  Any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the indemnification provided pursuant to this Section 3.5(c) shall not be subject to the restriction on incidental, consequential, and punitive damages set forth in Section 5.7(c) of this Agreement to the extent that such damages are imposed by or arise as a result of the collection of a Transaction Tax by a Taxing Authority.
        (d)   This Agreement contemplates that the legal relationship between the Service Provider and the Service Recipient may vary with the services being provided and that a Service Provider may be simultaneously acting in one or more of the following capacities: (i) purchasing agent, (ii) reseller and/or (iii) provider of services.
        (i)    In the event the Service Provider purchases services from a third-party provider for use and consumption by the Service Recipient "as acquired", and the contractual relationship with the third-party provider allows for the purchase of the services by both Parties, the Service Provider shall be the appointed purchasing agent of the Service Recipient and the administration of the Transaction Taxes shall reflect such agency relationship.
        (ii)   In the event the Service Provider purchases services for use and consumption by the Service Recipient from a third-party provider "as acquired" and the contractual relationship with the third-party provider does not allow for the purchase of the services by both of the Parties, the Service Provider shall resell the services to the Service Recipient and the administration of the Transaction Taxes shall reflect such reseller relationship.
        (iii)  In the event the Service Provider either (i) modifies services acquired from a third-party provider for delivery of services to the Service Recipient under this Agreement, (ii) incorporates services acquired from a third-party provider into services for delivery to the Service Recipient under this Agreement, or (iii) provides Services to the Service Recipient without the purchase of services acquired from a third-party provider, the Service Provider shall be deemed to be the provider of the services and the administration of the Transaction Taxes shall reflect such provision of services by the Service Provider.
        (e)   Each Party shall withhold and pay over to the Governmental Authority responsible for the collection of any amount of income tax or other assessment, charge, regulatory fee or other amount required by Law or regulation to be withheld from payments made to the other Party pursuant to this Agreement (the
"Withheld Tax"
), and the Withheld Tax shall be credited to the account of the Party from whose payment the Withheld Tax was withheld.
        (f)    Any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, no Party shall be responsible for any taxes imposed on the other Party measured by income, capital, or resulting from the existence or general Business operations of the other Party other than those resulting from an indemnified Loss including, but not limited to, any amount of Withheld Tax.
        (g)   It is hereby acknowledged that a Service Provider may pay Transaction Taxes to a Taxing Authority or a third-party vendor and such Service Provider may not be capable of identifying or communicating Information regarding such payment to the Service Recipient. The Parties shall cooperate to identify purchases on which Transaction Taxes have been previously paid or remitted to reduce the occurrence of any over-collection of such Transaction Taxes.
        (h)   Subject to Sections 5.10 and 8.9, the Parties agree to and shall, from time to time, do and perform such other and further acts, and execute and deliver any and all such other and further instruments as may be required by Law or reasonably requested by the other Party to establish, maintain, and protect the respective rights and remedies of the other Party as provided in this Agreement with respect to Transaction Taxes and Withheld Taxes.
        4.1
    Confidentiality Obligations.
    (a) Each Party acknowledges (i) that such Party has in its possession and in connection with the provision of Services hereunder, such Party will receive Information of the other Party that is not available to the general public, and (ii) that such Information
may constitute, contain or include material non-public Information of the other Party. Subject to Section 4.1(c), AXP, on behalf of itself and each of its Affiliates, and Ameriprise, on behalf of itself and each of its Affiliates, agrees to hold, and to cause its respective directors, officers, employees, agents, third party contractors, vendors, Service Providers, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives to hold, in strict confidence, with at least the same degree of care that such Party applies to its own confidential and proprietary Information pursuant to its applicable policies and procedures in effect as of the Distribution Date, all Information concerning the other Party (or its Business) and such other Party's Affiliates (or their respective Business) that is either in its possession (including Information in its possession prior to the Distribution Date) or furnished by the other Party or the other Party's Affiliates or their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, third party contractors, vendors, Service Providers, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives at any time pursuant to this Agreement, and will not use such Information other than for such purposes as may be expressly permitted hereunder, except, in each case, to the extent that such Information: (i) is or becomes available to the general public, other than as a result of a disclosure by such Party or its Affiliates or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, third party contractors, vendors, Service Providers, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives in breach of this Agreement; (ii) was available to such Party or its Affiliates or becomes available to such Party or its Affiliates, on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the other Party hereto;
provided
, that, the source of such Information was not bound by a confidentiality obligation with respect to such Information, or otherwise prohibited from transmitting the Information to such Party or its Affiliates by a contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation; or (iii) is independently generated by such Party without use of or reference to any proprietary or confidential Information of the other Party.
        (b)
    No Release, Compliance with Law, Return or Destruction.
    Each Party agrees not to release or disclose, or permit to be released or disclosed, any such Information to any other Person, except its directors, officers, employees, agents, third party contractors, vendors, Service Providers, accountants, counsel, lenders, investors and other advisors and representatives who need to know such Information in order to provide the Services pursuant to this Agreement, and except in compliance with Section 4.1(c). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, each Party shall advise its directors, officers, employees, agents, third party contractors, vendors, Service Providers, accountants, counsel, lenders, investors and other advisors and representatives who have been provided with such Information of such Party's confidentiality obligations hereunder and that such Information may constitute, contain or include material non-public Information of the other Party. Each party shall, and shall cause, its directors, officers, employees, agents, third party contractors, vendors, Service Providers, accountants, counsel, lenders, investors and other advisors and representatives who have been provided with such Information to use such Information only in accordance with (i) the terms of this Agreement and (ii) applicable Law (including federal and state securities Laws). Each Party shall promptly, after receiving a written request of the other Party, return to the other Party all such Information in a tangible form (including all copies thereof and all notes, extracts or summaries based thereon) or certify to the other Party that it has destroyed such Information (and such copies thereof and such notes, extracts or summaries based thereon), as directed by the other Party.
        (c)
    Protective Arrangements.
    Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that either Party or any of its directors, officers, employees, agents, third party contractors, vendors, Service Providers, accountants, counsel, lenders, investors and other advisors and representatives either determines on the advice of its counsel that it is required to disclose any Information pursuant to applicable Law or the rules or regulations of a Governmental Authority or receives any demand under lawful process or from any Governmental Authority to disclose or provide Information of the other Party that is subject to the confidentiality provisions hereof, such Party shall, if possible, notify the other Party prior to disclosing or providing such Information and shall cooperate at the expense of the requesting Party in seeking any reasonable protective arrangements requested by such other Party. In the event that a protective arrangement is not timely obtained, the Person that received such request
(i) may thereafter disclose or provide such Information to the extent required by such Law (as so advised by counsel) or by lawful process or such Governmental Authority, without liability therefor and (ii) shall exercise its reasonable best efforts to have confidential treatment accorded any such Information so furnished.
        5.1
    Warranties and Disclaimer of Warranty by AXP.
    (a) AXP represents and warrants to Ameriprise as of the date hereof and at all times during which the AXP Services are provided to Ameriprise, that:
        (i)    Subject to the receipt of the Consents set forth on
Exhibit 5.3
hereof, neither the provision of the AXP Services by any AXP Service Provider, nor the receipt or use thereof by Ameriprise in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof, shall breach, violate, infringe upon or constitute misappropriation of any Intellectual Property right of any Person. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, of the Separation Agreement and of the other Ancillary Agreements, the provision of the AXP Services will not confer on Ameriprise any Intellectual Property rights, except as explicitly provided herein or therein.
        (ii)   The AXP Services will be performed in a timely manner consistent with this Agreement, as each individual Schedule may require, by qualified individuals with appropriate subject matter expertise, in a professional and workmanlike manner, conforming to generally accepted industry standards and practices applicable to each individual Schedule and in strict accordance with all applicable Laws.
        (b)   EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE AXP SERVICES TO BE PURCHASED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT ARE PROVIDED AS IS, WHERE IS, WITH ALL FAULTS, AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR ANY OTHER WARRANTY WHATSOEVER.
        5.2
    Warranties and Disclaimer of Warranty by Ameriprise.
    (a) Ameriprise represents and warrants to AXP as of the date hereof and at all times during which the Ameriprise Services are provided to AXP, that:
        (i)    Subject to the receipt of the Consents set forth on
Exhibit 5.4
hereof, neither the provision of the Ameriprise Services by any Ameriprise Service Provider, nor the receipt or use thereof by AXP in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof, shall breach, violate, infringe upon or constitute misappropriation of any Intellectual Property right of any Person. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, of the Separation Agreement and of the other Ancillary Agreements, the provision of the Ameriprise Services will not confer on AXP any Intellectual Property rights, except as explicitly provided herein or therein.
        (ii)   The Ameriprise Services will be performed in a timely manner consistent with this Agreement, as each individual Schedule may require, by qualified individuals with appropriate subject matter expertise, in a professional and workmanlike manner, conforming to generally accepted industry standards and practices applicable to each individual Schedule and in strict accordance with all applicable Laws.
        (b)   EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE AMERIPRISE SERVICES TO BE PURCHASED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT ARE PROVIDED AS IS, WHERE IS, WITH ALL FAULTS, AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR ANY OTHER WARRANTY WHATSOEVER.
        5.3
    Third Parties and AXP Services.
    (a) AXP and Ameriprise shall cooperate to obtain all Consents (including those set forth on
Exhibits 5.3
and
5.4
) sufficient to enable the AXP Service Providers to perform the AXP Services in accordance with this Agreement for any third party Software or other Intellectual Property related to the provision of the AXP Services;
provided
, that, AXP shall not be required to incur any costs in connection therewith. Ameriprise will cooperate with AXP in obtaining all such required Consents related to the provision of the AXP Services and Ameriprise shall bear any costs incurred in connection therewith,
provided
,
further
, that Ameriprise shall only be required to reimburse AXP for those expenses incurred by AXP that Ameriprise has previously approved in writing. Attached hereto as
Exhibit 5.3
is a list of required Consents for any third party Software or other Intellectual Property known to be related to, and necessary for, the provision of the AXP Services and an estimate of charges to be imposed by third party software providers. In the event that any such Consent is not obtained, then, unless and until such Consent is obtained, during the term of the applicable Schedule, the Parties shall cooperate with each other in achieving a reasonable alternative arrangement for Ameriprise to continue to process its work and with respect to such third party Software or Intellectual Property for the AXP Service Providers to perform the AXP Services.
        (b)   Nothing contained in this Agreement shall preclude Ameriprise from enforcing any rights or benefits available to it or AXP, or availing itself of any rights or defenses available to it or AXP under any third party agreement pursuant to which AXP Services are being provided to Ameriprise.
        5.4
    Third Parties and Ameriprise Services.
    (a) AXP and Ameriprise shall cooperate to obtain all Consents (including those set forth on
Exhibits 5.3
and
5.4
) sufficient to enable the Ameriprise Service Providers to perform the Ameriprise Services in accordance with this Agreement for any third party Software or other Intellectual Property related to the provision of the Ameriprise Services;
provided
, that, Ameriprise shall not be required to incur any costs in connection therewith. AXP will cooperate with Ameriprise in obtaining all such required Consents related to the provision of the Ameriprise Services and shall bear any costs in connection therewith;
provided, further
, that AXP shall only be required to reimburse Ameriprise for those expenses incurred by Ameriprise that AXP has previously approved in writing. Attached hereto as
Exhibit 5.4
is a list of required Consents for any third party Software or other Intellectual Property known to be related to, and necessary for, the provision of the Ameriprise Services and an estimate of charges to be imposed by third party Software providers. In the event that any such Consent is not obtained, then, unless and until such Consent is obtained, during the term of the applicable Schedule the Parties shall cooperate with each other in achieving a reasonable alternative arrangement with respect to such third party Software or Intellectual Property for AXP to continue to process its work and for the Ameriprise Service Providers to perform the Ameriprise Services.
        (b)   Nothing contained in this Agreement shall preclude AXP from enforcing any rights or benefits available to it or Ameriprise, or availing itself of any rights or defenses available to it or Ameriprise under any third party agreement pursuant to which Ameriprise Services are being provided to AXP.
        5.5
    Obligation to Re-perform AXP Services.
    In the event of any breach of this Agreement by AXP or any other AXP Service Provider with respect to any failure by AXP or an AXP Service Provider, as applicable, to provide any AXP Service in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, AXP shall, or shall cause the applicable AXP Service Provider to, correct in all material respects such error or defect or re-perform in all material respects such AXP Service at the request of Ameriprise and at the expense of AXP. To be effective, any such request by Ameriprise must (i) specify in reasonable detail the particular error or defect and (ii) be made no more than ninety (90) days from the date such error or defect was discovered by Ameriprise or should have been discovered by Ameriprise after reasonable inquiry.
        5.6
    Obligation to Re-perform Ameriprise Services.
    In the event of any breach of this Agreement by Ameriprise or any other Ameriprise Service Provider with respect to any failure by AXP or an AXP Service Provider, as applicable, to provide any Ameriprise Service in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, Ameriprise shall, or shall cause the applicable Ameriprise Service Provider to, correct in all material respects such error or defect or re-perform in all material respects such Ameriprise Service at the request of AXP and at the expense of Ameriprise. To be effective, any such request by AXP must (i) specify in reasonable detail the particular error or defect and (ii) be made no more than ninety (90) days from the date such error or defect was discovered by AXP or should have been discovered by AXP after reasonable inquiry.
        5.7
    LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
    NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING HEREIN TO THE CONTRARY:
        (a)   EXCEPT FOR ANY LIABILITIES THAT MAY BE INCURRED UNDER SECTION 3.5(C), THE MAXIMUM LIABILITY OF AXP TO, AND (EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN SECTION 5.5) THE SOLE REMEDY OF, AMERIPRISE AND ITS AFFILIATES (AND THEIR RESPECTIVE DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, AGENTS, VENDORS, AMERIPRISE SERVICE PROVIDERS AND EMPLOYEES) WITH RESPECT TO ANY AND ALL CLAIMS ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH THE PROVISION OF THE AXP SERVICES BY AXP OR ANY AXP SERVICE PROVIDER, REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY UPON WHICH THE LIABILITY IS PREMISED, SHALL NOT EXCEED THE FEES RECEIVED BY AXP WITH RESPECT TO THE PROVISION OF THE AXP SERVICE(S) TO WHICH SUCH CLAIM RELATES IN THE MONTHLY PERIOD(S) IN WHICH THE ACTION OR OMISSION OF AXP THAT GAVE RISE TO SUCH CLAIM OCCURRED OR WAS PENDING;
        (b)   EXCEPT FOR ANY LIABILITIES THAT MAY BE INCURRED UNDER SECTION 3.5(C), THE MAXIMUM LIABILITY OF AMERIPRISE TO, AND (EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN SECTION 5.6) THE SOLE REMEDY OF, AXP AND ITS AFFILIATES (AND THEIR RESPECTIVE DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, AGENTS, VENDORS, AXP SERVICE PROVIDERS AND EMPLOYEES) WITH RESPECT TO ANY AND ALL CLAIMS ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH THE PROVISION OF THE AMERIPRISE SERVICES BY AMERIPRISE OR ANY OTHER AMERIPRISE SERVICE PROVIDER, REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY UPON WHICH THE LIABILITY IS PREMISED, SHALL NOT EXCEED THE FEES RECEIVED BY AMERIPRISE WITH RESPECT TO THE PROVISION OF THE AMERIPRISE SERVICE(S) TO WHICH SUCH CLAIM RELATES IN THE MONTHLY PERIOD(S) IN WHICH THE ACTION OR OMISSION OF AMERIPRISE THAT GAVE RISE TO SUCH CLAIM OCCURRED OR WAS PENDING;
        (c)   EXCEPT FOR ANY LIABILITIES THAT MAY BE INCURRED UNDER SECTION 3.5(C), IN NO EVENT SHALL EITHER PARTY BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY OR ITS AFFILIATES (OR THEIR RESPECTIVE DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, AGENTS, SERVICE PROVIDERS OR EMPLOYEES) FOR INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT, EVEN IF THE PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, AND EACH PARTY HEREBY WAIVES ON BEHALF OF ITSELF, ITS AFFILIATES AND THEIR RESPECTIVE DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, AGENTS, SERVICE PROVIDERS OR EMPLOYEES ANY CLAIM FOR SUCH DAMAGES INCLUDING ANY CLAIM FOR PROPERTY DAMAGE OR LOST PROFITS, WHETHER ARISING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE;
        (d)   IN NO EVENT SHALL AXP BE LIABLE FOR THE ACTS OR OMISSIONS OF THIRD PARTY AXP SERVICE PROVIDERS TO THE EXTENT THAT AXP HAS EMPLOYED BEST EFFORTS (AS DEFINED HEREIN) TO INDUCE OR CAUSE SUCH THIRD PARTY AXP SERVICE PROVIDER TO PROVIDE THE AXP SERVICES IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE MANNER AND LEVELS AGREED TO HEREUNDER; AND
        (e)   IN NO EVENT SHALL AMERIPRISE BE LIABLE FOR THE ACTS OR OMISSIONS OF THIRD PARTY AMERIPRISE SERVICE PROVIDERS TO THE EXTENT THAT AMERIPRISE HAS EMPLOYED BEST EFFORTS (AS DEFINED HEREIN) TO INDUCE OR CAUSE SUCH THIRD PARTY AMERIPRISE SERVICE PROVIDER TO PROVIDE THE AMERIPRISE SERVICES IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE MANNER AND LEVELS AGREED TO HEREUNDER.
        5.8
    AXP Indemnity.
    AXP shall indemnify and hold harmless Ameriprise and its Affiliates (and their respective directors, officers, agents, Ameriprise Service Providers and employees) from and against any and all claims, demands, complaints, damages, loss, liability, cost or expense (each of the foregoing, a "
Loss
") arising out of, relating to or in connection with (i) any Action that determined that the provision by any AXP Service Provider and/or the receipt by Ameriprise or its Affiliates of any AXP Service infringes upon or misappropriates the Intellectual Property of any third party, to the extent that any such Loss is determined to have resulted from such AXP Service Provider's intentional breach, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct or (ii) any action or omission by an Ameriprise Service Provider in providing the Ameriprise Services hereunder, except to the extent any such Loss arises from such Ameriprise Service Provider's intentional breach, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct.
        5.9
    Ameriprise Indemnity.
    Ameriprise shall indemnify and hold harmless AXP and its Affiliates (and their respective directors, officers, agents, AXP Service Providers and employees) from and against any and all Losses arising out of, relating to or in connection with (i) any Action that determined that the provision by any Ameriprise Service Provider and/or the receipt by AXP or its Affiliates of any Ameriprise Service infringes upon or misappropriates the Intellectual Property of any third party to the extent that any such Loss is determined to have resulted from such Ameriprise Service Provider's intentional breach, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct, or (ii) any action or omission by an AXP Service Provider in providing the AXP Services hereunder, except to the extent any such Loss arises from such AXP Service Provider's intentional breach, fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct.
        5.10
    Escalation.
    In the event that any dispute arises between the Parties that cannot be resolved pursuant to the escalation path set forth in a Schedule, if any, either Party shall have the right to refer the dispute for resolution to the Coordinators listed in such Schedule by delivering to the other Party a written notice of such referral (a "
Dispute Escalation Notice
"). Following receipt of a Dispute Escalation Notice, the Coordinators shall negotiate in good faith to resolve such dispute. In the event that the Coordinators are unable to resolve such dispute within five (5) business days after the date of the Dispute Escalation Notice, either Party shall have the right to refer the dispute to the chief financial officers of the Parties, who shall negotiate in good faith to resolve such dispute. In the event that the chief financial officers of the parties are unable to resolve such dispute within 15 business days after the date of the Dispute Escalation Notice, either Party shall have the right to refer the dispute to the chief executive officers of the Parties, who shall negotiate in good faith to resolve such dispute. In the event that the chief executive officers of the Parties are unable to resolve such dispute within 30 business days after the date of the Dispute Escalation Notice, either Party shall have the right to commence litigation in accordance with Section 8.9 hereof. The Parties agree that all discussions, negotiations and other Information exchanged between the Parties during the foregoing escalation proceedings shall be without prejudice to the legal position of a Party in any subsequent Action.
        6.1   If requested by Ameriprise, AXP shall and shall cause each AXP Service Provider to permit Ameriprise reasonable access (in addition to the access required by Section 2.8) to its respective books,
records, accountants, accountants' work papers, personnel and facilities for the purpose of Ameriprise's testing and verification of the effectiveness of each AXP Service Provider's controls with respect to AXP Services as is reasonably necessary to enable the management of Ameriprise to comply with its obligations under SOX 404 and to enable Ameriprise's independent public accounting firm to attest to and report on the assessment of the management of Ameriprise in accordance with SOX 404 and Accounting Standard No. 2, as amended, or as required by Ameriprise's external auditors;
provided, however
, that in lieu of providing such access, AXP may, in its sole discretion, instead furnish Ameriprise with a type II SAS 70 report; and
provided, further
, that AXP shall not be required to furnish Ameriprise access to any information other than information that relates specifically to AXP Services. Ameriprise is not required to file a SOX 404 assessment for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2005. Accordingly, with respect to periods prior to first quarter 2006, AXP shall only be required to provide Information with respect to AXP Services as is reasonably required by Ameriprise in order to enable Ameriprise to make the certifications required under SOX 302.
        6.2   If requested by AXP, Ameriprise shall and shall cause each Ameriprise Service Provider to permit AXP reasonable access (in addition to the access required by Section 2.8(a)) to its respective books, records, accountants and accountants' work papers, personnel and facilities for the purpose of AXP's testing and verification of the effectiveness of each Ameriprise Service Provider's controls with respect to Ameriprise Services as is reasonably necessary to enable the management of AXP to comply with its obligations under SOX 404 and AXP's independent public accounting firm to attest to and report on the assessment of the management of AXP in accordance with SOX 404 and Accounting Standard No. 2, as amended, or as required by AXP's external auditors;
provided, however
, that in lieu of providing such access, Ameriprise may, in its sole discretion, instead furnish AXP with a type II SAS 70 report; and
provided, further
, that Ameriprise shall not be required to furnish AXP access to any information other than Information that relates specifically to Ameriprise Services.
        6.3   Without limiting the generality of, and in order to give effect to, the foregoing provisions of Article VI:
        (a)   the Parties shall cooperate, prior to the Distribution Date and from time to time thereafter, to identify the significant processes provided by each Party to the other Party in connection with the provision of the Services hereunder;
        (b)   each Party shall develop and maintain comprehensive procedures to adequately test, evaluate and document the design and effectiveness of its controls over such significant processes;
        (c)   each Party as Service Provider shall provide to the other Party, its auditors and any third party that such other Party has retained to assist it with its SOX 404 compliance (subject to such third party's having signed an appropriate confidentiality agreement with the Party that is providing the relevant Information), no later than the 30th day of the last month of each fiscal quarter ending in March, June, September and December during which the Service Provider provided a Service comprising a significant process to the other Party, adequate documentation (it being acknowledged and agreed that documentation that is substantially similar to the Information currently included in AXP's Magique system shall be deemed adequate) with respect to the testing of its controls over the significant processes;
        (d)   in the event any deficiencies are found as a result of the testing, the Service Provider and the Service Recipient shall cooperate in good faith to develop and implement commercially reasonable action plans and timetables to remedy such deficiencies and/or implement adequate compensating controls;
provided, however
, that if a Party as Service Provider provides a substantially similar service for itself or its Affiliates, then such Party as Service Provider shall not be required to take any actions that are different from the actions that such Party is taking with respect to such services that it provides for itself or its Affiliates, unless the control deficiency is or could reasonably be expected to be a material weakness in the Service Recipients' internal control over financial reporting (and the Service Recipient
shall share its analysis in this regard with the Service Provider), in which case the Service Provider shall cooperate in good faith with the Service Recipient to develop and implement in a timely fashion commercially reasonable action plans and timetables to remedy the deficiency and/or implement adequate compensating controls such that the deficiency will not rise to the level of a material weakness;
provided further
, that, if, as a result of such remedy and/or implementation, the Service Provider is required to take actions that are different than the actions that the Service Provider is taking with respect to the substantially similar services that it provides for itself or its Affiliates, the Service Recipient shall be obligated to fund the incremental costs incurred by the Service Provider, including all out of pocket incremental costs, plus a reasonable allocation of costs of employees who are diverted from providing services that such employees would otherwise be providing to the Service Provider during the period of such remedy and/or implementation;
        (e)   the Service Provider shall, if requested by the Service Recipient, make its personnel and testing and documentation available to the auditors of the Service Recipient to enable such auditors to attest to and report on the assessment of internal control over financial reporting of the management of the Service Recipient. The Service Provider shall cooperate and assist the Service Recipient's auditors in performing any process walkthroughs and process testing that such auditor may request of the significant processes; and
        (f)    in the event that Sections 6.3(a)-(e) hereof do not reasonably enable the Service Recipient to comply with its obligations under SOX 404 and to enable the Service Recipient's registered public accounting firm to attest to and report on the assessment by the management of the Service Recipient in accordance with SOX 404 and Accounting Standard No. 2, then upon reasonable notice, the Service Recipient shall be permitted to conduct, at its own expense, an independent audit of the Service Provider's controls with respect to the Services solely to the extent necessary to accomplish such purpose or purposes.
        7.1
    Term.
    This Agreement shall commence on the Distribution Date and unless terminated earlier in accordance with this Article VII, will terminate on the earlier to occur of (a) the second anniversary of the Distribution Date and (b) the date on which the terms of all the Schedules have expired or been terminated.
        7.2
    Early Termination of Schedules.
    In the event that pursuant to Section 2.7, a Service Provider reduces or suspends the provision of any Service due to a Force Majeure Event and such reduction or suspension continues for 15 days, the other Party may immediately terminate the applicable Schedule, upon written notice and without any reimbursement obligation.
        7.3
    Breach of Agreement.
    Subject to Article V, if either Party shall cause or suffer to exist any material breach of any of its obligations under this Agreement, including any failure to make payments when due, and that Party does not cure such default in all material respects within 30 days after receiving written notice thereof from the non-breaching Party, the non-breaching Party may terminate each affected Schedule, including the provision of Services pursuant thereto, immediately by providing written notice of termination.
        7.4
    Sums Due.
    (a) In the event of a termination (including any termination pursuant to Section 7.2) or expiration of this Agreement (or Services under one or more Schedules), AXP shall be entitled to the payment or reimbursement of, and Ameriprise shall, or shall cause its applicable Affiliates to, pay and reimburse AXP, on the date of such termination or expiration (i) all amounts due to AXP or any AXP Service Provider under this Agreement and (ii) all amounts accrued in connection with the provision of AXP Services through the date of such termination or expiration that are not yet due and payable to AXP or any AXP Service Provider under this Agreement, as if such amounts were due and payable on the date of such termination or expiration.
        (b)   In the event of a termination (including any termination pursuant to Section 7.2) or expiration of this Agreement (or Services under one or more Schedules), Ameriprise shall be entitled to the payment or reimbursement of, and AXP shall, or shall cause its applicable Affiliates to, pay and reimburse Ameriprise, on the date of such termination or expiration (i) all amounts due to Ameriprise or any Ameriprise Service Provider under this Agreement and (ii) all amounts accrued in connection with the provision of the Ameriprise Services through the date of such termination or expiration that are not yet due and payable to Ameriprise or any Ameriprise Service Provider under this Agreement, as if such amounts were due and payable on the date of such termination or expiration.
        7.5
    Effect of Termination.
    Articles I, III, IV, VI and VIII and Sections 5.1(a)(i), 5.1(b), 5.2(a)(i), 5.2(b), 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, 5.10, 7.4 and this 7.5 shall survive any termination of this Agreement.
        8.1
    Notices.
    All notices, requests and other communications hereunder (except for routine communications contemplated by certain Schedules) must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given only if delivered personally or by facsimile transmission or mailed (first class postage prepaid) to the Parties at the following addresses or facsimile numbers:
        If to AXP, to:
American Express Company 200 Vesey Street New York, New York 10285-4905 Attn: Gilbert E. Ahye
        with a copy to:
American Express Company 200 Vesey Street New York, New York 10285-4905 Attn: General Counsel
        If to Ameriprise, to:
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 707 2 Avenue, South Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474 Attn: Walter Berman
nd
        with a copy to:
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 707 2 Avenue, South Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474 Attn: General Counsel
nd
All such notices, requests and other communications will (i) if delivered personally to the address as provided in this section, be deemed given upon delivery, (ii) if delivered by facsimile transmission to the facsimile number as provided in this section, be deemed given upon receipt and (iii) if delivered by mail in the manner described above to the address as provided in this section, be deemed given upon receipt (in each case regardless of whether such notice, request or other communication is received by any other Person to whom a copy of such notice, request or other communication is to be delivered pursuant to this section). Any party from time to time may change its address, facsimile number or other Information for the purpose of notices to that party by giving notice specifying such change to the other party.
        8.2
    Entire Agreement.
    This Agreement, together with all exhibits and Schedules hereto, the Separation and Distribution Agreement and the other Ancillary Agreements, constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter.
        8.3
    Waiver.
    Any term or condition of this Agreement may be waived at any time by the Party that is entitled to the benefit thereof, but no such waiver shall be effective unless set forth in a written instrument duly executed by or on behalf of the Party waiving such term or condition. No waiver by any Party of any term or condition of this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed or construed as a waiver of the same or any other term or condition of this Agreement on any future occasion. All remedies, either under this Agreement or by Law or otherwise afforded, will be cumulative and not alternative.
        8.4
    Amendment.
    This Agreement may be amended, supplemented, modified or superseded only by a written instrument signed by duly authorized signatories of the Parties.
        8.5
    Independent Contractors.
    In performing the Services hereunder, each Service Provider shall operate as and have the status of an independent contractor. No Service Provider's employees shall be considered employees or agents of the other Party, nor shall the employees of any party be eligible or entitled to any benefits, perquisites or privileges given or extended to any of the other Party's employees in connection with the provision of Services. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed to create a joint venture or partnership between the Parties. No Party shall have any power to control the activities and/or operations of the other Party. No Party shall have any power or authority to bind or commit any other Party.
        8.6
    No Third Party Beneficiary.
    The terms and provisions of this Agreement are intended solely for the benefit of each Party hereto and their respective Affiliates, successors or permitted assigns, and it is not the intention of the Parties to confer third party beneficiary rights upon any other Person.
        8.7
    No Assignment; Binding Effect.
    Neither this Agreement nor any right, interest or obligation hereunder may be assigned by any Party hereto without the prior written consent of the other Party hereto and any attempt to do so will be void, except that each Party hereto may assign any or all of its rights, interests and obligations hereunder to an Affiliate, provided, that, any such Affiliate agrees in writing to be bound by all of the terms, conditions and provisions contained herein. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement is binding upon, inures to the benefit of and is enforceable by the Parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
        8.8
    Headings.
    The headings used in this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and do not define or limit the provisions hereof.
        8.9
    Submission to Jurisdiction; Waivers.
    Subject to the prior exhaustion of the escalation procedures set forth in Section 5.10 and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, each Party hereto (i) agrees that any claim, action or proceeding by such party seeking any relief whatsoever arising out of, relating to or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought only in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York or any New York State court, in each case, located in the Borough of Manhattan and not in any other State or Federal court in the United States of America or any court in any other country, (ii) agrees to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts located in the Borough of Manhattan for purposes of all legal proceedings arising out of, or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, (iii) waives and agrees not to assert any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such action brought in such a court or any claim that any such action brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum, (iv) agrees that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in the manner provided in Section 8.1 or any other manner as may be permitted by Law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof and (v) agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by applicable Law.
        8.10
    Severability.
    If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under any present or future Law, the remaining provisions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect and will not be affected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance herefrom.
        8.11
    Governing Law.
    This Agreement and any dispute arising out of, in connection with or relating to this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to the conflicts of laws principles thereof.
        8.12
    Counterparts.
    This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
        8.13
    Order of Precedence.
    In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between this Agreement and a Schedule or an attachment or exhibit thereto, the Schedule (or the attachment or exhibit thereto) shall prevail.
        8.14
    Ownership of and License to Data.
    (a) It is acknowledged and agreed that (i) AXP retains all right, title and interest in and to all AXP Data and nothing herein shall create or vest in Ameriprise any right, title or interest in or to the AXP Data and (ii) Ameriprise retains all right, title and interest in and to all Ameriprise Data and nothing herein shall create or vest in AXP any right, title or interest in or to the Ameriprise Data: and
        (b)   AXP hereby grants to Ameriprise a non-exclusive, royalty free, fully paid-up, non-transferable, worldwide license to use AXP Data solely (i) to provide the Ameriprise Services and (ii) to comply with Ameriprise's obligations under applicable Law with respect to such AXP Data.
        (c)   Ameriprise hereby grants to AXP a non-exclusive, royalty free, fully paid-up, non-transferable, worldwide license to use Ameriprise Data solely (i) to provide the AXP Services and (ii) to comply with AXP's obligations under applicable Law with respect to such Ameriprise Data.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
QuickLinks
TRANSITION SERVICES AGREEMENT
RECITALS
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE II TRANSITION SERVICES
ARTICLE III FEES AND EXPENSES
ARTICLE IV CONFIDENTIALITY
ARTICLE V NO WARRANTY; LIMITATION OF LIABILITY; INDEMNIFICATION; ESCALATION
ARTICLE VI INTERNAL CONTROLS
ARTICLE VII TERM; TERMINATION
ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 10.2
        This TAX ALLOCATION AGREEMENT, dated as of this 30 day of September, 2005 (this ""), is between American Express Company, a New York corporation (""), and Ameriprise Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("," and together with AXP, each a "Party" and collectively, the ""). AXP has its executive office at American Express Tower, 3 World Financial Center, 200 Vesey Street, New York, New York 10285. Ameriprise has an executive office at 707 2nd Avenue, South, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474.
th
Agreement
AXP
Ameriprise
Parties
        WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of AXP has determined that it is in the best interests of AXP to separate the Ameriprise Business (as defined below) and the AXP Business (as defined below) into two independent public companies, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Separation Agreement (as defined below), in order to resolve issues related to the allocation of capital and management resources between the Ameriprise Business and the AXP Business, and to give Ameriprise greater flexibility to manage, invest in, and expand the Ameriprise Business while ensuring that AXP can focus its time and resources on the development of the AXP Business;
        WHEREAS, in order to effectuate the foregoing, AXP and Ameriprise have entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of August 24, 2005, (the ""), pursuant to which and subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, the Ameriprise Business shall be separated from the AXP Business and the Ameriprise Common Stock (as defined below) shall be distributed on a pro rata basis to AXP shareholders;
Separation Agreement
        WHEREAS, for U.S. federal income Tax purposes, from January 13, 1984, through the Distribution Date (defined below) of the Distribution (defined below), income of certain present and former members of the Ameriprise Group (defined below) has been or will be included in AXP Consolidated Returns (defined below) and, from January 1, 1990, through the Distribution Date, income of certain life insurance companies subject to tax under section 801 of the Code (defined below), that are or were part of the Ameriprise Group, has been or will be included in AXP Consolidated Returns;
        WHEREAS, certain Ameriprise Combined Group (defined below) members have filed or will file Combined Returns (defined below) covering U.S. state and local income Taxes with AXP Combined Groups (defined below) as part of their respective Total Combined Groups (defined below);
        WHEREAS, Ameriprise and other members of the Ameriprise Group will cease to be members of the AXP Group for U.S. federal income Tax purposes after the Distribution Date, and Ameriprise and other members of Ameriprise Combined Groups will cease to be members of their respective Total Combined Groups for U.S. state and local income Tax purposes after the Distribution Date;
        WHEREAS, the failure of the Distribution to have a Tax-Free Status (defined below) or certain actions taken with respect to Ameriprise Capital Stock (defined below) could subject AXP and its shareholders to additional Tax costs in connection with the Distribution; and
        WHEREAS, AXP and Ameriprise desire in this Agreement to (i) set forth Tax allocation principles for Affiliation Years for U.S. federal income Tax purposes and Combined Years for U.S. state and local income Tax purposes, which, except to the extent provided herein, will supersede all prior policies and procedures governing the allocation of Taxes, (ii) define the effects upon the settlement and allocation of certain Tax liabilities and Tax benefits of transactions or developments that occur during taxable years commencing after the Distribution Date, (iii) set forth the responsibility for their respective stand-alone income and other Tax liabilities, and (iv) allocate liability for certain Tax costs that may be incurred in connection with the Distribution.
        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the promises and covenants set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, AXP and Ameriprise hereby agree as follows:
        SECTION 1.01.    .    For all purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 2.01.
2004 Excess AXP Group Benefits
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 2.01.
2004 Tax Liability
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 2.01.
2004 Tax Year
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 2.02.
2005 Excess AXP Group Benefits
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 2.02.
2005 Tax Liability
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 2.02.
2005 Tax Year
        "" shall mean the term as defined under "Excess AXP Group Benefits."
Additional Excess Items
        "" shall mean with respect to any Affiliation Year(s) the U.S. federal income Tax liability of the Ameriprise Group, as determined by AXP in good faith, applying the Highest Federal Tax Rate, computed as if the Ameriprise Group (with Ameriprise as the common parent) filed a consolidated U.S. federal income Tax Return separately from the AXP Group (""), and applying such U.S. Tax laws and regulations as would have been applicable to the Ameriprise Group if it had so filed separately, but not taking into account any items that are predicated on base amounts determined on a consolidated basis such as research Credits, subject to the following:
Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability
Ameriprise Consolidated Return
        (i)    the Ameriprise Group shall be treated as bound by all accounting methods, elections and other determinations adopted or made by AXP for the AXP Group for all Affiliation Years, including, but not limited to, determinations made in respect of carrybacks and carryovers;
        (ii)   the Ameriprise Group shall be permitted to reduce its Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability (but not below zero) to the extent that AXP determines that the AXP Group is able to reduce its U.S. federal income Tax liability in the AXP Consolidated Return for such Affiliation Year by utilizing items of deduction, loss, or Credit of the Ameriprise Group which AXP determines the Ameriprise Group would have been unable to utilize if it had filed an Ameriprise Consolidated Return (""); , that if there are any limitations in the ability of the AXP Group to utilize items in the same category as such Excess Items in their entirety for such year, the Ameriprise Group shall be limited in the reduction of its Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability to its share of such Excess Items, as determined by AXP, on a Proportionate Basis; , , that if, pursuant to the above provisions, an Excess Item is not usable, in whole or in part, by the AXP Group in one Affiliation Year, it may, as determined by AXP in good faith pursuant to Section 8.03 hereof, be carried over or carried back as an Excess Item to any other Affiliation Year subject to the same limitations as above; and
Excess Items
provided
provided
further
        (iii)  the Ameriprise Group shall take into account the items of Ameriprise Group income, gain, loss, deduction or Credit attributable to intercompany items, excess loss accounts, dual consolidated losses and other items that AXP determines are required to be restored, recaptured or otherwise triggered as a result of the Distribution or related transactions.
        "" shall mean, with respect to any Affiliation Year, any change in actual Tax liability from the Tax liability reported on an AXP Consolidated Return, including changes attributable to amended Tax Returns, deficiencies asserted by a Taxing authority, overpayments, and claims for refund, and changes required by application of the Code and Treasury Regulations including, but not limited to, changes required pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-47 (setting forth consolidated return rules applicable to life-non-life groups), and Taxing authority audits, examinations, proceedings or litigation resulting from any of the foregoing events (collectively, ""). Adjustment shall mean with respect of any Combined Year in which an Ameriprise Combined Group files a Combined Return with an AXP Combined Group as part of a Total Combined Group, any change in the actual Tax liability of the applicable Total Combined Group, including changes attributable to Adjustment Events.
Adjustment
Adjustment Events
        "" shall mean any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the person in question. For this purpose, "control" shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and the policies of a person, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. "" shall mean an Affiliate of Ameriprise. "" shall mean an Affiliate of AXP other than Ameriprise and Ameriprise Affiliates.
Affiliate
Ameriprise Affiliate
AXP Affiliate
        "" shall mean each taxable year, or portion thereof, with respect to which any member of the Ameriprise Group joined or will join the AXP Group in the filing of an AXP Consolidated Return.
Affiliation Year
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 2.03.
Ameriprise AMT Liability
        "" means the business and operations conducted by the Ameriprise Group from time to time, whether prior to, at or after the Effective Time, including the business and operations conducted by the Ameriprise Group, as more fully described in the Information Statement; provided that "Ameriprise Business" shall not include AMEX Assurance.
Ameriprise Business
        "" shall mean all classes or series of stock of Ameriprise and all options, warrants, derivatives, rights to acquire stock, and other interests and instruments taken into account for purposes of determining a Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest in Ameriprise.
Ameriprise Capital Stock
        "" shall mean an affiliated group of corporations (as constituted from time to time), consisting of Ameriprise and/or its directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries, that AXP determines will join in filing a Combined Return with an AXP Combined Group.
Ameriprise Combined Group
        "" shall mean the term as defined under "Distribution."
Ameriprise Common Stock
        "" shall mean the affiliated group of corporations (as constituted from time to time), consisting of Ameriprise and/or its directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries, that AXP determines will join in filing an AXP Consolidated Return.
Ameriprise Group
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 3.02.
Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 9.01.
Ameriprise Issues
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 2.03.
Ameriprise Separate AMT
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 9.03.
Ameriprise Unsettled Issues
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 2.03.
AMT
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 9.03.
Article IX Taxes
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 2.03.
AXP AMT Liability
        "" means all businesses and operations of the AXP Group, other than the Ameriprise Business.
AXP Business
        "" shall mean an affiliated group of corporations (as constituted from time to time) owned directly or indirectly by AXP that AXP determines will join in filing a Combined Return excluding members of an Ameriprise Combined Group.
AXP Combined Group
        "" shall mean a consolidated U.S. federal income Tax Return filed by AXP on behalf of the AXP Group.
AXP Consolidated Return
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 9.04.
AXP Excess Issue
        "" shall mean the affiliated group of corporations (as constituted from time to time), of which AXP is the common parent, that AXP determines will join in filing an AXP Consolidated Return.
AXP Group
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 9.01.
AXP Issues
        "", "" and "" shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Employee Benefits Agreement by and between AXP and Ameriprise dated as of September 30, 2005.
AXP LOIs
AXP Options
AXP Restricted Stock
        "" shall mean AXP LOIs, AXP Options and/or AXP Restricted Stock.
AXP Stock-Based Awards
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 5.04.
Board Certificate
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 6.01.
Closing Agreement
        "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any references herein to sections of the Code or Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder shall include any successor provisions thereto.
Code
        "" shall mean a combined or unitary U.S. state or local income, franchise, or gross receipts Tax Return.
Combined Return
        "" shall mean a U.S. state or locality requiring or permitting the filing of a Combined Return.
Combined State
        "" shall mean a taxable year (or portion thereof) in which an AXP Combined Group files a Combined Return with an Ameriprise Combined Group.
Combined Year
        "" shall mean all of the credits against U.S. federal income Tax or, as applicable, against U.S. state or local Tax. Credits shall include, but not be limited to, foreign Tax credits, research credits, low-income housing credits, investment Tax credits and targeted job credits.
Credits
        "" shall mean the distribution on a
Distribution
pro rata
basis to holders of issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.20 per share, of AXP, other than shares of AXP common stock held in the treasury of AXP, of all of the issued and outstanding shares of Ameriprise common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), beneficially owned by AXP, by means of a dividend of such Ameriprise Common Stock to such shareholders.
Ameriprise Common Stock
        "" shall mean the date on which the Distribution shall be effected, such date to be determined by, or under the authority of, the Board of Directors of AXP in its sole and absolute discretion.
Distribution Date
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 6.01.
Dual Consolidated Loss
        "" means the time at which the Distribution occurs on the Distribution Date.
Effective Time
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 3.05.
Estimated State Taxes
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 9.03.
Evaluation
        "" shall mean the amount by which AXP determines that AXP was able to reduce its U.S. federal income Tax liability in the AXP Consolidated Return for an Affiliation Year by use of Excess Items (as defined above under "Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability") which would reduce the Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability for such year, if zero, below zero (""). Use of Additional Excess Items shall otherwise be subject to the same limitations and other provisions applicable to the use of Excess Items, as determined by AXP in good faith.
Excess AXP Group Benefits
Additional Excess Items
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 14.02.
Exercised AXP Options
        "" shall mean a "50-percent or greater interest" for purposes of Sections 355(d) and (e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest
        "" shall mean a final settlement with a Taxing authority that is binding on all Parties or, if applicable, a final judicial decision upon the expiration of the time for the decision to be appealed, with respect to the items in question.
Final Determination
        "" shall mean any item of income, gain, loss or deduction or any asset or liability relevant to the computation of taxable income from sources without the United States and any item of Credit described in Section 901 of the Code (without regard to the limitation of Section 904 of the Code).
Foreign Attribute
        "" shall mean the business of Ameriprise so designated, as described in the request for rulings from the IRS in respect of the Distribution and related matters, dated February 27, 2005, as supplemented from time to time.
Fund Management Business
        "" for the taxable year in question shall mean the sum of (i) the Highest Federal Tax Rate, and (ii) in the case of a corporation, the average, weighted by jurisdiction, of the highest U.S. state and local income, franchise, and gross receipts Tax rates that would be applicable to such a corporation (net of any U.S. federal income Tax benefit), or in the case of a Person other than a corporation, the highest U.S. state and local income Tax rates (net of any U.S. federal income Tax benefit) that would be applicable to such Person or the beneficial owner(s) of such Person.
Highest Combined Tax Rate
        "" for the taxable year in question shall mean (i) in the case of a corporation, the highest U.S. federal income Tax rate applicable to a corporation, or (ii) in the case of a Person other than a corporation, the highest U.S. federal income Tax rate that would be applicable to such Person or the beneficial owner(s) of such Person.
Highest Federal Tax Rate
        "" shall mean the amount of the Tax savings realized by the applicable group, as determined by AXP in good faith. Such amount shall be determined by comparing (i) the actual U.S. federal income Tax liability and the corresponding U.S. state and local income Tax liability (net of any federal Tax benefit) of the applicable group for the taxable year in question without giving effect to the items in question with (ii) the actual U.S. federal income Tax liability and the corresponding U.S. state and local Tax liability (net of any federal Tax benefit) of the applicable group for such year after giving full effect to such items. An Income Tax Benefit shall be deemed to be realized at the time that the applicable group receives a refund or credit for refund from the relevant Taxing authority.
Income Tax Benefit
        "" shall mean the amount of additional Tax incurred by the applicable group, as determined by AXP in good faith. Such amount shall be determined by comparing (i) the actual U.S. federal income Tax and the corresponding U.S. state and local Tax liability (net of any U.S. federal income Tax benefit) of the applicable group for the taxable year in question after giving full effect to the items in question with (ii) the actual U.S. federal income Tax and the corresponding U.S. state and local Tax liability (net of any U.S. federal income Tax benefit) of the applicable group without giving effect to such items. Unless otherwise provided herein, an Income Tax Detriment shall be deemed to be incurred at such time as payment is made to the relevant Taxing authority upon a Final
Income Tax Detriment
Determination of items in questions. In computing the Tax liability of the AXP Group for purposes of clause (i) of the second sentence of this definition or clause (ii) of the second sentence of the definition of "Income Tax Benefit" above, increases or decreases in the U.S. federal, state or local income Tax liability of the AXP Group attributable to the effect on AXP's (or any AXP subsidiary's) basis in the stock of any member of the Ameriprise Group will not be taken into account.
        "" shall mean the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 9.04.
IRS Agreement
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 2.03.
Minimum Tax Credit
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 9.04.
New AXP Issues
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 3.03.
NOLs
        "" shall mean an individual or a partnership, corporation, limited liability company, association, joint stock company, trust, joint venture, unincorporated organization, or other entity, without regard to whether such entity is treated as disregarded for U.S. federal income Tax purposes.
Person
        "" shall mean a taxable period after the Distribution Date during which Ameriprise and its subsidiaries do not join the AXP Group in the filing of an AXP Consolidated Return.
Post-Affiliation Year
        "" shall mean a taxable period after the Distribution Date during which Ameriprise and its subsidiaries do not join a Total Combined Group in the filing of a Combined Return with an AXP Combined Group.
Post-Combined Year
        "" shall mean, with respect to an item or items attributable to a particular member or members of the Ameriprise Group, the determination of the portion of such items based on the total value of such items over the total value of all items in the same category for the entire AXP Group for the same Affiliation Year of the AXP Group, subject to any appropriate Adjustments thereto, as determined by AXP in good faith.
Proportionate Basis
        "" shall mean a transaction or series of transactions (or any agreement, understanding or arrangement, within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, to enter into a transaction or series of transactions), as a result of which Ameriprise would merge or consolidate with any other Person or as a result of which any Person or any group of Persons would (directly or indirectly) acquire, or have the right to acquire through the acquisition of an option or otherwise, from Ameriprise and/or one or more holders of Ameriprise Capital Stock, an amount of Ameriprise Capital Stock that would, when combined with any other changes in ownership of Ameriprise Capital Stock pertinent for purposes of Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, comprise 40% or more of (A) the value of all outstanding Ameriprise Capital Stock as of the date of such transaction, or in the case of a series of transactions, the date of the last transaction of such series, or (B) the total combined voting power of all outstanding Ameriprise Capital Stock as of the date of such transaction, or in the case of a series of transactions, the date of the last transaction of such series. For purposes of determining whether a transaction constitutes an indirect acquisition for purposes of the first sentence of this definition, any recapitalization resulting in a shift of voting power or any redemption of shares of stock shall be treated as an indirect acquisition of shares of stock by the non-exchanging shareholders. This definition and the application thereof is intended to monitor compliance with Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder and shall be interpreted accordingly by AXP in good faith.
Proposed Acquisition Transaction
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 9.02.
RAR
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 6.02.
Recapture Taxes
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 5.01.
Representation Letters
        "" shall mean claims for refund attributable to items described in and filed pursuant to Section 7.02 of this Agreement.
Section 7.02 Claims
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 14.02.
SFAS Exercised AXP Options
        "" or "" shall mean any tax, assessment, duty, fee or other charge imposed or collected by any government or political subdivision thereof or any taxing authority thereunder, including but not limited to, any income, gross income, gross receipts, profits, capital stock, franchise, withholding, payroll, social security, premium, guarantee fund, workers compensation, unemployment, disability, property,
Tax
Taxes
ad valorem
, stamp, excise, severance, occupation, service, sales, use, license, lease, transfer, import, export, value added, minimum, alternative minimum, estimated or other tax (including any assessment, duty, fee or other charge in the nature of or in lieu of any such tax), and any interest, penalties, additions to tax, or additional amounts in respect of the foregoing.
        "" shall mean a United States law or accounting firm of national standing in the field of taxation selected by AXP.
Tax Advisor
        "" shall mean the qualification of the Distribution and related transactions as a distribution in which no gain or loss is recognized, and no amount is includible in income, for U.S. federal income Tax purposes (other than intercompany items, excess loss accounts or other items required to be taken into account pursuant to the Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 1502 of the Code).
Tax-Free Status
        "" shall mean (i) all U.S. federal, state and local Taxes payable pursuant to any Final Determination or otherwise; (ii) all professional fees, and court costs incurred in connection with such Taxes; and (iii) all costs, expenses and damages associated with stockholder litigation or controversies, including but not limited to, any amount paid by AXP or any AXP Affiliate in respect of the liability of shareholders, whether paid to shareholders, the IRS, any other Taxing authority, or any other person or entity, in each case, arising from the Distribution and related transactions failing to have Tax-Free Status in any manner.
Tax-Related Losses
        "" shall mean any Tax return (including any amended return), report, information return, election, notice or other document filed or to be filed with a Taxing authority, including any schedules or related or supporting information.
Tax Return
        "" shall mean, with respect to any U.S. jurisdiction that requires or permits the filing of a Combined Return, the affiliated group of corporations (as constituted from time to time), that AXP determines will join in the filing of such Combined Return, that includes an AXP Combined Group and an Ameriprise Combined Group.
Total Combined Group
        "" shall mean the term as defined in Section 2.03.
TPIs
        "" shall mean U.S. Treasury regulations issued under the Code.
Treasury Regulations
        "" shall mean any transaction or series of transactions that is not a Proposed Acquisition Transaction but would be a Proposed Acquisition Transaction if the percentage reflected in the definition of Proposed Acquisition Transaction were 25% instead of 40%.
Twenty Five Percent Proposed Acquisition Transaction
        "" shall mean an unqualified "will" opinion of a law firm of nationally recognized standing in the field of taxation, which opinion is acceptable to AXP and on which AXP may rely to confirm that a transaction will not affect the Tax-Free Status, including confirmation that may be provided for purposes of avoiding any applicable penalties or additions to Tax. Any such opinion shall assume that the Distribution and related transactions would have qualified for Tax-Free Status had the transaction in question not occurred.
Unqualified Tax Opinion
        "" shall mean the period from and including the date on which an AXP Stock-Based Award is granted, to and including the date on which such award is first exercisable (in the case of AXP Options) or vests, whichever occurs first. For these purposes, an AXP Stock-Based Award will be deemed to be vested when it is considered vested in accordance with the applicable retirement practice and policies of AXP.
Vesting Period
        "" shall mean the ratio of the number of days during a Vesting Period that an entity was a direct employer of record of a holder of an AXP Stock-Based Award over the total number of days in the Vesting Period; provided, however, that no more than one entity will be deemed to be a direct employer of a holder on any given day.
Vesting Ratio
        SECTION 1.02.    .    (a) Words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and words of one gender shall include the other gender, in each case, as the context requires, (b) the term "hereof," "herein," "hereunder," and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and any references to Article, Section, paragraph, exhibit and schedule are references to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs, exhibits and schedules to this Agreement unless otherwise specified, (c) the word "including" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall mean "including, without limitation," unless otherwise specified and (d) any reference to any federal, state, local or non-U.S. statute or law shall be deemed to also refer to all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the context otherwise requires.
General Interpretive Principles
        SECTION 1.03.    .    Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, this Agreement shall supersede in all respects any and all policies and procedures governing the allocation of Tax liability among the members of the AXP Group or the Total Combined Groups. Except as otherwise specifically provided hereunder, all determinations and actions required under this Agreement will be taken by AXP and shall be made in good faith taking into account, among other factors, the goal of reducing the aggregate Taxes of the Parties. It is the intention of the Parties that this Agreement shall be administered in a manner so that the allocation of income, deduction, loss or Credit between the Parties will produce Tax consequences for the Parties, on a current, carryback and carryover basis, that are consistent with those that are required by the Code and Treasury Regulations.
Applicable Standards
        SECTION 2.01.    .    (a) 
Pre-2005 Taxable Years
Ameriprise and AXP Tax Liabilities
. Ameriprise shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold AXP and the AXP Affiliates harmless against, the U.S. federal income Tax liability of the Ameriprise Group for all taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2004, including the "2004 Tax Liability" (defined below). Ameriprise shall be liable for and pay AXP the Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability for each such Affiliation Year. AXP shall pay Ameriprise, but Ameriprise shall remain liable for, Excess AXP Group Benefits, if any, for any such year if the Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability for such year is zero. The "" is the Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability for the taxable year ending on December 31, 2004 ("").
2004 Tax Liability
2004 Taxable Year
        (b)    
2004 Tax Liability
.    On or after the day AXP files the AXP Consolidated Return for the 2004 Taxable Year, AXP shall determine the amount of the 2004 Tax Liability or any Excess AXP Group Benefits for such year (""). Ameriprise shall pay to AXP or AXP shall pay to Ameriprise an amount equal to the difference between (i) the 2004 Tax Liability and (ii) the sum of any payments previously made by Ameriprise to AXP with respect to the 2004 Tax Liability, reduced (to and below zero) by the sum of any payments previously made or to be made by AXP to Ameriprise in respect of any 2004 Excess AXP Group Benefits. Payment by Ameriprise is due within five (5) business days after billing by AXP. Payment by AXP is due within thirty (30) business days of filing the AXP Consolidated Return for the 2004 Taxable Year.
2004 Excess AXP Group Benefits
        SECTION 2.02.
    
    (a) 
2005 Taxable Year.
Ameriprise and AXP Tax Liabilities.
Ameriprise shall be responsible and pay AXP for, and shall indemnify and hold AXP and the AXP Affiliates harmless against, the "2005 Tax Liability" (as defined below), which shall include, but not be limited to, all liabilities arising from the triggering of intercompany and other items as described in clause (iii) of the definition above of "Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability." Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Ameriprise shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold AXP and the AXP Affiliates harmless against, any Tax liabilities incurred in connection with the sale of AMEX Assurance Company including, but not limited to, any such liabilities arising from the triggering of any intercompany items relating to such sale. AXP agrees to indemnify, and hold Ameriprise and the Ameriprise Affiliates harmless against, U.S. federal income tax liabilities in respect of members of the AXP Group (other than members of the Ameriprise Group) under Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-6. The "" is the Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability for the taxable year beginning on January 1, 2005 and ending on and including the Distribution Date (the ""). AXP shall pay Ameriprise but Ameriprise shall remain liable for the Excess AXP Group Benefits, if any, for the taxable year of the AXP Group ending on December 31, 2005 if the Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability is zero under the preceding sentence (""). In determining the 2005 Tax Liability or 2005 Excess AXP Group Benefits, if applicable, Ameriprise will be credited with any losses or reduction in gain attributable to the sale of its interest in American Express International Deposit Company, a Cayman Islands company, to AXP, but only to the extent AXP determines in good faith that such losses or reduction in gain (i) reduce the Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability or result in Excess AXP Group Benefits for the appropriate periods, and (ii) exceed $15.7 million.
2005 Tax Liability
2005 Taxable Year
2005 Excess AXP Group Benefits
        (b)
    Estimated Payments, Etc.
    From and after the date of this Agreement, Ameriprise shall pay to AXP no later than the day before each due date for the payment of quarterly estimated U.S. federal income Taxes for the taxable year of the AXP Group ending on December 31, 2005 and the payment due on March 15, 2006, as determined in good faith by AXP, the difference, if any, between (A) the 2005 Tax Liability due, determined in good faith by AXP, based on the method for making estimated payments elected by AXP pursuant to Section 6655 of the Code, and (B) the sum of any payments previously made by Ameriprise to AXP with respect to the 2005 Tax Liability.
        (c)
    Payment Upon Filing Return.
    On or after the day that AXP files the AXP Consolidated Return for the taxable year ending on December 31, 2005, AXP shall determine the amount of the 2005 Tax Liability or any 2005 Excess AXP Group Benefits. Ameriprise shall pay to AXP or AXP shall pay to Ameriprise, as the case may be, the difference between (i) the 2005 Tax Liability and (ii) (A) the sum of the amounts previously paid by Ameriprise to AXP with respect to the 2005 Tax Liability, reduced (to and below zero) by (B) the sum of any payments previously made or to be made by AXP to Ameriprise in respect of any Excess AXP Group Benefits. Payment by Ameriprise is due within five (5) business days after billing by AXP. Payment by AXP is due within thirty (30) business days of filing the AXP Consolidated Return for the taxable year ending on December 31, 2005.
        (d)
    Settling Tax Payable Accounts.
    On or before the Distribution Date, Ameriprise and AXP shall cooperate to settle all Tax payable accounts for all Affiliation Years and all Combined Years, in accordance with AXP's direction, based on the most accurate and complete information then available.
        (e)
    Assignment of Taxable Items.
    AXP shall determine the amounts of income, gain, loss, deduction, and Credit of the Ameriprise Group for the 2005 Taxable Year which are properly includable in the AXP Consolidated Return for the taxable year of the AXP Group ending on December 31, 2005. For all relevant purposes of this Agreement, the members of the Ameriprise Group and each Ameriprise Combined Group shall cease to be members of the AXP Group and their respective Total Combined Groups, as of the end of the Distribution Date, and Ameriprise shall cause the books of account of the members of the Ameriprise Group and the Ameriprise Combined Groups to be closed for accounting and Tax purposes as of the end of the Distribution Date in accordance with
AXP's direction. In determining consolidated taxable income for the taxable period that ends on the Distribution Date, the income and other items of the Ameriprise Group shall be determined by AXP in good faith in accordance with Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-76(b)(1), -76(b)(2)(i) and -76(b)(2)(iv) and no election shall be made under 1.1502-76(b)(2)(ii)(D) to ratably allocate items. However, an allocation shall be made in good faith by AXP under Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-76(b)(2)(iii) if such allocation is determined by AXP in good faith to be necessary to appropriately allocate income in the event that the Distribution Date occurs on any date other than the last or first day of any month. Pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-76(b)(2)(vi), any item of a passthrough entity that is owned by a member of the Ameriprise Group shall be allocated as if such member sold its entire interest in the entity immediately before the Distribution. In the event that a member or members of the Ameriprise Group would be treated as owning an interest of less than 50% in the aggregate in such passthrough entity, then pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.706-1(c)(2)(ii), each such member's share of any distributive items shall be the amount determined by taking into account the pro rata part of such items that such member would have included in taxable income had such member remained a partner or owner of the passthrough entity until the end of the partnership taxable year based on the portion of the partnership taxable year that has elapsed through the Distribution Date or upon such other reasonable method that the Parties may agree. All of the foregoing determinations to be made shall be made in good faith by AXP. Ameriprise and Ameriprise Affiliates shall file their respective Tax Returns for the taxable period beginning on the first day after the Distribution Date consistently with such determinations.
        (f)
    Determining Foreign Attributes.
    Without limiting the foregoing, AXP shall also determine the portion of any Foreign Attribute for the Ameriprise Group that is allocable to the taxable year ending December 31, 2005, provided, that such portion to be allocated will not include any amount described in Section 951(a) of the Code (relating to inclusions in income of controlled foreign corporation earnings) or any amount described in Section 1293(a) of the Code (relating to inclusions in income of qualified electing fund earnings), or any indirect foreign Tax Credit under Sections 960 and 1293(f) of the Code for foreign income Taxes deemed paid with respect to either of these items, all as determined by AXP in good faith; and , , that, without the prior written consent of AXP, Ameriprise and its subsidiaries shall not elect to recapture an amount of taxable income from sources without the U.S. of any member of the Ameriprise Group greater than the minimum amount required by Section 904(f)(1) of the Code for any Affiliation Year. Ameriprise shall provide AXP with all information it requests to make any determination under this subsection (f). AXP will likewise share all information with Ameriprise necessary for Ameriprise to determine its share of the consolidated foreign Tax Credits for the taxable year ending December 31, 2005 and all prior taxable years.
provided
further
        SECTION 2.03.
    
    (a) 
U.S. Federal Alternative Minimum Tax.
Ameriprise Tax Liability.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, if, for any Affiliation Year, the AXP Group is liable for alternative minimum Tax for U.S. federal income Tax purposes (or any similar U.S. federal Tax) ("") and the Ameriprise Group would be liable for AMT if it filed a Tax Return as a separate consolidated group (""), Ameriprise shall pay to AXP an amount (the "") determined by AXP equal to the product of the AMT liability for the AXP Group (the "") and a fraction (the "") (x) the numerator of which is the sum of the Tax preference items and adjustments of the Ameriprise Group relevant for purposes of the computation of AMT (the "") for such Affiliation Year and (y) the denominator of which is the sum of the TPIs of all members of the AXP Group for such Affiliation Year. The Ameriprise AMT Liability for such Affiliation Year shall not exceed the amount of the Ameriprise Separate AMT for such Affiliation Year.
AMT
Ameriprise Separate AMT
Ameriprise AMT Liability
AXP AMT Liability
Fraction
TPIs
        (b)
    Minimum Tax Credits.
    If for any Affiliation Year Ameriprise has paid to AXP the Ameriprise AMT Liability, AXP shall pay to Ameriprise its proportionate share (determined below) of the minimum Tax credit for U.S. federal income Tax purposes (the "") arising
Minimum Tax Credit
from such Affiliation Year which is actually utilized by the AXP Group in a subsequent Affiliation Year. Ameriprise's proportionate share of such credit for any Affiliation Year shall be equal to the product of such credit and the Fraction (defined in subsection (a) above). In no event shall Ameriprise be paid amounts in the aggregate in respect of such credit in excess of the corresponding Ameriprise AMT Liability.
        SECTION 3.01.
    
    If any member of an AXP Combined Group and any member of an Ameriprise Combined Group are required to file, or if AXP elects that any member of an AXP Combined Group and any member of an Ameriprise Combined Group shall file a Combined Return for any taxable years, or where any U.S. state or local Taxing authority successfully asserts such a combined filing requirement, the allocation and settlement of amounts due between the Parties shall be governed by this Article III.
Returns Covered.
        SECTION 3.02.
    
    For each taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2004, AXP shall determine in good faith each Ameriprise Combined Group's respective share, as determined below, of the total U.S. state and local Tax liability in each such Combined State. The Ameriprise Combined Group's share of such total tax liability ("") will be based on the aggregate apportionment percentage of all members of the Ameriprise Combined Group, determined with reference only to those companies that are subject to such state's taxing jurisdiction. The Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability will include any minimum or similar Taxes for members of each Ameriprise Combined Group that may be required by the relevant state or locality. In addition, in determining the Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability for Minnesota and Nebraska, respectively, AXP will, in good faith, directly reduce the Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability in Minnesota for the employer transit pass Credit generated by members of the Ameriprise Combined Group and the Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability in Nebraska for the employment Tax Credit generated by members of the Ameriprise Combined Group, but only if and to the extent such Credit is used to reduce the Tax liability of the Total Combined Group in Minnesota or Nebraska, as the case may be, for that year. Ameriprise shall be responsible for and pay to AXP, and shall indemnify AXP and the AXP Affiliates from and against, the Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability for each Combined Return for all taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2004.
Pre-2005 Taxable Years.
Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability
        SECTION 3.03.
    
    Consistent with the approach applied for operating units of Total Combined Groups, Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability will not be reduced by, nor will Ameriprise or any other Ameriprise Combined Group member receive any payment, credit or benefit for, U.S. state or local net operating losses (""), including any carryback or carryover NOLs, that any such member generates for U.S. state or local income Tax purposes on a stand-alone basis, whether or not they are used in a Combined Return (except insofar as such NOLs may reduce the Ameriprise Combined Group's share of the total U.S. state and local liability for a Total Combined Return).
Net Operating Losses.
NOLs
        SECTION 3.04.
    
    For the taxable year beginning on January 1, 2005, AXP shall determine in good faith the Ameriprise Combined Group's share of the total U.S. state and local Tax liability in each Combined State in the same manner as set forth in Sections 3.02 and 3.03 above, taking into account the apportionment percentages and other relevant items of each appropriate Ameriprise Combined Group through the Distribution Date. Ameriprise shall be responsible for and pay to AXP, and shall indemnify AXP and the AXP Affiliates from and against, the Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability for all Combined Returns for the taxable year beginning January 1, 2005.
2005 Taxable Year.
        SECTION 3.05.
    
    For each Combined State, AXP will determine in good faith the Ameriprise Combined Group's estimated Tax payments and extension payments (collectively, ""), will prescribe the information required to be provided by the Ameriprise
Estimated Taxes, Etc.
Estimated State Taxes
Combined Group to support AXP's preparation and filing of Combined Returns and payment of Estimated State Taxes, together with a schedule of due dates for providing of such information and paying its share of Estimated State Taxes, and Ameriprise will timely and accurately provide and pay the same to AXP. AXP will calculate in good faith the aggregate Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability for all Combined States for a Combined Year less a credit for aggregate Estimated State Taxes paid or determine the refund due to Ameriprise to the extent aggregate Estimated State Taxes paid by Ameriprise exceed the aggregate Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability. Payment by Ameriprise is due within five (5) business days after billing by AXP. Payment of a refund by AXP is due by November 30 of the year in which Combined State Tax Returns are filed.
        SECTION 3.06.
    
    (a) If an Adjustment occurs, the Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability for the year in question shall be recomputed by AXP in good faith, including all changes to apportionment percentages that result from such Adjustment. Ameriprise shall make payments to AXP for an increase in the Ameriprise Group Tax Liability or AXP shall make payments to Ameriprise for a decrease in the Ameriprise Group Tax Liability, including its allocable share of interest, penalties and additions to Tax and external costs. Payment in respect of such Adjustments by Ameriprise is due within five (5) business days after billing by AXP for the items in question. Payment in respect of such Adjustments by AXP is due within thirty (30) business days after AXP receives a refund or credit for refund in respect of the items in question. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in determining the Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability for Minnesota, as agreed, the Ameriprise Group State Tax Liability for the Combined Years beginning January 1, 1999 and ending December 31, 2001 has been directly increased for the entire audit Adjustment to date for that period in the total amount of $3,514,710 ($3,086,168 of tax and $248,542 of interest), and such amount has been paid in full by Ameriprise.
Adjustments.
        (b)   AXP shall in good faith control all contests relating to any such Adjustments, provided, however, in respect of any Combined State in which the Ameriprise Combined Group would bear at least 50% of the costs of any such Adjustments, AXP shall consult with Ameriprise in good faith, subject to the ultimate authority of AXP to determine how to proceed.
        SECTION 4.01.
    
    Ameriprise shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold harmless AXP and AXP Affiliates against, any and all U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. Taxes that are required to be reported on any separate Tax Return that does not include AXP or any AXP Affiliate.
Ameriprise Tax Liability.
        SECTION 4.02.
    
    AXP shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold harmless Ameriprise and Ameriprise Affiliates against, any and all U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. Taxes that are required to be reported on any separate Tax Return that does not include Ameriprise or any Ameriprise Affiliate.
AXP Tax Liability.
        SECTION 4.03.
    
    If there is an adjustment to a separate Tax Return of AXP and/or AXP Affiliates, or Ameriprise and/or Ameriprise Affiliates, as the case may be, that results in the inclusion in income in such Tax Return of income attributable to the other group of companies, and the recipient thereby incurs an Income Tax Detriment, Ameriprise shall pay to AXP or AXP shall pay to Ameriprise, as the case may be, an amount equal to such Income Tax Detriment (including any interest, penalties and additions to Tax) within thirty (30) business days after the Final Determination of such Income Tax Detriment.
Separate Return Adjustments.
        SECTION 5.01.
    
    Ameriprise acknowledges and agrees that AXP will control the process of obtaining any rulings or other formal advice from relevant Taxing authorities in respect of the Tax-Free Status, the Distribution or any related transaction. Ameriprise shall promptly execute and cause to be delivered to the Tax Advisor any representation letters ("") that the Tax Advisor provides to it and understands that such letter or letters will be relied upon by the Tax Advisor in rendering an opinion or opinions on the Tax-Free Status and related matters and/or obtaining any such ruling or formal advice. Ameriprise shall represent that, subject to any qualifications therein which are acceptable to the Tax Advisor, all information contained in its Representation Letters that concerns or relates to it or any Ameriprise Affiliate is true, correct and complete. Ameriprise shall take such other actions as may be necessary or desirable to obtain any such ruling, formal advice or opinion as the Tax Advisor may request.
Tax-Free Status Ruling, Etc.
Representation Letters
        SECTION 5.02.
    
    Ameriprise agrees that, from the date hereof until the first day after the second anniversary of the Distribution Date, it shall maintain the status of the Fund Management Business as an active trade or business as defined in Section 355(b)(2) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, that is part of, or treated as part of, the Ameriprise legal entity for U.S. federal income Tax purposes.
Maintaining Status of Active Business.
        SECTION 5.03.
    
    Ameriprise agrees that, from the date hereof until the first day after the second anniversary of the Distribution Date, it shall not (i) enter into any Proposed Acquisition Transaction, approve any Proposed Acquisition Transaction (whether for purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended, any similar corporate statute, any "fair price" or other provision of Ameriprise's charter or bylaws or otherwise) or, to the extent Ameriprise has the right to prohibit any Proposed Acquisition Transaction, permit any Proposed Acquisition Transaction to occur (whether by redeeming rights under a shareholder rights plan, finding a tender offer to be a "permitted offer" under any such plan or otherwise causing any such plan to be inapplicable or neutralized with respect to any Proposed Acquisition Transaction), (ii) merge or consolidate with any other Person or liquidate or partially liquidate, (iii) sell or otherwise transfer in a single transaction or series of transactions 50% or more of the gross or net assets of the Fund Management Business or 50% or more of the consolidated gross or net assets of Ameriprise and the Ameriprise Affiliates (such percentages to be measured based on fair market value as of the Distribution Date), (iv) redeem or otherwise repurchase (directly or through an Ameriprise Affiliate) any Ameriprise Capital Stock, or rights to acquire such stock, (v) amend its certificate of incorporation (or other organizational documents), or take any other action, whether through a stockholder vote or otherwise, affecting the relative voting rights of the separate classes of Ameriprise Capital Stock (including, without limitation, through the conversion of one class of Ameriprise Capital Stock into another class of Ameriprise Capital Stock) or (vi) take any other action or actions (including any action or transaction that would be reasonably likely to be inconsistent with any representation made in the Representation Letters, or any rulings, formal advice or opinion described in Section 5.01 above) which in the aggregate (taking into account any other transactions described in this Section 5.03) would be reasonably likely to have the effect of causing or permitting one or more Persons (whether or not acting in concert) to acquire, directly or indirectly, Ameriprise Capital Stock representing a Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest in Ameriprise or otherwise jeopardize the Tax-Free Status, unless prior to taking any such action set forth in the foregoing clauses (i) through (vi), (A) Ameriprise shall have requested that AXP obtain a private letter ruling from the IRS and AXP shall have received such a ruling in form and substance satisfactory to AXP that confirms that the Tax-Free Status will be preserved, taking into account such action and other transactions in the aggregate, or (B) Ameriprise shall provide AXP with an Unqualified Tax Opinion in form and substance satisfactory to AXP that confirms that the Tax-Free Status will be preserved, taking into
Limits on Proposed Acquisition Transactions, Etc.
account such action and other transactions in the aggregate, or (C) AXP shall have waived the requirement to obtain such ruling or opinion. In determining whether such a ruling or opinion is satisfactory, AXP may consider, among other factors, the appropriateness of any underlying assumptions and representations made in connection with such ruling or opinion. To the extent that any such ruling or opinion concerns the acquisition of a Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest in Ameriprise, it shall expressly conclude that such acquisition will satisfy one or more of the safe harbors described in the Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 355(e) of the Code. Ameriprise shall bear all costs and expenses of securing any such ruling or opinion and shall reimburse AXP for all external costs and expenses that it may incur in good faith in seeking to obtain or evaluate any such ruling or opinion.
        SECTION 5.04.
    
    If Ameriprise proposes to enter into any Twenty Five Percent Proposed Acquisition Transaction, approve a Twenty Five Percent Proposed Acquisition Transaction or, to the extent Ameriprise has the right to prohibit any Twenty Five Percent Proposed Acquisition Transaction, proposes to permit any Twenty Five Percent Proposed Acquisition Transaction to occur, in each case, during the period from the date hereof until the first day after the second anniversary of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise shall provide AXP, no later than ten (10) business days prior to the signing of any written agreement or taking any binding action with respect to such transaction, with a detailed written description of such transaction (including the type and amount of Ameriprise Capital Stock to be issued or transferred in such transaction) and a certificate duly approved by the Board of Directors of Ameriprise to the effect that the Twenty Five Percent Proposed Acquisition Transaction is not a Proposed Acquisition Transaction or any other transaction to which the requirements of Section 5.03 above would apply (a "").
Twenty Five Percent Proposed Acquisition Transactions.
Board Certificate
        SECTION 5.05.
    
    (a) Subject to subsection (b) of this section, Ameriprise shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold AXP and AXP Affiliates and their direct and indirect shareholders harmless against any Tax-Related Losses that are attributable to or result from any one or more of the following: (i) the direct or indirect acquisition of all or a portion of Ameriprise's Capital Stock and/or its assets (or any transaction or series of transactions that is deemed to be such an acquisition for purposes of Section 355(e) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder) by any means whatsoever by any Person, (ii) any negotiations, understandings, agreements or arrangements by Ameriprise, any Ameriprise Affiliate or any of their direct or indirect shareholders with respect to transactions or events (including, without limitation, stock issuances pursuant to the exercise of stock options or otherwise, option grants, capital contributions or acquisitions, or a series of such transactions or events) that cause the Distribution and related transactions to be treated as part of a plan pursuant to which one or more Persons acquire directly or indirectly a Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest in Ameriprise, (iii) any act or failure to act by Ameriprise or any Ameriprise Affiliate described in Section 5.03 above (regardless of whether such act or failure to act is covered by a ruling, Unqualified Tax Opinion or waiver described in clause (A), (B) or (C), respectively, of Section 5.03 above, or a Board Certificate described in Section 5.04 above) or (iv) any breach by Ameriprise of its agreements or representations set forth in Sections 5.01 or 5.02 above.
Indemnity.
        (b)   For purposes of calculating the amount and timing of any Tax-Related Loss in connection with any Tax payable by an indemnified party, such loss shall be calculated by assuming that the indemnified party pays income Tax at the Highest Combined Tax Rate in effect in each relevant taxable year and that the income arising in connection with the Tax-Related Losses is the only item of income, deduction, Credit or loss for such year. AXP shall consult with Ameriprise in good faith in respect of any audit, proceeding or contest in respect of any Tax-Related Loss but shall ultimately control the disposition of the same in good faith. Ameriprise shall pay AXP or such other applicable indemnified party the amount of any such Tax-Related Losses for which Ameriprise is responsible under this Section 5.05 within one (1) business day before payment is due from AXP or such other party.
        (c)   Ameriprise shall not (i) merge or consolidate with any other Person or liquidate or partially liquidate into any other Person, (ii) sell or otherwise transfer to any other Person or group of Persons,
directly or indirectly, in a single transaction or series of transactions 25% or more of the gross or net assets of Ameriprise (such percentage to be determined based on fair market value as of the Distribution Date), (iii) engage in any other reorganization or restructuring with any other Person, or (iv) agree or permit any Person or group of Persons, directly or indirectly, in a single transaction or series of transactions, to acquire a Fifty-Percent or Greater Interest in Ameriprise, unless, in each case, each such Person agrees, to AXP's satisfaction, to be jointly and severally liable with Ameriprise in its obligations under this Article V.
        SECTION 6.01.
    
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the provisions of any closing agreement relating to Dual Consolidated Losses (defined below) of any member of the Ameriprise Group (""), Ameriprise shall be liable for, and indemnify AXP and AXP Affiliates against (i) any Tax liability together with interest, penalties and additions to Tax (including, without limitation, the interest charge described in or that results from the application of Treasury Regulations Section 1.1503-2 or Treasury Regulations Section 1.1503-2A, or interest determined under any Closing Agreement that arises from any triggering event or recapture under such regulations or Closing Agreement), applicable to an item of deduction or loss of Ameriprise or an Ameriprise Affiliate (a "") or from the receipt of any payment under this Article VI and (ii) any costs or expenses (including, without limitation, external attorneys' and accountants' fees) incurred by AXP or an AXP Affiliate in connection with determining, avoiding or contesting Recapture Taxes (defined below) or enforcing the provisions of this Article VI. All indemnifiable amounts described in this Section 6.01 shall be collectively referred to as "", to be determined in accordance with Section 6.02 below.
Ameriprise Liability.
Closing Agreement
Dual Consolidated Loss
Recapture Taxes
        SECTION 6.02.
    
    Recapture Taxes shall be determined by AXP in good faith, based, in relevant part, on the following assumptions: (i) the amount of gross income realized from a triggering event or recapture of a Dual Consolidated Loss cannot be offset by any losses, deductions or Credits (other than those offsets actually permitted under Treasury Regulations Section 1.1503-2(g)(vii)(B) or (C)(2), provided that such regulations are applicable and all applicable requirements of the regulations are fully satisfied); (ii) the amount of gross income, if any, realized upon the receipt of any payment under this Article VI cannot be offset by any losses, deductions or Credits; and (iii) the amounts described in clause (i) and (ii) of Section 6.01 above are taxable at the Highest Combined Tax Rate.
Recapture Taxes.
        SECTION 6.03.
    
    At Ameriprise's request, at Ameriprise's sole cost and expense, AXP will cooperate in good faith in an effort to enter into a closing agreement with the IRS of the type described in Treasury Regulations Section 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iv)(B)(2), to the effect that Dual Consolidated Losses will not be recaptured as a result of the Distribution.
Closing Agreement.
        SECTION 7.01.
    
    AXP will apportion, in good faith, any U.S. federal consolidated net operating or capital losses, Credits or other applicable items between members of the Ameriprise Group (departing from the AXP Group as a consequence of the Distribution and related transactions) and members of the AXP Group (not taking into account Ameriprise Group members) pursuant to applicable Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 1502 of the Code. Such consolidated items and their apportionment will be adjusted by AXP to reflect any Adjustments that take place in applicable Affiliation Years.
Carryovers to Post-Affiliation Years.
        SECTION 7.02.
    
    (a) 
Carrybacks from Post-Affiliation Years.
Carryback Items.
If Ameriprise and/or its subsidiaries sustain U.S. federal capital or net operating losses or generate U.S. federal Credits in a Post-Affiliation Year which may be carried back to an Affiliation Year and will generate an Income Tax Benefit, Ameriprise may request AXP to file a Section 7.02 Claim with the IRS with respect to the U.S. federal income Tax liability of the AXP Group for such Affiliation Year. AXP shall have sole discretion whether to accept a request to file carryback claims (except for foreign Tax Credit or domestic source capital loss carryback claims) and file any amended Tax Returns or claims for refund relating thereto, which discretion may be exercised without regard to satisfying a standard of good faith or any other standard provided for in this Agreement or elsewhere. With regard to requests to file foreign Tax Credit or domestic source capital loss carryback claims to an Affiliation Year, AXP will implement such requests it determines in good faith to be available on the terms set forth hereinafter.
        (b)
    Procedures.
    If AXP files a Section 7.02 Claim, AXP shall have full control over the Section 7.02 Claim and may determine in good faith the nature of all actions to be taken in connection with such claim. If there is any limitation that applies to the AXP Group in respect of all or a portion of the items that comprise a Section 7.02 Claim in respect of foreign Tax Credits or domestic source capital losses, any Income Tax Benefit in respect of such claim shall be determined by AXP in good faith. If there any limitations in the ability of the AXP Group to utilize items in the same category as the items that comprise such claim, any Income Tax Benefit will be determined by AXP in good faith based on the assumption that the items were utilized on a Proportionate Basis. AXP will pay to Ameriprise for the amount of the Tax Benefit, if any, it determines in good faith was derived from such claim within 30 business days after it receives a refund or credit for refund therefor. Ameriprise will repay to AXP all or a portion of such amount as determined by AXP in good faith to the extent the Tax Benefit is reduced as a result of an Adjustment for any Affiliation Year or otherwise, together with applicable interest and penalties. If AXP elects to file a Section 7.02 Claim in respect of the carryback of any attribute other than foreign Tax Credits or domestic source capital losses, the terms for payment and other provisions shall be determined based upon the mutual agreement, if any, of the Parties. If AXP files a Section 7.02 Claim, Ameriprise will indemnify AXP for any additional Taxes or loss of Tax benefits incurred by a member of the AXP Group (including interest, penalties and additions to Tax) arising from such claim. AXP shall also be entitled to reimbursement from Ameriprise for any reasonable external costs for professional services incurred by AXP in connection with the Section 7.02 Claim whether or not Ameriprise receives payment or credit therefor.
        SECTION 8.01.
    
    If an Adjustment occurs, the liability of Ameriprise or AXP, as the case may be, pursuant to Article II hereof, or the amounts allocated pursuant to Article VII, shall be recomputed by AXP. As recomputed for purposes of Article II, Ameriprise shall make payments to AXP for an increase in Ameriprise's liability or AXP shall make payments to Ameriprise for an increase in AXP's liability. For purposes of Sections 2.01 and 2.02, Ameriprise's liability shall be deemed to have increased by any Adjustment that results in an increase in the Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability or a decrease in the Excess AXP Group Benefits, and AXP's liability shall be deemed to have increased by any Adjustment that results in a decrease in the Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability or an increase in the Excess AXP Group Benefits.
Determination.
        SECTION 8.02.
    
    Payments due from Ameriprise to AXP shall be made no later than one (1) business day before the due date for payment by AXP to a Taxing authority upon the Final Determination of the items in question, or, to the extent no such payment is due, within thirty (30) business days after the date of such Final Determination. Payments due from AXP to Ameriprise shall be made within thirty (30) business days after AXP receives a refund or a credit for a refund with
Payments.
regard to the items in question after a Final Determination therefor. Such payments shall include any applicable interest, penalties and additions to Tax and, if applicable, any reasonable external costs for professional services incurred by AXP thereon. In calculating any interest payable by Ameriprise to AXP hereunder, interest, if any, due from AXP to the IRS shall first be deemed to arise with respect to the increase in the liability of Ameriprise, as determined above.
        SECTION 8.03.
    
    Subject to Section 7.02 hereof, for any Affiliation Year or Combined Year, AXP will determine in good faith whether to give effect, through any Tax Return, claim for refund or otherwise, to items of loss, deduction or Credit for the Ameriprise Group which are greater than those reflected on prior Tax Returns and the nature of all actions taken with respect thereto. If AXP files such a claim, Ameriprise will indemnify AXP for any additional Taxes or loss of Tax benefits incurred by a member of the AXP Group or the applicable Total Combined Group (including interest, penalties and additions to Tax) arising from such claim.
Procedures.
        SECTION 8.04.
    
    If any transaction or arrangement between the AXP and/or AXP Affiliates, on the one hand, and Ameriprise and/or Ameriprise Affiliates, on the other hand, is recharacterized for applicable Tax purposes under Section 482 of the Code or otherwise and such recharacterization results in an Income Tax Detriment to one applicable group of companies and an Income Tax Benefit to the other group, the group incurring the Income Tax Detriment shall be paid by the other group an amount equal to such Income Tax Detriment (including any interest, penalties and additions to Tax) within thirty (30) business days after the Final Settlement of such Income Tax Detriment. In addition, each Party hereto shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold the other Party and its Affiliates harmless against, any Taxes attributable to intercompany items or otherwise for any stock or other assets (tangible or intangible) transferred to it (or an AXP Affiliate, in the case of AXP, or an Ameriprise Affiliate, in the case of Ameriprise) from the other Party hereto (or an AXP Affiliate, in the case of AXP, or an Ameriprise Affiliate, in the case of Ameriprise) for which it is determined not to have paid or provided fair market value consideration.
Intercompany Adjustments.
        SECTION 9.01.
    
    AXP and Ameriprise hereby agree that during the course of the audit of any Affiliation Year, they will in good faith endeavor to discuss and resolve separately with the IRS district agents any "" and "AXP Issues" (defined below). "Ameriprise Issues" are issues relating to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or Credit that are attributable solely to the Ameriprise Group and that could not reasonably have material adverse consequences for the U.S. federal income Tax liability of a member of the AXP Group (other than a member of the Ameriprise Group) if resolved against the taxpayer, as determined in good faith by AXP. "" are any other issues, including issues relating to Foreign Attributes of the Ameriprise Group.
Ameriprise and AXP Issues.
Ameriprise Issues
AXP Issues
        SECTION 9.02.
    
    (a) In the event a Revenue Agent's Report ("") is issued with respect to such taxable year, and the RAR contains adjustments proposed with respect to Ameriprise Issues, at Ameriprise's request, AXP shall protest (as provided for in applicable Treasury Regulations) the adjustments made with respect to Ameriprise Issues. Ameriprise will prepare that portion of any protest which it determines should be filed in connection with any adjustment proposed with respect to Ameriprise Issues and shall limit such portion of the protest to the defense of the specific Ameriprise Issues raised in the RAR, unless AXP, in its sole discretion, determines otherwise.
Procedures.
RAR
        (b)   After the filing of such protest, AXP and Ameriprise shall jointly meet with the representatives of the IRS responsible for disposing of the issues in dispute and request the separate resolution of the AXP and Ameriprise Issues. They shall further request that the IRS assign separate representatives to conduct any review of or proceedings on their respective issues.
        (c)   Regardless of whether the IRS agrees to resolve the issues affecting each Party or assign separate representatives to deal with the issues of each, AXP and Ameriprise each will attend meetings and will prepare written presentations to be made to the IRS regarding any adjustments proposed only with respect to its respective issues. AXP and Ameriprise shall keep each other promptly informed of any developments and discussions at any such meetings concerning adjustments, whether or not formally proposed, affecting the other Party.
        SECTION 9.03.
    
    (a) For each Affiliation Year, AXP shall have full control of all AXP Issues and all Ameriprise Issues not otherwise settled by Ameriprise at the audit or appellate level of the IRS ("") if the aggregate liability for any Taxes for which Ameriprise would be liable hereunder ("") with respect to all Ameriprise Unsettled Issues for such Affiliation Year does not exceed $1,000,000. If the aggregate liability for Article IX Taxes with respect to Ameriprise Unsettled Issues for any Affiliation Year exceeds $1,000,000, Ameriprise shall, at its sole cost and expense, unless AXP agrees to waive the same, obtain an evaluation of the Ameriprise Unsettled Issues ("") from an independent attorney experienced in the field of U.S. federal corporate income Taxation, who shall be selected jointly by the Parties and who, in the case of a listed or reportable transaction for U.S. federal income Tax purposes, is not a disqualified Tax advisor within the meaning of Section 6664(d)(3)(B)(ii) of the Code. The Evaluation shall state, for the Ameriprise Unsettled Issues on an issue-by-issue basis, whether, in the opinion of the attorney (which in the case of a listed transaction or reportable transaction for U.S. federal income Tax purposes does not constitute a disqualified Tax opinion as defined in Section 6664(d) of the Code) the filing position for each such issue satisfies the requirements set forth in Section 6662(d) of the Code required for the reduction in any understatement of income Tax penalty and in the case of any such listed transactions or reportable transactions satisfies the additional requirements set forth in Section 6664(d) of the Code required to avoid a reportable transaction understatement penalty. Any discussions with respect to the Evaluation shall be held with both Parties jointly, and such attorney shall send a copy of the Evaluation (including any drafts thereof) to both Parties simultaneously.
Control of Issues.
Ameriprise Unsettled Issues
Article IX Taxes
Evaluation
        (b)   If the Evaluation discloses any Ameriprise Unsettled Issues which do not fully meet the aforementioned standards as applicable, Ameriprise shall be obligated to settle such issues with the IRS at its own cost and expense within a reasonable period of time after receipt of the Evaluation. If the aggregate liability for Article IX Taxes with respect to the remaining Ameriprise Unsettled Issues does not exceed $1,000,000, Ameriprise also shall be obligated to settle all such issues at its own cost and expense within a reasonable period of time after receipt of the Evaluation.
        SECTION 9.04.
    
    If, for any Affiliation Year, the aggregate liability for Article IX Taxes with respect to the remaining Ameriprise Unsettled Issues exceeds $1,000,000, AXP may select one of two options: (i) retain complete control over and liability for the remaining Ameriprise Unsettled Issues, or (ii) cede complete control to Ameriprise for the remaining Ameriprise Unsettled Issues. In the event that AXP selects option (ii), Ameriprise shall assume complete responsibility and liability for such issues, but shall proceed with reasonable diligence to resolve the same. In so doing, Ameriprise may, upon ten (10) business days written notice to AXP, fund the prepayment of any remaining Ameriprise Unsettled Issue if the effect of such prepayment is to toll an interest charge for such issue and AXP does not otherwise determine in good faith that such action would adversely affect the U.S. federal income Tax liability of a member of the AXP Group (other than a member of the Ameriprise Group). In addition, in such event, Ameriprise shall be liable and indemnify AXP and the AXP Affiliates for, but AXP shall control the resolution of, (A) each AXP Issue which is not expressly set forth in the RAR with respect to such Affiliation Year ("") and (B) each AXP Excess Issue as defined below. For purposes of this Article IX, an "" shall mean an AXP Issue the Tax liability for which (including any related interest, penalties and additions to Tax) exceeds any proposed deficiency set forth in the RAR with respect to
Options for Resolution.
New AXP Issues
AXP Excess Issue
such AXP Issue or, if less, the amount of any deficiency with respect to such AXP Issue in an agreement with the IRS reached during Appellate proceedings (""). Ameriprise's liability for an AXP Excess Issue shall be an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the actual liability for Taxes (including any related interest, penalties and additions to Tax) with respect to such AXP Excess Issue over the proposed deficiency in the RAR or IRS Agreement, as the case may be.
IRS Agreement
        SECTION 9.05.
    
    In any case where judicial proceedings are instituted, AXP shall be entitled to select the forum for such judicial proceedings, unless AXP determines, in good faith, that such proceedings involve only Ameriprise Unsettled Issues and has chosen option (ii) described in Section 9.04 above in respect of such issues. In such event, Ameriprise shall be entitled to select the forum for judicial proceedings. Each Party shall bear the costs of litigation in respect of its own issues,
Forum for Judicial Proceedings.
provided
,
however
, that Ameriprise shall bear the costs of litigation in respect of New AXP Issues and AXP Excess Issues.
        SECTION 9.06.
    
    AXP may agree to settle any case involving net U.S. federal income Tax claims for refund by the Ameriprise Group and net U.S. federal income Tax liabilities by the AXP Group (not including the Ameriprise Group) or otherwise on such terms as it determines are advisable; provided, however, that if the Ameriprise Group has a fully agreed case providing for a net U.S. federal income Tax refund of at least $1,000,000, AXP may settle the entire case involving the entire AXP Group by agreeing to forego such refund (or any portion thereof) only if it agrees to reimburse Ameriprise for the amount of such foregone refund (or portion thereof).
Settlement of Claims.
        Section 10.01.
    
    Any Tax indemnity payments hereunder or payments made in respect of Tax-Related Losses hereunder shall, unless otherwise required by law, be reported for Tax purposes by the payer and the recipient as a cash capital contribution by AXP or a cash distribution by Ameriprise, as the case may be, immediately before the Distribution. If, notwithstanding such reporting, such payment results in additional taxable income to the recipient, such payments shall be increased such that the amount that the recipient receives (net of Taxes) shall equal the amount of the payment that it would otherwise be entitled to receive pursuant to this Agreement.
Reporting of Indemnity Payments, Etc.
        SECTION 10.02.
    
    If any payments hereunder are not made when due, interest shall accrue on the unpaid amount at the underpayment rate for large corporate underpayments, in effect from time to time under Section 6621 of the Code, while such amount is outstanding.
Interest on Late Payments.
        SECTION 11.01.
    
    (a) 
Cooperation and Furnishing of Tax Return Information.
Cooperation.
AXP and Ameriprise each agree to cooperate fully in connection with the preparation of any Tax Return relating to any Affiliation Year or Combined Year and the resolution of any related Tax audits, proceedings or disputes. In this regard, except as provided in the service level agreement between AXP and Ameriprise relating to Tax services after the Distribution Date or herein, the Tax department of Ameriprise and its subsidiaries shall, at the expense of Ameriprise, and the Tax department of AXP and its subsidiaries shall, at the expense of AXP, continue to perform the same Tax-related functions with respect to such Tax Returns, audits, proceedings or disputes they have performed to date.
        (b)       
Tax Return Information.
    For purposes of the preparation by AXP of Tax Returns for the taxable years ending on December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, respectively, on or prior to such date(s) as specified by AXP, Ameriprise shall provide AXP with Tax information for the respective life
and non-life subgroups of the Ameriprise Group and Tax information for all members of each Ameriprise Combined Group, including but not limited to, schedule(s) showing the items of income, gain, loss, deduction and Credit and Foreign Attributes with respect to each such taxable year required to be included in applicable Tax Returns and complete work papers together with such other information as AXP may request. The information provided by Ameriprise shall be consistent with any similar information provided by Ameriprise to AXP for prior taxable years.
        (c)       
Disclosures.
    Ameriprise represents that it has provided, and agrees to promptly provide, to AXP complete and accurate information that is required or AXP requests to satisfy all applicable U.S. federal, state and local, and non-U.S., disclosure and reporting requirements in respect of listed transactions, reportable transactions and other transactions that may be viewed as Tax-motivated, including, but not limited to, U.S. state expense disallowance information. Ameriprise also represents that is has provided, and agrees to promptly provide, to AXP all documents and other information that is required or AXP requests to satisfy the transfer pricing and other documentation requirements set forth in Sections 482 and 6662 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder or otherwise (including analogous provisions under U.S. state and local or non-U.S. law), including but not limited to, principal documents as defined in Treasury Regulations Section 1.6662-6(d)(2)(iii)(B), and to address any transfer pricing audit issue arising under Section 482 of the Code or otherwise, shall promptly provide to AXP any documents and information it may request, including background documents as defined in Treasury Regulations Section 1.6662-6(d)(2)(iii)(C). Ameriprise further represents that it has provided, and agrees to promptly provide, to AXP all internal and external tax opinions memoranda relating to the transactions and other matters addressed in this subsection (c). If Ameriprise fails to timely satisfy the requirements of this subsection (c), it will indemnify, and hold AXP and AXP Affiliates harmless against, any Taxes, interest, penalties or additions to Tax arising therefrom.
        SECTION 11.02.
    
.
Preparation of Tax Returns
    (a)    
Preparation
.    AXP shall have sole authority for the preparation and filing of any consolidated U.S. federal income Tax Return or Combined Tax Return, which include the items of income, gain, loss, deduction and Credit of the Ameriprise Group or any Ameriprise Combined Group for all relevant taxable periods, including but not limited to, determination of Foreign Attributes. With respect to the U.S. federal income Tax Returns for the taxable years ending December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, respectively, AXP agrees to notify Ameriprise and, subject to filing deadlines, give Ameriprise an opportunity to comment on the reporting, if it plans to file such Tax Returns reflecting data or information that is materially different from the final data or information provided by Ameriprise. In addition, with respect to any Combined Tax Return for the taxable years ending December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, respectively, in which Ameriprise is projected to have Tax liability in excess of $500,000, AXP agrees to notify Ameriprise and, subject to filing deadlines, give Ameriprise an opportunity to comment on the reporting, if it plans to file such Tax Returns reflecting data or information that is materially different from the final data or information provided by Ameriprise. Any decisions with respect to the timing, filing, or content of the above Tax Returns shall be made by AXP in its sole discretion and shall be final and binding upon the Parties hereto.
        (b)       
Elections.
    Ameriprise and the appropriate members of the Ameriprise Group or an Ameriprise Combined Group shall make or give their consent to such elections or other matters relating to the Ameriprise Group or an Ameriprise Combined Group as AXP determines are necessary or advisable in connection with the filing of any such Tax Returns. In addition, no member of the Ameriprise Group may elect to be considered as not having been a member of the AXP Group for U.S. federal income Tax purposes and no member of an Ameriprise Combined Group may elect to be considered as not having been a member of a Total Combined Group for U.S. state or local Tax purposes for any taxable year or portion thereof without the prior written consent of AXP.
        Section 12.01.
    
    Ameriprise shall not and shall not permit any of the Ameriprise Affiliates to (i) file or amend any Tax Return for the Post-Affiliation Year or a Post-Combined Year beginning on the first day following the Distribution Date, in a manner that is inconsistent with the manner in which AXP filed its Tax Returns in an Affiliation Year or a Combined Year or (ii) make any election for any Post-Affiliation Year or Post-Combined Year if such election would have the effect of binding or requiring conformity by any member of the AXP Group or any Total Combined Group for any Affiliation Year or Combined Year.
Returns.
        SECTION 12.02.
    
    Ameriprise shall be obligated to inform and disclose fully to AXP any actions taken or transactions undertaken in a Post-Affiliation Year or a Post-Combined Year which can reasonably be expected to affect in any material way the Tax liability of the AXP Group for any Affiliation Year or a Total Combined Group for any Combined Year.
Actions or Transactions.
        SECTION 12.03.
    
    Ameriprise shall promptly notify AXP and keep AXP apprised of any proposed adjustments which arise out of an audit or examination of a Post-Affiliation Year or Post-Combined Year Tax Return which could reasonably be expected to affect in any material way the Tax liability of for any Affiliation Year or Combined Years or which could reasonably result in treatment of items that is inconsistent with the manner in which AXP filed its Tax Returns for such years.
Proposed Adjustments.
        Section 13.01.
    
    Without limiting any of the provisions of this Agreement, each of the Parties agrees that it shall retain, until the expiration of the appropriate statutes of limitations (including any extensions) plus ninety (90) days, copies of any Tax Returns for any open periods during the Affiliation Years and Combined Return Years which might be subject to adjustment under this Agreement, supporting work schedules and other books, records or information which may be relevant and that it will not destroy or otherwise dispose of such records without first providing the other Party with a reasonable opportunity to review and copy the same. Without limiting the foregoing, Ameriprise shall cooperate with AXP in identifying such books, records or information and so retain or provide to AXP such books, records or information as may be specified by AXP in writing within 180 days after the Distribution Date. Any information obtained pursuant to this Agreement, or any other information obtained by AXP or Ameriprise relating to the Tax position of either Party shall be kept confidential by the Parties hereto, except if otherwise required by a Taxing authority.
Retention Period.
        SECTION 13.02.
    
    Without limiting the foregoing, each of the Parties hereto agrees that it shall retain copies of any books and records in its possession as required by any record retention agreement in effect from time to time, between AXP and the IRS or any other Taxing authority.
Record Retention Policy.
        SECTION 13.03.
    
    Ameriprise shall maintain and provide to AXP upon request information which will enable AXP to determine, clarify or verify the adjusted book and Tax bases of the Ameriprise stock held by AXP, Ameriprise's assets, both tangible and intangible, including the stock of all directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries of Ameriprise which were members of the Ameriprise Group or an Ameriprise Combined Group at any time during Affiliation Years or Combined Years, and the adjusted book and Tax bases of all assets, both tangible and intangible, of such subsidiaries. In addition, Ameriprise shall maintain and provide to AXP upon request all relevant information for the determination of earnings and profits of any members of the Ameriprise Group, in accordance with applicable provisions of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
Tax Attributes.
        Section 14.01.
    
    For U.S. federal, applicable U.S. state and local income and other Tax purposes, all deductions in respect of compensation and employee benefits, other than AXP Stock-Based Awards as provided below, whether on or before or after the Distribution Date, shall be allocated to AXP (or its appropriate subsidiary) or Ameriprise (or its appropriate subsidiary) based on the entity which, directly or indirectly, provides the cash or other consideration to its employees, former employees or other service providers or any individual whose rights are derived from such individual's relationship with such employee, former employee or service provider.
General.
        SECTION 14.02.
    
    For U.S. federal, applicable U.S. state and local income and other Tax purposes, all deductions in respect of AXP Stock-Based Awards, whether on or before or after the Distribution Date, shall be allocated as follows: (i) deductions in respect of AXP Options that are exercised on or before the Distribution Date ("") shall be allocated to AXP (and shall accordingly not be taken into account in computing Adjusted Separate Ameriprise Group Federal Tax Liability) except for the amount of deductions (A) reflected in net U.S. federal income deferred Tax assets that are properly recorded on the Ameriprise Group's books in respect of such Exercised AXP Options immediately before their exercise pursuant to SFAS 123 or SFAS 123(R) as adopted by AXP ("") or (B) actually realized upon the exercise of such SFAS 123 Exercised AXP Options, whichever is less, and (ii) deductions in respect of AXP Options that are exercised after the Distribution Date or in respect of AXP Stock-Based Awards (other than AXP Options) shall be allocated between AXP (or its appropriate subsidiary that was a direct employer of record of the holder of such award during the Vesting Period) and Ameriprise (or its appropriate subsidiary that was a direct employer of record of the holder of such award during the Vesting Period) pro rata based on their respective Vesting Ratios.
AXP Stock-Based Awards.
Exercised AXP Options
SFAS Exercised AXP Options
        SECTION 14.03.
    
    Unless otherwise required by law, AXP and Ameriprise shall for themselves and their appropriate subsidiaries compute their respective Tax liability and file all applicable Tax Returns in accordance with the allocations under Sections 14.01 and 14.02 above. In the event that any deduction allocated under such Sections to one entity is subsequently required by law to be reported by another entity for Tax purposes, AXP or Ameriprise shall pay the entity to which the deduction was allocated under such Sections such amounts as are necessary to put such entity in the same position, on an after-Tax basis, as it would have been if the allocation under such Sections had been respected.
Reporting of Deductions.
        SECTION 14.04.
    
    To the extent that AXP, Ameriprise or any of their subsidiaries is allocated a deduction for Tax purposes under Sections 14.01 and 14.02 above or otherwise, the entity to which the deduction is allocated shall be solely responsible for satisfying any withholding and employment Tax liabilities and Tax reporting obligations in respect of the compensation that corresponds to such deduction.
Employment Taxes and Tax Reporting.
        SECTION 14.05.
    
    All determinations necessary to effect this Article XIV, including those related to the Vesting Period and Vesting Ratios, will be made by AXP in good faith.
Determinations.
        SECTION 15.01.
    
    All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given only if delivered personally
Notices.
or by facsimile transmission or mailed (first class postage prepaid) to the Parties at the following addresses or facsimile numbers:
        If to AXP or any member of the AXP Group, to:
American Express Company 200 Vesey Street New York, New York 10285 Attn: Gilbert E. Ahye
with a copy to:
American Express Company 200 Vesey Street New York, New York 10285 Attn: Director of Tax
If to Ameriprise or any member of the Ameriprise Group, to:
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 707 2 Avenue, South Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474 Attn: Walter Berman
nd
with a copy to:
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 707 2 Avenue, South Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474 Attn: Director of Tax
nd
All such notices, requests and other communications will (i) if delivered personally to the address as provided in this section, be deemed given upon delivery, (ii) if delivered by facsimile transmission to the facsimile number as provided in this section, be deemed given upon receipt and (iii) if delivered by mail in the manner described above to the address as provided in this section, be deemed given upon receipt (in each case regardless of whether such notice, request or other communication is received by any other Person to whom a copy of such notice, request or other communication is to be delivered pursuant to this section). Any Party from time to time may change its address, facsimile number or other information for the purpose of notices to that Party by giving notice specifying such change to the other Party.
        SECTION 15.02.
    
    (a) This Agreement, together with any exhibits and schedules hereto, constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter.
Complete Agreement; Representations.
        (b)   AXP represents on behalf of itself and each other member of the AXP Group and Ameriprise represents on behalf of itself and each other member of the Ameriprise Group as follows:
          (i)  each such Person has the requisite corporate or other power and authority and has taken all corporate or other action necessary in order to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement to which it is a Party and to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and
         (ii)  this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by such Person (if such Person is a Party) and constitutes a valid and binding agreement of it enforceable in accordance with the terms thereof (assuming the due execution and delivery thereof by the other Party) except as such
enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, fraudulent conveyance, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles.
        SECTION 15.03.
    
    (a) This Agreement may be amended, supplemented, modified or superseded only by a written instrument signed by duly authorized signatories of the Parties.
Amendment, Modification, or Waiver.
        (b)   Any term or condition of this Agreement may be waived at any time by the Party that is entitled to the benefit thereof, but no such waiver shall be effective unless set forth in a written instrument duly executed by or on behalf of the Party waiving such term or condition. No waiver by any Party of any term or condition of this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed or construed as a waiver of the same or any other term or condition of this Agreement on any future occasion. All remedies, either under this Agreement or by law or otherwise afforded, will be cumulative and not alternative.
        SECTION 15.04.
    
    If any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision of this Agreement.
Severability.
        SECTION 15.05.
    
    (a) Neither this Agreement nor any right, interest or obligation hereunder may be assigned by either Party hereto without the prior written consent of the other Party hereto and any attempt to do so will be void. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement is binding upon, inures to the benefit of and is enforceable by the Parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
No Assignment; Binding Effect; No Third-Party Beneficiaries.
        (b)   Except for provisions relating to Affiliates and the provisions of Article V relating to Tax-Related Losses, the terms and provisions of this Agreement are intended solely for the benefit of each Party hereto and their respective Affiliates, successors or permitted assigns, and it is not the intention of the Parties to confer third-party beneficiary rights upon any other Person.
        (c)   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, unless the context indicates otherwise, if an obligation is imposed on AXP or Ameriprise hereunder it shall cause any Person that directly or indirectly controls or is controlled by it to comply therewith to the extent reasonably necessary to carry out such obligation. "Control" for these purposes shall have the same meaning as that set forth under the definition of "Affiliate".
        SECTION 15.06.
    
    The headings used in this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and do not define or limit the provisions hereof.
Headings.
        SECTION 15.07.
    
    This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of the counterparts together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
        SECTION 15.08.
    
    This Agreement and any dispute arising out of, in connection with or relating to this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to the conflicts of laws principles thereof.
Governing Law.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have entered into this Agreement as of the date first above written.
QuickLinks
TAX ALLOCATION AGREEMENT DATED AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2005 BY AND BETWEEN AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY AND AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL, INC.
FORM OF TAX ALLOCATION AGREEMENT
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS
ARTICLE II U.S. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX LIABILITIES
ARTICLE III U.S. COMBINED STATE AND LOCAL INCOME TAX LIABILITIES
ARTICLE IV SEPARATE TAX RETURN OBLIGATIONS
ARTICLE V TAX-FREE STATUS OF DISTRIBUTION
ARTICLE VI DUAL CONSOLIDATED LOSSES
ARTICLE VII CARRYOVER AND CARRYBACK ITEMS
ARTICLE VIII U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX ADJUSTMENTS
ARTICLE IX U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX PROCEEDINGS
ARTICLE X PAYMENTS
ARTICLE XI TAX RETURNS
ARTICLE XII POST-AFFILIATION YEARS AND POST-COMBINED YEARS
ARTICLE XIII BOOKS AND RECORDS
ARTICLE XIV COMPENSATION AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
ARTICLE XV MISCELLANEOUS

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
 
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY
AND
AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL, INC.
DATED AS OF
SEPTEMBER 30, 2005
 
 
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AGREEMENT
This EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AGREEMENT (the ""), dated as of September 30, 2005 is by and between American Express Company, a New York corporation (""), and Ameriprise Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("", and together with AXP, each a "" and collectively, the "").
Agreement
AXP
Ameriprise
Party
Parties
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of AXP has determined that it is in the best interests of AXP to separate the Ameriprise Business and the AXP Business into two independent public companies on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Separation and Distribution Agreement, in order to resolve systemic issues related to the allocation of capital and management resources between the Ameriprise Business and the AXP Business, and give Ameriprise greater flexibility to manage, invest in, and expand the Ameriprise Business, while ensuring that AXP can focus its time and resources on the development of the AXP Business;
WHEREAS, in furtherance of the foregoing, AXP has announced its intention to distribute all of the shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Ameriprise ("") owned by AXP to the holders of AXP Common Stock by means of the Distribution;
Ameriprise Common Stock
WHEREAS, in furtherance of the foregoing, AXP and Ameriprise have entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of August 24, 2005 (the ""), and other Ancillary Agreements that will govern certain matters relating to the Separation and the relationship of AXP, Ameriprise and their respective Affiliates prior to and following the Distribution Date; and
Separation and Distribution Agreement
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, AXP and Ameriprise have agreed to enter into this Agreement for the purpose of allocating Assets, Liabilities and responsibilities with respect to certain employee compensation and benefit plans and programs between and among them.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the respective agreements and covenants contained in this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS
1.1           .   Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Separation and Distribution Agreement and the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
"AEB" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(c)(i) of this Agreement.
"AEFC RETIREE MEDICAL ELIGIBLE" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(c)(ii) of this Agreement.
"AGREEMENT"
 shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the preamble to this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the preamble to this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE 401(k)" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 4.1(a) of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE ACTUARY" means an independent actuary selected by Ameriprise.
"AMERIPRISE BENEFIT PLAN" means any Benefit Plan sponsored, maintained or contributed to by any member of the Ameriprise Group including, without limitation, the Ameriprise Retirement Plan, the Ameriprise 401(k), the Ameriprise Reimbursement Account Plan, the Ameriprise SRP, the Ameriprise Severance Plans, the Ameriprise Retiree Medical Program, the Ameriprise Retained Welfare Plans and the Ameriprise Welfare Plans.
"AMERIPRISE COMMON STOCK" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals to this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLANS" means, collectively, the Ameriprise Financial Deferred Compensation Plan and the Ameriprise Financial Deferred Equity Program for Independent Financial Advisors.
"AMERIPRISE EMPLOYEE" means any individual who, immediately following the Distribution Date, will be employed by Ameriprise or any member of the Ameriprise Group in a capacity considered by Ameriprise to be common law employment, including active employees and employees on vacation and approved leave of absence (including maternity, paternity, family, sick, short-term or long-term disability leave, qualified military service under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, and leave under the Family Medical Leave Act and other approved leaves and any person on serial severance).
"AMERIPRISE LOI" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.4(b) of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE OPTION" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.2(c) of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE PARTICIPANT" means any individual who, immediately following the Distribution Date, is an Ameriprise Employee, a Former Ameriprise Employee, or a beneficiary, dependent or alternate payee of any of the foregoing.   For purposes of the Ameriprise Welfare Plans only, "Ameriprise Participant" shall also include individuals categorized by Ameriprise as "qualifying P2 55/10 advisors" or as "members of the field organization" who were on an approved leave of absence as of March 22, 2000; , the treatment of any such individual as an Ameriprise Participant shall be limited to those Ameriprise Welfare Plans that are analogous to the AXP Welfare Plans under which such individual was covered as of the Distribution Date.
provided
that
"AMERIPRISE PG AWARDS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.5(a) of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE PLAN PARTICIPANTS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.1 of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE PRICE RATIO" means the quotient obtained by dividing the Ameriprise Stock Value by the AXP Pre-Distribution Stock Value.
"AMERIPRISE REIMBURSEMENT ACCOUNT PLAN" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(d) of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE RETIREE MEDICAL PROGRAM" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(c)(ii) of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE RETAINED WELFARE PLANS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.1 of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE RETIREMENT PLAN" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.1 of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE SERVICE PLANS" means, collectively, the Ameriprise Retirement Plan, the Ameriprise 401(k), and the Ameriprise Severance Plans.
"AMERIPRISE SEVERANCE PLANS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 8.4(a) of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE SHARE RATIO" means the quotient obtained by dividing the AXP Pre-Distribution Stock Value by the Ameriprise Stock Value.
"AMERIPRISE SRP" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 6.1(a) of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE STOCK PLAN" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2.5 of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE STOCK VALUE" means the official NYSE Only closing price of Ameriprise trading "when issued" on September 30, 2005 as reported by the NYSE.
"AMERIPRISE UK ACTUARY" means an independent UK actuary selected by Ameriprise.
"AMERIPRISE UK PLAN PARTICIPANTS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 9.1(a) of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE UK RETIREMENT PLAN" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 9.1(a) of this Agreement.
"AMERIPRISE WELFARE PLANS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(a) of this Agreement.
"AMP KEL CASH BENEFIT" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.5(b) of this Agreement.
"AXP"
 shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the preamble to this Agreement.
"AXP ACTUARY" means Towers, Perrin, Forster, and Crosby, Inc. (New York), or any other independent actuary appointed by AXP.
"AXP BENEFIT PLAN" means any Benefit Plan sponsored, maintained or contributed to by AXP or any of its Affiliates including, without limitation, the AXP Retirement Plan, the AXP ISP, the AXP Reimbursement Account Plan, the AXP SRP, the AXP Severance Plans, the AXP Retiree Medical Program, and the AXP Welfare Plans.
"AXP COMMITTEE" means the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of AXP.
"AXP DC PARTICIPANTS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 8.2(a) of this Agreement.
"AXP DC PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 8.2(a) of this Agreement.
"AXP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLANS" means, collectively, those deferred compensation plans and arrangements set forth on Schedule A attached hereto.
"AXP EMPLOYEE"
 means any individual who, immediately following the Distribution Date, will be employed by AXP or any member of the AXP Group in a capacity considered by AXP to be common law employment, including active employees and employees on vacation and approved leave of absence (including maternity, paternity, family, sick, short-term or long-term disability leave, qualified military service under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, and leave under the Family Medical Leave Act and other approved leaves and any person on serial severance).
"AXP ISP" means the American Express Incentive Savings Plan.
"AXP KEL" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.5(a) of this Agreement.
"AXP LOI" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.4(a) of this Agreement.
"AXP OPTION" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.2(b) of this Agreement.
"AXP PARTICIPANT" means any individual who, immediately following the Distribution Date, is an AXP Employee, a Former AXP Employee or a beneficiary, dependent or alternate payee of any of the foregoing.
"AXP POST-DISTRIBUTION STOCK VALUE" means the official NYSE Only adjusted closing price of AXP on September 30, 2005 as reported by the NYSE.
"AXP PRE-DISTRIBUTION STOCK VALUE" means the official NYSE Only closing price of AXP on September 30, 2005 as reported by the NYSE.
"AXP PRICE RATIO" means the quotient obtained by dividing the AXP Post-Distribution Stock Value by the AXP Pre-Distribution Stock Value.
"AXP REIMBURSEMENT ACCOUNT PLAN" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(d) of this Agreement.
"AXP RESTRICTED STOCK" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.3(a) of this Agreement.
"AXP RETAINED CLAIM" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 8.5(a) of this Agreement.
"AXP RETIREE MEDICAL PROGRAM"
 shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(c) of this Agreement.
"AXP RETIREMENT PLAN" means the American Express Retirement Plan.
"AXP SERVICE PLANS" means, collectively, the AXP Retirement Plan, the AXP ISP, and the AXP Severance Plans.
"AXP SEVERANCE PLANS"
 means, collectively, the American Express Senior Executive Severance Plan and the American Express Severance Pay Plan.
"AXP SHARE RATIO" means the quotient obtained by dividing the AXP Pre-Distribution Stock Value by the AXP Post-Distribution Stock Value.
"AXP SRP" means the American Express Supplemental Retirement Plan.
"AXP STOCK PLANS" means, collectively, the American Express Company 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the American Express Company 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan and any other stock option or stock incentive compensation plan or arrangement for employees, officers, or independent contractors of AXP, as amended.
 "AXP UK ACTUARY" means Towers, Perrin, Forster, and Crosby, Inc. (United Kingdom), or any other independent actuary appointed by AXP.
"AXP UK PLAN" means the American Express UK Pension Plan.
"AXP WELFARE PLANS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(a) of this Agreement.
"BENEFIT PLAN"
 shall mean, with respect to an entity, each plan, program, arrangement, agreement or commitment that is an employment, consulting, non-competition or
deferred compensation agreement, or an executive compensation, incentive bonus or other bonus, employee pension, profit-sharing, savings, retirement, supplemental retirement, stock option, stock purchase, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, other equity-based compensation, severance pay, salary continuation, life, health, hospitalization, sick leave, vacation pay, disability or accident insurance plan, corporate-owned or key-man life insurance or other employee benefit plan, program, arrangement, agreement or commitment, including any "employee benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), sponsored or maintained by such entity (or to which such entity contributes or is required to contribute).
"CHQ" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(c)(i) of this Agreement.
"CHQ/AEB/TRS RETIREE MEDICAL ELIGIBLE" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(c)(i) of this Agreement.
"COBRA"
 means the continuation coverage requirements for "group health plans" under Title X of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended, and as codified in Code Section 4980B and Sections 601 through 608 of ERISA, and any similar state group health plan continuation Law, together with all regulations and proposed regulations promulgated thereunder.
"CODE"
 means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"CONTROL" means, as to any Person, the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.  The term "" shall have a correlative meaning.
Controlled
"DELAYED PRICE RATIO" means, with respect to a Delayed Transfer Employee, the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the price at which Ameriprise Common Stock first trades on the NYSE immediately after such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, as determined by the AXP Committee, by (ii) the price at which AXP Common Stock last trades on the NYSE immediately prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, as determined by the AXP Committee.
"DELAYED SHARE RATIO" means, with respect to a Delayed Transfer Employee, the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the price at which AXP Common Stock last trades on the NYSE immediately prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, as determined by the AXP Committee, by (ii) the price at which Ameriprise Common Stock first trades on the NYSE immediately after such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, as determined by the AXP Committee.
"DELAYED TRANSFER AMERIPRISE LOI" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.4(d)(ii) of this Agreement.
"DELAYED TRANSFER AMERIPRISE OPTION" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.2(e)(ii) of this Agreement.
"DELAYED TRANSFER AMERIPRISE RESTRICTED STOCK" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.3(d)(ii) of this Agreement.
"DELAYED TRANSFER AXP LOI" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.4(d)(i) of this Agreement.
"DELAYED TRANSFER AXP OPTION" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.2(e)(i) of this Agreement.
"DELAYED TRANSFER AXP RESTRICTED STOCK" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.3(d)(i) of this Agreement.
"DELAYED TRANSFER CALCULATION DATE" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.3(b)(i) of this Agreement.
"DELAYED TRANSFER EMPLOYEES" shall mean those AXP Employees (and the beneficiaries, dependents or alternate payees of such Persons), as set forth on Schedule B (which Schedule may be amended by mutual agreement of the Parties at any time prior to the first anniversary of the Distribution Date), who are considered by the Parties to be important to the Ameriprise Business and whose transfer from AXP to the Ameriprise Group in connection with the Separation and Distribution will be delayed, due to certain business constraints, until after the Distribution Date but prior to the first anniversary of the Distribution Date (or such later date as mutually agreed to by the Parties).
"DETRIMENTAL CONDUCT PROVISIONS" means (i) the Detrimental Conduct Provisions Attachment to the American Express Company 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan Master Agreement (as amended), effective as of February 26, 2001; (ii) the Detrimental Conduct Provisions Attachment to the American Express Company 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plan Master Agreement (as amended), effective as of January 1, 1998; (iii) any Consent to the Application of Forfeiture and Detrimental Conduct Provisions to Incentive Compensation Plan Awards to which an Ameriprise Participant is a party; and (iv) any other similar detrimental conduct provisions applicable to outstanding AXP long-term incentive awards issued under the AXP Stock Plans, in each case as in effect from time to time.
"DOL" means the United States Department of Labor.
"ERISA"
 means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
"ERISA AFFILIATE" means with respect to any Person, each business or entity which is a member of a "controlled group of corporations," under "common control" or a member of an "affiliated service group" with such Person within the meaning of Sections 414(b), (c) or (m) of the Code, or required to be aggregated with such Person under Section 414(o) of the Code, or under "common control" with such Person within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(14) of ERISA.
"ESTIMATED DELAYED TRANSFER AMOUNT" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.3(b)(ii) of this Agreement.
"ESTIMATED RETIREMENT PLAN TRANSFER AMOUNT" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.2(b)(ii) of this Agreement.
"EXCLUDED INVESTMENTS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.2(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
"FINAL DELAYED TRANSFER AMOUNT" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.3(b)(ii) of this Agreement.
"FINAL DELAYED TRANSFER DATE" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.3(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
"FINAL RETIREMENT PLAN TRANSFER AMOUNT" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.2(b)(iv) of this Agreement.
"FINAL TRANSFER DATE" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.2(b)(v) of this Agreement.
"FORMER AMERIPRISE EMPLOYEE"
 means, as of the Distribution Date, any former employee of AXP or an Affiliate, including retired, deferred vested, non-vested and other inactive terminated individuals, whose most recent active employment with AXP or an Affiliate was with a member of the Ameriprise Group and such active employment has ended on or before the Distribution Date.
"FORMER AXP EMPLOYEE"
 means, as of the Distribution Date, any former employee of AXP or an Affiliate, including retired, deferred vested, non-vested and other inactive terminated individuals, whose most recent active employment with AXP or an Affiliate was with a member of the AXP Group.
"HIPAA"
 means the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended.
"INITIAL CASH TRANSFER" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.2(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
"INITIAL TRANSFER AMOUNT" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.2(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
"INITIAL TRANSFER DATE" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.2(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
"IRS" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
"MEASUREMENT DATE" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.2(b) of this Agreement.
"OUTSTANDING PG AWARDS" shall mean, collectively, the PG-XIV, PG-XV, and PG-XVI awards granted pursuant to the 1998 American Express Company Incentive Compensation Plan and any related agreement.
"PARTICIPATING COMPANY"
 means AXP or any Person (other than an individual) participating in an AXP Benefit Plan.
"PARTIES" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the preamble to this Agreement.
"PAYMENT DATE" means the fifth business day after the date on which the conditions set forth in Section 9.1(c)(ii) of this Agreement have been fulfilled and satisfied or such other date as the Parties may agree to in writing.
"PRE-DISTRIBUTION CLAIM PERIOD" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(g)(ii) of this Agreement.
"PRE-DISTRIBUTION DATE CLAIMS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(g)(ii) of this Agreement.
"REMAINING AXP LOI" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.4(a) of this Agreement.
"REMAINING AXP OPTION" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.2(b) of this Agreement.
"REMAINING AXP RESTRICTED STOCK" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.3(a) of this Agreement.
"REVISED RETIREMENT PLAN TRANSFER AMOUNT" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.2(b)(iv) hereof.
"RUN-OUT COVERAGE OPTIONS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(g)(ii) of this Agreement.
"SECURITIES ACT" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
"SEPARATION AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT"
 shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals to this Agreement.
"SERIAL SEVERANCE EMPLOYEE" means any Former Ameriprise Employee who, as of the Distribution Date or such later date as determined by Ameriprise in its sole discretion, (i) has executed and delivered to AXP or Ameriprise, as appropriate, a written severance agreement, and (ii) who is entitled to receive the payment of severance benefits on a serial basis pursuant to such severance agreement.
"SERVICE CREDITING DATE" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2.4(b)(i) of this Agreement.
"TRANSFER AMOUNT" means the UK Transfer Amount, adjusted in accordance with the provisions of the Actuary's Letter.
"TRANSFER DATE" shall mean, with respect to a Delayed Transfer Employee, the date that such Delayed Transfer Employee commences active employment with a member of the Ameriprise Group.
"TRS" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.2(c)(i) of this Agreement.
"TRUE-UP AMOUNT" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3.2(b)(v) of this Agreement.
"UK ACTUARY'S LETTER" means the letter from the AXP UK Actuary to the Ameriprise UK Actuary, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
"UK TRANSFER AMOUNT" means the amount determined as such in accordance with the provisions of the UK Actuary's Letter.
"UNVESTED AXP OPTION" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7.2(c) of this Agreement.
"U.S."
 means the United States of America.
                1.2           .  (a) Words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and words of one gender shall include the other gender, in each case, as the context requires; (b) the terms "hereof," "herein," and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and references to Article, Section, paragraph, Exhibit, and Schedule are references to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs, Exhibits, and Schedules to this Agreement unless otherwise specified; (c) the word "including" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall mean "including, without limitation," unless otherwise specified; and (d) any reference to any federal, state, local or non-U.S. statute or Law shall be deemed to also refer to all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the context otherwise requires.
General Interpretive Principles
ARTICLE II GENERAL PRINCIPLES
2.1           ASSUMPTION AND RETENTION OF LIABILITIES; RELATED ASSETS
.
(a)           As of the Effective Time, except as otherwise expressly provided for in this Agreement, AXP shall, or shall cause one or more members of the AXP Group to, assume or retain and AXP hereby agrees to pay, perform, fulfill and discharge, in due course in full (i) all Liabilities under all AXP Benefit Plans, (ii) all Liabilities with respect to the employment, service, termination of employment or termination of service of all AXP Employees, Former AXP Employees, their dependents and beneficiaries, and other service providers (including any individual who is, or was, an independent contractor, temporary employee, temporary service worker, consultant, freelancer, agency employee, leased employee, on-call worker, incidental
worker, or nonpayroll worker of any member of the AXP Group or in any other employment, non-employment, or retainer arrangement, or relationship with any member of the AXP Group), in each case to the extent arising in connection with or as a result of employment with or the performance of services for any member of the AXP Group, and (iii) any other Liabilities or obligations expressly assigned to AXP or any of its Affiliates under this Agreement.  For purposes of clarification, the Liabilities assumed or retained by the AXP Group as provided for in this Section 2.1(a) are intended to be AXP Liabilities as such term is defined in the Separation and Distribution Agreement.
(b)           As of the Effective Time, except as otherwise expressly provided for in this Agreement, Ameriprise shall, or shall cause one or more members of the Ameriprise Group to, assume or retain, as applicable, and Ameriprise hereby agrees to pay, perform, fulfill and discharge, in due course in full (i) all Liabilities under all Ameriprise Benefit Plans, (ii) all Liabilities with respect to the employment, service, termination of employment or termination of service of all Ameriprise Employees, Former Ameriprise Employees, their dependents and beneficiaries and other service providers (including any individual who is, or was, an independent contractor, temporary employee, temporary service worker, consultant, freelancer, agency employee, leased employee, on-call worker, incidental worker, or nonpayroll worker of any member of the Ameriprise Group or in any other employment, non-employment, or retainer arrangement, or relationship with any member of the Ameriprise Group), and (iii) any other Liabilities or obligations expressly assigned to Ameriprise or any of its Affiliates under this Agreement.  For purposes of clarification, the Liabilities assumed or retained by the Ameriprise Group as provided for in this Section 2.1(b) are intended to be Ameriprise Liabilities as such term is defined in the Separation and Distribution Agreement.
(c)           From time to time after the Distribution, Ameriprise shall promptly reimburse AXP, upon AXP's reasonable request and the presentation by AXP of such substantiating documentation as Ameriprise shall reasonably request, for the cost of any obligations or Liabilities satisfied by AXP or its Affiliates that are, or that have been made pursuant to this Agreement, the responsibility of Ameriprise or any of its Affiliates.
(d)           From time to time after the Distribution, AXP shall promptly reimburse Ameriprise, upon Ameriprise's reasonable request and the presentation by Ameriprise of such substantiating documentation as AXP shall reasonably request, for the cost of any obligations or Liabilities satisfied by Ameriprise that are, or that have been made pursuant to this Agreement, the responsibility of AXP or its Affiliates.
2.2           AMERIPRISE PARTICIPATION IN AXP BENEFIT PLANS
.  Except as otherwise expressly provided for in this Agreement or as otherwise expressly agreed to in writing between the Parties, (i) effective as of the Effective Time, Ameriprise and each member of the Ameriprise Group shall cease to be a Participating Company in any AXP Benefit Plan, and (ii) each (A) Ameriprise Participant and any other service providers (including any individual who is, or was, an independent contractor, temporary employee, temporary service worker, consultant, freelancer, agency employee, leased employee, on-call worker, incidental worker, or nonpayroll worker of any member of the AXP Group or the Ameriprise Group or in any other employment, non-employment, or retainer arrangement, or relationship with any member of the AXP Group or the Ameriprise Group), effective as of the Effective Time, and (B) Delayed
Transfer Employee, effective as of such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, shall cease to participate in, be covered by, accrue benefits under, be eligible to contribute to or have any rights under any AXP Benefit Plan, and AXP and Ameriprise shall take all necessary action to effectuate each such cessation.
2.3           COMPARABLE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS.  Except as otherwise agreed to by AXP, (i) with respect to an Ameriprise Employee, for the one-year period commencing on the Distribution Date and ending on the one-year anniversary of such date and (ii) with respect to a Delayed Transfer Employee whose Transfer Date occurs prior to the one-year anniversary of the Distribution Date, for the period commencing on such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date and ending on the one-year anniversary of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) intends to provide such Ameriprise Employees and Delayed Transfer Employees with compensation opportunities (including, without limitation, salary, wages, commissions and bonus opportunities) and employee benefits that are substantially comparable, in the aggregate, to the compensation opportunities and employee benefits to which such Ameriprise Employees and Delayed Transfer Employees were entitled to immediately prior to the Distribution Date.
2.4           SERVICE RECOGNITION
.
(a)           .  Ameriprise shall give each Ameriprise Participant and Delayed Transfer Employee full credit for purposes of eligibility, vesting, determination of level of benefits, and, to the extent applicable, benefit accruals under any Ameriprise Benefit Plan for such Ameriprise Participant's or Delayed Transfer Employee's service with any member of the AXP Group prior to the Distribution Date or applicable Transfer Date to the same extent such service was recognized by the applicable AXP Benefit Plans immediately prior to the Distribution Date or applicable Transfer Date; , , that such service shall not be recognized to the extent that such recognition would result in the duplication of benefits.
Pre-Distribution Service Credit
provided
however
 (b)          .   Each of AXP and Ameriprise (acting directly or through their respective Affiliates) shall cause each of the AXP Service Plans and the Ameriprise Service Plans, respectively, to provide the following service crediting rules effective as of the Distribution Date:
Post-Distribution Reciprocal Service Crediting
                                (i)            If an AXP Employee who participates in any of the AXP Service Plans becomes employed by a member of the Ameriprise Group prior to the first anniversary of the Distribution Date (or such later date as mutually agreed to by the Parties) (the "") and such AXP Employee is continuously employed by the AXP Group from the Distribution Date through the date such AXP Employee commences active employment with a member of the Ameriprise Group, then such AXP Employee's service with the AXP Group following the Distribution Date shall be recognized for purposes of eligibility, vesting and level of benefits under the appropriate Ameriprise Service Plans, in each case to the same extent as such AXP Employee's service with the AXP Group was recognized under the corresponding AXP Service Plans.
Service Crediting Date
                                (ii)           If an AXP Employee who participates in any of the AXP Service Plans becomes employed by a member of the Ameriprise Group either (A) on or after the Service Crediting Date or (B) without having been continuously employed by the AXP Group from the Distribution Date through the date such AXP Employee commences active employment with a member of the Ameriprise Group, then, except to the extent required by applicable Law, such individual's service with the AXP Group following the Distribution Date will not be recognized for any purpose under any Ameriprise Service Plan.
                                (iii)          If an Ameriprise Employee who participates in any of the Ameriprise Service Plans becomes employed by a member of the AXP Group prior to the Service Crediting Date and such Ameriprise Employee is continuously employed by the Ameriprise Group from the Distribution Date through the date such Ameriprise Employee commences active employment with a member of the AXP Group, then such Ameriprise Employee's service with the Ameriprise Group following the Distribution Date shall be recognized for purposes of eligibility, vesting and level of benefits under the appropriate AXP Service Plans, in each case to the same extent as such Ameriprise Employee's service with the Ameriprise Group was recognized under the corresponding Ameriprise Service Plans.
(iv)          If an Ameriprise Employee who participates in any of the Ameriprise Service Plans becomes employed by a member of the AXP Group either (A) on or after the Service Crediting Date or (B) without having been continuously employed by the Ameriprise Group from the Distribution Date through the date such Ameriprise Employee commences active employment with a member of the AXP Group, then the corresponding AXP Service Plans will only take into consideration such individual's service with the AXP Group and the Ameriprise Group, in each case, prior to the Distribution Date and, thus, except to the extent required by applicable Law, such Ameriprise Employee's service with the Ameriprise Group following the Distribution Date will not be recognized for any purpose under any AXP Service Plan.
(v)           Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, for the one (1) year period commencing on the Distribution Date, the AXP Service Plans and the Ameriprise Service Plans shall provide that no break in service occurs with respect to any AXP Employee or Ameriprise Employee who is hired or rehired by any member of the Ameriprise Group or the AXP Group after the termination of such AXP Employee's or Ameriprise Employee's employment with either the AXP Group or the Ameriprise Group within such one (1) year period.
2.5           APPROVAL BY AXP AS SOLE STOCKHOLDER
.  Effective as of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise shall have adopted the Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "") which shall permit the issuance of long-term incentive awards that have material terms and conditions substantially similar to those long-term incentive awards issued under the relevant AXP Stock Plans
Ameriprise Stock Plan
that are to be substituted with Ameriprise long-term incentive awards in connection with the Distribution.  The Ameriprise Stock Plan shall be
approved prior to the Distribution by AXP as Ameriprise's sole shareholder.
 
ARTICLE III U.S. QUALIFIED DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN
3.1           ESTABLISHMENT OF AMERIPRISE PLAN.  Effective as of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise shall, or shall have caused one or more members of the Ameriprise Group to, establish a defined benefit pension plan and related trust to provide retirement benefits to Ameriprise Participants who immediately prior to the Distribution Date were participants in, or entitled to present or future benefits (whether or not vested) under, the AXP Retirement Plan (such defined benefit pension plan, the "" and such Ameriprise Participants, the "").  Ameriprise shall be responsible for taking all necessary, reasonable, and appropriate action to establish, maintain and administer the Ameriprise Retirement Plan so that it is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and that the related trust thereunder is exempt under Section 501(a) of the Code.  Notwithstanding the above, u
Ameriprise Retirement Plan
Ameriprise Plan Participants
ntil October 18, 2005, all benefits payable to Ameriprise Plan Participants (including benefits that have accrued under the Ameriprise Retirement Plan following the Distribution Date) shall be paid from the AXP Retirement Plan.
  Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall be responsible for any and all Liabilities (including Liability for funding) and other obligations with respect to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan.
3.2           AMERIPRISE PARTICIPANTS
(a)           .  Effective as of the Initial Transfer Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) hereby agrees to cause the Ameriprise Retirement Plan to assume, and to fully perform, pay and discharge, all accrued benefits under the AXP Retirement Plan relating to all Ameriprise Plan Participants as of the Distribution Date (inclusive of benefits paid by the AXP Retirement Plan to Ameriprise Plan Participants following the Distribution Date, but prior to the Initial Transfer Date in accordance with Section 3.1 above, but excluding benefits attributable to lost participants).
Assumption of AXP Retirement Plan Liabilities
(b)           .
Transfer of AXP Retirement Plan Assets
                (i)            The Parties intend that the portion of the AXP Retirement Plan covering Ameriprise Plan Participants (excluding forfeitures attributable to lost participants) shall be transferred to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan in accordance with Section 414(l) of the Code, Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(l)-1, and Section 208 of ERISA.  No later than thirty (30) days prior to the Distribution Date, AXP and Ameriprise (acting directly or through their respective Affiliates) shall, to the extent necessary, file an IRS Form 5310-A regarding the transfer of Assets and Liabilities from the AXP Retirement Plan to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan.
                (ii)           As soon as reasonably practicable following the Distribution Date, AXP shall cause the AXP Actuary to determine the estimated value, as of the Distribution Date, of the Assets to be transferred to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan in accordance with the assumptions and valuation methodology set forth on Schedule C attached hereto (the "").
Estimated Retirement Plan Transfer Amount
                (iii)          On or before October 18, 2005, AXP shall transfer to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan an amount in cash at least sufficient to fund benefit payments reasonably projected to be required under the Ameriprise Retirement Plan prior to the Initial Transfer Date (the "").  Within thirty (30) days (or such later time as mutually agreed to by
Initial Cash Transfer
the Parties) following the determination of the Estimated Retirement Plan Transfer Amount, AXP and Ameriprise (each acting directly or through their respective Affiliates) shall cooperate in good faith to cause an initial transfer of Assets (the date of such transfer, the "") from the AXP Retirement Plan to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan in an amount equal to ninety percent (90%) of the Estimated Retirement Plan Transfer Amount minus the Initial Cash Transfer, adjusted to reflect earnings or losses during the period from the Distribution Date to the Initial Transfer Date (such amount, the "").  Such earnings or losses shall be determined based on the actual rate of return of the AXP Retirement Plan without regard to those investments set forth on Schedule D attached hereto (the "") for the period commencing on the Distribution Date and ending on the last calendar day of the month ending immediately prior to the Initial Transfer Date.  Earnings or losses for the period from such last day of the month to the Initial Transfer Date shall be based on a blended index (thirty-seven percent (37%) S&P 500 Index, twenty percent (20%) Russell 2000 Index, twenty-two percent (22%) MSCI EAFE Index, and twenty-one percent (21%) Lehman Aggregate Bond Index) determined as of the date that is as close as administratively practicable to the Initial Transfer Date, but in no event more than five (5) business days prior to the Initial Transfer Date.  AXP shall satisfy its obligation pursuant to this Section 3.2(b)(iii) by transferring Assets, in kind, equal to the Initial Transfer Amount consisting of a pro rata percentage (rounded up or down to the nearest whole lot or distributable unit) of all investments, excluding the Excluded Investments, under the AXP Retirement Plan.
Initial Transfer Date
Initial Transfer Amount
Excluded Investments
(iv)         Within ninety (90) days following the Initial Transfer Date, AXP shall cause the AXP Actuary to provide Ameriprise with a revised calculation of the value, as of the Distribution Date, of the Assets to be transferred to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan determined in accordance with the assumptions and valuation methodology set forth on Schedule C attached hereto (the "").  Ameriprise may submit, at its sole cost and expense, the Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount to the Ameriprise Actuary for verification; , , such verification process and any calculation performed by the Ameriprise Actuary in connection therewith shall be performed solely on the basis of the assumptions and valuation methodology set forth on Schedule C attached hereto.  Furthermore, the AXP Actuary and Ameriprise Actuary shall cooperate in good faith to ensure that any such verification process is performed in a timely manner.  In the event the Ameriprise Actuary determines that the value, as of the Distribution Date, of the Assets to be transferred to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan differs from the Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount, the Ameriprise Actuary and AXP Actuary shall use good faith efforts to reconcile any such difference.  If the Ameriprise Actuary and the AXP Actuary fail to reconcile such difference and (A) the Ameriprise Actuary's calculation is within two percent (2%) of the Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount, the average of the Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount and the Ameriprise Actuary's calculation shall be used; or (B) the difference between the Ameriprise Actuary's calculation and the Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount exceeds two percent (2%), the Ameriprise Actuary and the AXP Actuary shall jointly designate a third, independent actuary whose calculation of the value, as of the Distribution Date, of the Assets to be transferred to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan shall be final and binding; , , such calculation must be performed in accordance with the assumptions and valuation methodology set forth on Schedule C attached hereto; , , , that such value shall be between the value determined by the Ameriprise Actuary and the Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount or equal to either such value.  AXP and Ameriprise shall each pay one-half of the costs incurred in
Revised Retirement Plan Transfer Amount
provided
that
provided
that
and
provided
further
connection with the retention of such independent actuary.  The final, verified value, as of the Distribution Date, of the Assets to be transferred to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan as determined in accordance with this Section 3.2(b)(iv) shall be referred to herein as the "."
Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount
(v)           Within forty-five (45) days of the determination of the Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount, AXP shall cause the AXP Retirement Plan to transfer to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan (the date of such transfer, the "") an amount, in cash, equal to (A) the Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount minus (B) the sum of (1) the Initial Transfer Amount, (2) the Initial Cash Transfer, and (3) the aggregate amount of payments made from the AXP Retirement Plan to Ameriprise Plan Participants in order to satisfy any benefit obligation with respect to such Ameriprise Plan Participants during the period commencing on the Distribution Date and ending on the date of the Initial Cash Transfer (such amount the ""); , , the True-Up Amount shall be adjusted to reflect earnings or losses as described below; and , , that in the event the sum of clauses (1), (2) and (3) above is greater than the Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount, AXP shall not be required to cause any such additional transfer and instead Ameriprise shall be required to cause a transfer of cash from the Ameriprise Retirement Plan to the AXP Retirement Plan in amount equal to the amount by which the sum of clauses (1), (2) and (3) above exceeds the Final Retirement Plan Transfer Amount.  The parties hereto acknowledge that the AXP Retirement Plan's transfer of the True-Up Amount to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan shall be in full settlement and satisfaction of the obligations of AXP and AXP Retirement Plan to transfer Assets to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan pursuant to this Section 3.2(b).
Final Transfer Date
True-Up Amount
provided
that
provided
further
The True-Up Amount shall be paid from the AXP Retirement Plan to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan, in cash, and adjusted to reflect earnings or losses during the period from the Distribution Date to the Final Transfer Date.  Such earnings or losses shall be determined based on the actual rate of return of the AXP Retirement Plan without regard to the Excluded Investments for the period commencing on the Distribution Date and ending on the last calendar day of the month ending immediately prior to the Final Transfer Date.  Earnings or losses for the period from such last day of the month to the Final Transfer Date shall be based on a blended index (thirty-seven percent (37%) S&P 500 Index, twenty percent (20%) Russell 2000 Index, twenty-two percent (22%) MSCI EAFE Index, and twenty-one percent (21%) Lehman Aggregate Bond Index) determined as of the date that is as close as administratively practicable to the Final Transfer Date, but in no event more than five (5) business days prior to the Final Transfer Date.  In the event that Ameriprise is obligated to cause the Ameriprise Retirement Plan to reimburse the AXP Retirement Plan pursuant to this Section 3.2(b)(v), such reimbursement shall be performed in accordance with the same principles set forth herein with respect to the payment of the True-Up Amount.
                (c)           .  As of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall cause the Ameriprise Retirement Plan to recognize and maintain all existing elections, including, but not limited to, beneficiary designations, payment form elections and rights of alternate payees under qualified domestic relations orders with respect to Ameriprise Plan Participants under the AXP Retirement Plan.
Continuation of Elections
(d)           .  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Ameriprise Retirement Plan shall fully restore the hypothetical account of any individual who becomes employed by any member of the Ameriprise Group following the Distribution Date and whose employment with the AXP Group terminated on or before the Distribution Date with no vested benefit under the AXP Retirement Plan; , , pursuant to AXP's existing practices and policies, such individual would have been entitled to restoration of such individual's hypothetical account under the AXP Retirement Plan had such individual been re-employed by a member of the AXP Group rather than by a member of the Ameriprise Group.
Terminated Non-Vested Employees
provided
that
(e)           .  AXP hereby acknowledges and agrees that it shall cause the AXP Retirement Plan to retain responsibility for all Liabilities and fully perform, pay and discharge all obligations, when such obligations become due, relating to benefits attributable to any lost participant in the AXP Retirement Plan as of the Distribution Date.
Lost Participants
3.3           DELAYED TRANSFER EMPLOYEES.
(a)           .  With respect to each Delayed Transfer Employee, effective as of such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall cause the Ameriprise Retirement Plan to assume, and to fully perform, pay and discharge, all benefits accrued under the AXP Retirement Plan relating to such Delayed Transfer Employee through such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date.
Assumption of AXP Retirement Plan Liabilities
(b)           .
Transfer of AXP Retirement Plan Assets
(i)  The parties intend that the portion of the AXP Retirement Plan covering Delayed Transfer Employees shall be transferred to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan in accordance with Section 414(l) of the Code, Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(l)-1, and Section 208 of ERISA.  No later than thirty (30) days prior to the first anniversary of the Distribution Date (or such other date as mutually agreed to by the parties) (the ""), AXP and Ameriprise (acting directly or through their respective Affiliates) shall, to the extent necessary, file an IRS Form 5310-A regarding the transfer of Assets and Liabilities from the AXP Retirement Plan to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan with respect to the Delayed Transfer Employees.
Delayed Transfer Calculation Date
                (ii)           No later than ninety (90) days following the Delayed Transfer Calculation Date, the AXP Actuary shall determine the value of the Assets to be transferred to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan with respect to the Delayed Transfer Employees in accordance with the assumptions and valuation methodology set forth on Schedule C attached hereto with respect to the Delayed Transfer Employees (the "").  Ameriprise may submit, at its sole cost and expense, the Estimated Delayed Transfer Amount to the Ameriprise Actuary for verification; , , such verification process and any calculation performed by the Ameriprise Actuary in connection therewith shall be performed solely on the basis of the assumptions and valuation methodology set forth on Schedule C attached hereto.  Furthermore, the AXP Actuary and Ameriprise Actuary shall cooperate in good faith to ensure that any such verification process is performed in a timely manner.  In the event the Ameriprise
Estimated Delayed Transfer Amount
provided
that
Actuary determines that the value of the Assets to be transferred to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan differs from the Estimated Delayed Transfer Amount, the Ameriprise Actuary and AXP Actuary shall use good faith efforts to reconcile any such difference.  If the Ameriprise Actuary and the AXP Actuary fail to reconcile such difference and (A) the Ameriprise Actuary's calculation is within two percent (2%) of the Estimated Delayed Transfer Amount, the average of the Estimated Delayed Transfer Amount and the Ameriprise Actuary's calculation shall be used; or (B) the difference between the Ameriprise Actuary's calculation and the Estimated Delayed Transfer Amount exceeds two percent (2%), the Ameriprise Actuary and the AXP Actuary shall jointly designate a third, independent actuary whose calculation of the value of the Assets to be transferred to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan shall be final and binding; , , such calculation must be performed in accordance with the assumptions and valuation methodology set forth on Schedule C attached hereto; , , , that such value shall be between the value determined by the Ameriprise Actuary and the Estimated Delayed Transfer Amount or equal to either such value.  AXP and Ameriprise shall each pay one-half of the costs incurred in connection with the retention of such independent actuary.  The final, verified value of the Assets to be transferred to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan as determined in accordance with this Section 3.3(b)(ii) shall be referred to herein as the "."
provided
that
and
provided
further
Final Delayed Transfer Amount
(iii)          Within thirty (30) days following the determination of the Final Delayed Transfer Amount, AXP shall cause the AXP Retirement Plan to transfer to the Ameriprise Retirement Plan (the date of such transfer, the "") an amount, in cash, equal to the Final Delayed Transfer Amount, adjusted to reflect earnings or losses during the period from the Delayed Transfer Calculation Date through the Final Delayed Transfer Date.  Such earnings or losses shall be determined based on the actual rate of return of the AXP Retirement Plan without regard to the Excluded Investments for the period commencing on the Delayed Transfer Calculation Date and ending on the last calendar day of the month ending immediately prior to the Final Delayed Transfer Date.  Earnings or losses for the period from such last day of the month to the Final Delayed Transfer Date shall be based on a blended index (thirty-seven percent (37%) S&P 500 Index, twenty percent (20%) Russell 2000 Index, twenty-two percent (22%) MSCI EAFE Index, and twenty-one percent (21%) Lehman Aggregate Bond Index) determined as of the date that is as close as administratively practicable to the Final Delayed Transfer Date, but in no event more than five (5) business days prior to the Final Delayed Transfer Date.
Final Delayed Transfer Date
                (d)           .  As of each Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall cause the Ameriprise Retirement Plan to recognize and maintain all existing elections including, but not limited to, beneficiary designations, payment form elections and rights of alternate payees under qualified domestic relations orders with respect to such Delayed Transfer Employee under the AXP Retirement Plan.
Continuation of Elections
3.4           AMERICAN EXPRESS FUNDED PENSION PLAN.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, all Liabilities and other obligations accrued prior to May 1, 1985 under the American Express Funded Pension Plan shall at all times remain Liabilities and obligations of AXP regardless of whether such Liabilities or obligations relate to any Ameriprise Participant or Delayed Transfer Employee.
4.1           THE AMERICAN EXPRESS INCENTIVE SAVINGS PLAN
(a)           .  Effective as of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise shall, or shall have caused one of its Affiliates to, establish a defined contribution plan and trust for the benefit of Ameriprise Participants (the "").  Ameriprise shall be responsible for taking all necessary, reasonable and appropriate action to establish, maintain and administer the Ameriprise 401(k) so that it is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and that the related trust thereunder is exempt under Section 501(a) of the Code.  Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall be responsible for any and all Liabilities (including Liability for funding) and other obligations with respect to the Ameriprise 401(k).
Establishment of the Ameriprise 401(k)
Ameriprise 401(k)
(b)           .
Transfer of AXP ISP Assets
(i)           Ameriprise Participants.  As soon as reasonably practicable (but not later than thirty (30) days) following the Distribution Date, AXP shall cause the accounts (including any outstanding loan balances and forfeitures, but excluding forfeitures attributable to lost participants) in the AXP ISP attributable to Ameriprise Participants and all of the Assets in the AXP ISP related thereto to be transferred in-kind to the Ameriprise 401(k), and Ameriprise shall cause the Ameriprise 401(k) to accept such transfer of accounts and underlying Assets and, effective as of the date of such transfer, to assume and to fully perform, pay and discharge, all obligations of the AXP ISP relating to the accounts of Ameriprise Participants (to the extent the Assets related to those accounts are actually transferred from the AXP ISP to the Ameriprise 401(k)) as of the Distribution Date.  The transfer of Assets shall be conducted in accordance with Section 414(l) of the Code, Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(1)-1, and Section 208 of ERISA.
(ii)          Delayed Transfer Employees.  As soon as reasonably practicable (but not later than thirty (30) days) following a Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, AXP shall cause the accounts (including any outstanding loan balances) in the AXP ISP attributable to such Delayed Transfer Employee and all of the Assets in the AXP ISP related thereto to be transferred in-kind to the Ameriprise 401(k), and Ameriprise shall cause the Ameriprise 401(k) to accept such transfer of accounts and underlying Assets and, effective as of the date of such transfer, to assume and to fully perform, pay and discharge, all obligations of the AXP ISP relating to the accounts of such Delayed Transfer Employee (to the extent the Assets related to such accounts are actually transferred from the AXP ISP to the Ameriprise 401(k)) as of such Transfer Date.  The transfer of Assets shall be conducted in accordance with Section 414(l) of the Code, Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(l)-1, and Section 208 of ERISA.
  (c)         .  As of (i) the Distribution Date with respect to Ameriprise Participants, and (ii) a Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date with respect to the Delayed Transfer Employees, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall cause the Ameriprise 401(k) to recognize and maintain all elections, including, but not limited to, deferral, investment and payment form elections, beneficiary designations, and the rights of
Continuation of Elections
alternate payees under qualified domestic relations orders with respect to Ameriprise Participants or Delayed Transfer Employees, as applicable, under the AXP ISP; , , investment elections relating to the American Express Company Stock Fund under the AXP ISP shall be deemed to apply to the Ameriprise Financial Stock Fund under the Ameriprise 401(k).
provided
that
(d)           .  AXP and Ameriprise each agrees to ensure that the shares of both Ameriprise Common Stock and AXP Common Stock held in both the AXP ISP and the Ameriprise 401(k) are maintained in compliance with all requirements of applicable Law.
Employer Securities
(e)           .  No later than thirty (30) days prior to (i) the Distribution Date or, (ii) with respect to each Delayed Transfer Employee, the date on which Assets and Liabilities associated with such Delayed Transfer Employee under the AXP ISP transfer to the Ameriprise 401(k) in accordance with Section 4.1(b)(ii) above, AXP and Ameriprise (each acting directly or through their respective Affiliates) shall, to the extent necessary, file IRS Form 5310-A regarding the transfer of Assets and Liabilities from the AXP ISP to the Ameriprise 401(k) as discussed in this Article IV.
Form 5310-A
(f)            .  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Ameriprise 401(k) shall fully restore the unvested portion of the account of any individual who becomes employed by any member of the Ameriprise Group following the Distribution Date and whose employment with the AXP Group (inclusive of Ameriprise) terminated on or before the Distribution Date with a portion of such individual's benefits under the AXP ISP not being vested; , pursuant to AXP's existing practices and policies, such individual would have been entitled to the restoration of the unvested portion of such individual's AXP ISP account had such individual been rehired by a member of the AXP Group rather than a member of the Ameriprise Group.
Terminated Non-Vested Employees
provided
that,
(g)           .  AXP hereby acknowledges and agrees that it shall cause the AXP ISP to retain responsibility for all Liabilities and fully perform, pay and discharge all obligations, when such obligations become due, relating to benefits attributable to any lost participant in the AXP ISP as of the Distribution Date.
Lost Participants
4.2           CONTRIBUTIONS AS OF THE DISTRIBUTION DATE.  All contributions payable to the AXP ISP with respect to employee deferrals, matching contributions and AXP stock contributions for Ameriprise Participants through the Distribution Date and for Delayed Transfer Employees through the date on which such Delayed Transfer Employees cease providing services to a member of the AXP Group, determined in accordance with the terms and provisions of the AXP ISP, ERISA and the Code, shall be paid by AXP to the AXP ISP prior to the date of the Asset transfer described in Sections 4.1(b)(i) and (ii) above.
5.1           HEALTH AND WELFARE PLANS MAINTAINED BY THE AMERIPRISE GROUP PRIOR TO THE DISTRIBUTION DATE.  Following the Distribution Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall retain, and AXP shall have no obligation whatsoever with regard to, all obligations and Liabilities under, or with respect to, the
health and welfare plans maintained by Ameriprise or any of its Affiliates that are listed on Schedule E attached hereto (the "").
Ameriprise Retained Welfare Plans
5.2           HEALTH AND WELFARE PLANS MAINTAINED BY AXP PRIOR TO THE DISTRIBUTION DATE.
                (a)           .  AXP or one or more of its Affiliates maintain each of the health and welfare plans set forth on Schedule F attached hereto (the "") for the benefit of eligible AXP Participants and Ameriprise Participants.  Effective as of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise shall, or shall cause an Ameriprise Affiliate to, adopt, for the benefit of eligible Ameriprise Participants, health and welfare plans, the terms of which are substantially comparable, in the aggregate, to the terms of the AXP Welfare Plans as in effect immediately prior to the Distribution Date (collectively, the "").
Establishment of the Ameriprise Welfare Plans
AXP Welfare Plans
Ameriprise Welfare Plans
                (b)           .  Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall cause all Ameriprise Welfare Plans to (i)
Terms of Participation in Ameriprise Welfare Plans
waive all limitations as to preexisting conditions, exclusions, and service conditions with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to Ameriprise Participants and Delayed Transfer Employees, other than limitations that were in effect with respect to (A) Ameriprise Participants as of the Distribution Date and (B) each Delayed Transfer Employee as of such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, in each case under the AXP Welfare Plans
, (ii) honor any deductible, out-of-pocket maximum, and co-payment incurred by Ameriprise Participants and Delayed Transfer Employees under the AXP Welfare Plans in which they participated immediately prior to the Distribution Date or such Transfer Date, as the case may be, in satisfying any applicable deductible or out-of-pocket requirements under any Ameriprise Welfare Plans during the same plan year in which such deductible, out-of-pocket maximums and co-payments were made, (iii) waive any waiting period limitation or evidence of insurability requirement that would otherwise be applicable to an Ameriprise Participant following the Distribution Date or Delayed Transfer Employee following such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, to the extent such Ameriprise Participant or Delayed Transfer Employee, as applicable, had satisfied any similar limitation under the analogous AXP Welfare Plan, and (iv) other than with respect to the Ameriprise Welfare Plan that is comparable to the American Express Vision Care Plan, provide each Ameriprise Participant and Delayed Transfer Employee with new annual and lifetime maximums.
                (c)           .
Retiree Medical Eligibility
(i)           AXP Retiree Medical Program.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, for so long as it maintains the AXP Retiree Medical Program described in Schedule G attached hereto, as may be amended from time to time, (the ""), AXP shall cause the AXP Retiree Medical Program to contain provisions regarding eligibility and service crediting that ensure that Ameriprise Participants and Delayed Transfer Employees who, as of the Distribution Date or Transfer Date, as applicable, were eligible to immediately commence benefits under the AXP Retiree Medical Program under the cost of coverage provisions applicable to retirees of American Express Corporate Headquarters (""), American Express Bank Ltd (""), or American Express Travel Related Services Company,
AXP Retiree Medical Program
CHQ
AEB
Inc, ("") (the "") remain eligible for benefits under the AXP Retiree Medical Program after the Distribution Date or the relevant Transfer Date, as applicable.  In addition, AXP shall cause the AXP Retiree Medical Program to contain provisions regarding eligibility and service crediting that ensure that Ameriprise Participants who, during the period commencing on February 1, 2005, and ending immediately prior to the Distribution Date, transferred employment from an AXP Affiliate at which they were CHQ/AEB/TRS Retiree Medical Eligible to an AXP Affiliate at which they were no longer CHQ/AEB/TRS Retiree Medical Eligible, remain eligible for benefits under the AXP Retiree Medical Program after the Distribution Date.
TRS
CHQ/AEB/TRS Retiree Medical Eligible
(ii)          Ameriprise
Retiree Medical Program.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, for so long as it maintains the retiree medical program established pursuant to Section 5.2(a) above (the ""), as may be amended from time to time, Ameriprise shall cause the Ameriprise Retiree Medical Program to contain provisions regarding eligibility and service crediting that ensure that: (A) AXP Participants who, as of the Distribution Date, were eligible to immediately commence benefits under the AXP Retiree Medical Program under the cost of coverage provisions applicable to retirees of American Express Financial Corporation (the ""); and Ameriprise Employees who become members of the AXP Group prior to the first anniversary of the Distribution Date (or such later date as mutually agreed to by the Parties) who, as of such transfer date were eligible to immediately commence benefits under the Ameriprise Retiree Medical Program are eligible for benefits under the Ameriprise Retiree Medical Program as of the Distribution Date or later transfer date, as applicable.  In addition, Ameriprise shall cause the Ameriprise Retiree Medical Program to contain provisions regarding eligibility and service crediting that ensure that AXP Participants who, during the period commencing on February 1, 2005, and ending immediately prior to the Distribution Date, transferred employment from an AXP Affiliate at which they were AEFC Retiree Medical Eligible to an AXP Affiliate at which they were not AEFC Retiree Medical Eligible, are eligible for benefits under the Ameriprise Retiree Medical Program as of the Distribution Date.
Ameriprise Retiree Medical Program
AEFC Retiree Medical Eligible
                (d)           .  Effective as of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall have established a health and dependent care reimbursement account plan (the "") with features that are comparable to those contained in the health and dependent care reimbursement account plan maintained by AXP for the benefit of Ameriprise Participants immediately prior to the Distribution Date (the "").  With respect to Ameriprise Participants, effective as of the Effective Time, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall assume responsibility for administering all reimbursement claims of Ameriprise Participants with respect to calendar year 2005, whether arising before, on, or after the Distribution Date, under the Ameriprise Reimbursement Account Plan.  With respect to each Delayed Transfer Employee, effective as of each such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall assume responsibility for administering all reimbursement claims of such Delayed Transfer Employee with respect to the calendar year in which such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date occurs, whether arising before, on, or after such Transfer Date, under the Ameriprise Reimbursement Account Plan.  With respect to Ameriprise Participants, as soon as practicable but no more than 45 days following the Distribution Date, AXP shall cause to be transferred to Ameriprise an amount in
Reimbursement Account Plan
Ameriprise Reimbursement Account Plan
AXP Reimbursement Account Plan
cash equal to (i) the sum of all contributions to the AXP Reimbursement Account Plan made with respect to calendar year 2005 by or on behalf of any Ameriprise Participant prior to the Distribution Date, reduced by (ii) the sum of all claims incurred in calendar year 2005 and paid by the AXP Reimbursement Account Plan with respect to such Ameriprise Participants prior to the Distribution Date.  With respect to each Delayed Transfer Employee, as soon as practicable but no more than forty five (45) days following the Delayed Transfer Calculation Date, AXP shall cause to be transferred to Ameriprise an amount in cash equal to (i) the sum of all contributions to the AXP Reimbursement Account Plan made by or on behalf of such Delayed Transfer Employee prior to his or her Transfer Date with respect to the calendar year in which his or her Transfer Date occurs, reduced by (ii) the sum of all claims incurred by such Delayed Transfer Employee during the calendar year in which such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date occurs and paid by the AXP Reimbursement Account Plan prior to such Transfer Date.
                (e)           .  With respect to Ameriprise Participants, as of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall cause the Ameriprise Welfare Plans to recognize and maintain all elections and designations (including, without limitation, all coverage and contribution elections and beneficiary designations) made by Ameriprise Participants under, or with respect to, the AXP Welfare Plans and apply such elections and designations under the Ameriprise Welfare Plans for the remainder of the period or periods for which such elections or designations are by their original terms applicable, to the extent such election or designation is available under the corresponding Ameriprise Welfare Plan.  With respect to each Delayed Transfer Employee, as of such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall cause the Ameriprise Welfare Plans to recognize and maintain all elections and designations (including, without limitation, all coverage and contribution elections and beneficiary designations) made by such Delayed Transfer Employee under, or with respect to, the AXP Welfare Plans and apply such elections and designations under the Ameriprise Welfare Plans for the remainder of the period or periods for which such elections or designations are by their original terms applicable, to the extent such election or designation is available under the corresponding Ameriprise Welfare Plan.
Continuation of Elections
                (f)            .  Effective as of the Effective Time, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall assume, or shall have caused the Ameriprise Welfare Plans to assume, responsibility for compliance with the health care continuation coverage requirements of COBRA with respect to Ameriprise Participants who, as of the day prior to the Distribution Date, were covered under an AXP Welfare Plan pursuant to COBRA.  Effective as of a Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall assume, or shall have caused the Ameriprise Welfare Plans to assume, responsibility for compliance with the health care continuation coverage requirements of COBRA with respect to such Delayed Transfer Employee to the extent such Delayed Transfer Employee was, as of the day prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, covered under an AXP Welfare Plan pursuant to COBRA.  AXP (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall be responsible for administering compliance with the certificate of creditable coverage requirements of HIPAA applicable to the AXP Welfare Plans with respect to Ameriprise Participants and Delayed Transfer Employees.  The Parties hereto agree that neither the Distribution nor a Delayed Employee's transfer of employment on such Delayed Transfer
COBRA and HIPAA
Employee's Transfer Date shall constitute a COBRA qualifying event for any purposes of COBRA.
                (g)           .
Liabilities
(i)            Insured Benefits.  With respect to employee welfare and fringe benefits that are provided through the purchase of insurance, AXP shall cause the AXP Welfare Plans to fully perform, pay and discharge all claims of (A) Ameriprise Participants that are incurred prior to the Distribution Date and (B) each Delayed Transfer Employee that are incurred prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date and Ameriprise shall cause the Ameriprise Welfare Plans to fully perform, pay and discharge all claims of (A) Ameriprise Participants that are incurred on or after the Distribution Date and (B) each Delayed Transfer Employee that are incurred on or after such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date.
(ii)           Self-Insured Benefits.          With respect to employee welfare and fringe benefits that are provided on a self-insured basis, except as otherwise provided herein, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall fully perform, pay and discharge, under the Ameriprise Welfare Plans, all claims of (A) Ameriprise Participants from and after the Distribution Date that are incurred on or after the Distribution Date and (B) each Delayed Transfer Employee from and after such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date that are incurred on or after such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date.  Except as provided otherwise herein, from and after the Distribution Date (or, in the case of a Delayed Transfer Employee, such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date), Ameriprise shall reimburse AXP for all self-insured vision benefit claims paid by the AXP Welfare Plans or AXP which were (A) claims of Ameriprise Participants incurred but not paid prior to the Distribution Date or (B) claims of any Delayed Transfer Employees incurred but not paid prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date.  AXP shall submit a monthly written invoice to Ameriprise detailing Ameriprise's Liability for such claims.  Ameriprise shall have the right, at its own expense, to audit, or to cause an inspection body selected by Ameriprise and composed of members with appropriate professional qualifications to audit, such invoices in a commercially reasonable manner during normal AXP business hours.  Notwithstanding the above, from and after the Distribution Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall reimburse AXP for its proportionate share of the Liability, as calculated below, with respect to self-insured medical and dental benefits under the AXP Welfare Plans that were incurred prior to the Distribution Date, but submitted to, or paid by, the AXP Welfare Plans or AXP during the twenty-four month period beginning on the Distribution Date (the "", and such claims, the "").  Claims submitted to the AXP Welfare Plans or AXP after the expiration of the Pre-Distribution Claim Period shall be the sole liability of the AXP Welfare Plans and AXP.  Ameriprise's proportionate share of the Pre-Distribution Date Claims shall be determined separately on a monthly basis for each of the self-insured medical plan coverage options set forth on Schedule H attached hereto (the ""), beginning with the month following the Distribution Date, by multiplying the Pre-Distribution Date Claims paid under such Run-Out Coverage Option during the month by the applicable percentage set forth on Schedule H attached hereto with respect to such Run-Out Coverage Option.  AXP shall submit a monthly written invoice to Ameriprise detailing Ameriprise's portion of the Pre-Distribution Date Claims.  Ameriprise shall have the right, at its own expense, to audit, or to cause an inspection body selected by Ameriprise and composed of members with appropriate
Pre-Distribution Claim Period
Pre-Distribution Date Claims
Run-Out Coverage Options
professional qualifications to audit, such invoices in a commercially reasonable manner during normal AXP business hours.
(iii)         Retiree Medical.  From and after the Distribution Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall fully perform, pay and discharge all claims of Ameriprise Participants under the Ameriprise Retiree Medical Program that are incurred on or after the Distribution Date and all claims of Delayed Transfer Employees under the Ameriprise Retiree Medical Program that are incurred on or after such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date.  From and after the Distribution Date (or in the case of a Delayed Transfer Employee, such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date), Ameriprise shall reimburse AXP for all claims paid by the AXP Retiree Medical Plan or AXP which were (A) claims of Ameriprise Participants incurred but not paid prior to the Distribution Date or (B) claims of any Delayed Transfer Employee incurred but not paid prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date.  AXP shall submit a monthly written invoice to Ameriprise detailing Ameriprise's Liability for such claims.  Ameriprise shall have the right, at its own expense, to audit, or to cause an inspection body selected by Ameriprise and composed of members with appropriate professional qualifications to audit, such invoices in a commercially reasonable manner during normal AXP business hours.
(iv)         Incurred Claim Definition.  For purposes of this Section 5.2(g), a claim or Liability is deemed to be incurred (A) with respect to medical, dental, vision and/or prescription drug benefits, upon the rendering of health services giving rise to such claim or Liability; (B) with respect to life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment and business travel accident insurance, upon the occurrence of the event giving rise to such claim or Liability; (C) with respect to disability benefits, upon the date of an individual's disability, as determined by the disability benefit insurance carrier or claim administrator, giving rise to such claim or Liability; and (D) with respect to a period of continuous hospitalization, upon the date of admission to the hospital.
(v)          Treatment of Other Liabilities, Recoveries and Adjustments.  For purposes of applying the claim Liability provisions of clauses (ii) and (iii) above:  (A) recoveries made by the AXP Welfare Plans or AXP prior to the expiration of the Pre-Distribution Claim Period with respect to claims incurred prior to the Distribution Date or relevant Transfer Date, as applicable, including, but not limited to, subrogation/reimbursement recoveries, claim adjustment recoveries and demutualization proceeds, shall be taken into account as positive claim adjustments; and (B) other non-routine claim Liabilities paid by the AXP Welfare Plans or AXP with respect to claims incurred prior to the Distribution Date or relevant Transfer Date, as applicable, including, but not limited to, Medicare Secondary Payer Liability, shall be taken into account as claim Liabilities.
(vi)         Claim Experience.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall take any action necessary to ensure that any claims experience under the AXP Welfare Plans attributable to Ameriprise Participants and Delayed Transfer Employees shall be allocated to the Ameriprise Welfare Plans.
5.3           DISPOSITION OF VEBA ASSETS.  Following the Distribution Date, AXP and Ameriprise hereby agree to cooperate in good faith to ensure that AXP and the AXP Affiliates
shall retain all Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association Assets and any related trusts, and in no event will any such Assets or such related trusts transfer to Ameriprise or one of its Affiliates.
                5.4           TIME-OFF BENEFITS.  Ameriprise shall credit each Ameriprise Participant and Delayed Transfer Employee with the amount of accrued but unused vacation time, sick time and other time-off benefits as such Ameriprise Participant or Delayed Transfer Employee had with the AXP Group as of the Distribution Date, or with respect to Delayed Transfer Employees, the relevant Transfer Date.  Notwithstanding the above, Ameriprise shall not be required to credit any Ameriprise Participant or Delayed Transfer Employee with any accrual to the extent that a benefit attributable to such accrual is provided by the AXP Group.
                5.5           KEY EXECUTIVE LIFE INSURANCE.
                (a)           .  AXP shall retain the American Express Company Key Executive Life Insurance Plan As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 1992 and as subsequently amended (the "").  Ameriprise shall not assume any portion of the AXP KEL or the split-dollar insurance policies held by AXP thereunder.  Pursuant to the terms of the AXP KEL, Ameriprise Participants shall be treated thereunder as having terminated employment other than by reason of retirement.  The Parties shall agree as to the amount, if any, that AXP shall reimburse Ameriprise out of the proceeds AXP receives as a result of Ameriprise Participants purchasing the split-dollar insurance policies held on their lives or as a result of AXP's disposal of such split-dollar insurance policies.
AXP Split Dollar Arrangement
AXP KEL
                (b)           .  Ameriprise shall establish a key executive life insurance program that provides eligible Ameriprise Participants with term life insurance coverage in an amount equal to four times annual base salary, subject to a maximum of $1,500,000.  Such term life insurance coverage shall terminate upon an Ameriprise Participant's termination from active employment with the Ameriprise Group, subject to any conversion rights then available under the group policy.  In addition to such term life insurance coverage, for eligible Ameriprise Participants who were participants in the AXP KEL prior to April 1, 2003, Ameriprise shall provide a non-qualified deferred compensation benefit (the ""), either through the Ameriprise Financial Deferred Compensation Plan for Key Employees or through another non-qualified arrangement determined by Ameriprise, in an amount equal to the cash value that would have been payable to the Ameriprise Participant under the AXP KEL assuming that: (i) in the case of an Ameriprise Participant who was a participant in the AXP KEL prior to August 1, 2002, (A) the Ameriprise Participant had continued to participate in the AXP KEL through the date of his termination of employment with the Ameriprise Group and (B) premium payments on the split-dollar insurance policy held on the Ameriprise Participant's life under the AXP KEL had continued to be made after August 2002 and through the date of such Ameriprise Participant's termination of employment with the Ameriprise Group; or (ii) in the case of an Ameriprise Participant who became a participant in the AXP KEL after August 2002, (A) a split-dollar insurance policy had been purchased on the life of the Ameriprise Participant under the AXP KEL, (B) the Ameriprise Participant had continued to participate in the AXP KEL through the date of his termination of employment with the Ameriprise Group, and (C) premium payments on such hypothetical policy had been made through the date of his termination of employment with the Ameriprise Group.  The amount and terms of payment of the AMP KEL Cash Benefit shall be determined by Ameriprise in its sole
Ameriprise Arrangement
AMP KEL Cash Benefit
discretion and may be reduced by Ameriprise to reflect any compensation paid by Ameriprise to reimburse an Ameriprise Participant who elects to purchase from AXP the split-dollar insurance policy held on his life under the AXP KEL.
6.1           AMERICAN EXPRESS SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN
                (a)           .  Effective as of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise shall, or shall cause one of its Affiliates to, establish a non-qualified deferred compensation plan to benefit Ameriprise Participants who have accrued, or were eligible to accrue, benefits under the AXP SRP (the "") immediately prior to the Distribution Date.  Effective as of the Effective Time, Ameriprise hereby agrees to cause the Ameriprise SRP to assume responsibility for all Liabilities and fully perform, pay and discharge all obligations, when such obligations become due, of the AXP SRP with respect to all Ameriprise Participants therein.  With respect to each Delayed Transfer Employee who participated in the AXP SRP, effective as of such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, Ameriprise shall cause the Ameriprise SRP to assume, and to fully perform, pay and discharge, all Liabilities and obligations of the AXP SRP with respect to such Delayed Transfer Employee.  Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) shall be responsible for any and all Liabilities (including Liability for funding) and other obligations with respect to the Ameriprise SRP.
Establishment of Ameriprise SRP
Ameriprise SRP
                (b)           .  As of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through an Affiliate) shall cause the Ameriprise SRP to recognize and maintain all elections (including deferral, distribution and investment elections) and beneficiary designations with respect to Ameriprise Participants under the AXP SRP.  With respect to each Delayed Transfer Employee who participated in the AXP SRP, effective as of such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through an Affiliate) shall cause the Ameriprise SRP to recognize and maintain all elections (including deferral, distribution and investment elections) and beneficiary designations with respect to such Delayed Transfer Employee.
Continuation of Elections
                7.1           LONG-TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS.  This Article VII sets forth obligations and agreements between the Parties with respect to the treatment of outstanding long-term incentive awards held by Ameriprise Participants under the AXP Stock Plans.
7.2           TREATMENT OF OUTSTANDING AXP OPTIONS HELD BY AMERIPRISE EMPLOYEES.
(a)           .  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary (including, without limitation, Section 2.2 hereof), neither Ameriprise nor any member
Participating Company
of the Ameriprise Group that is a "participating company" (as such term is used in the AXP Stock Plans) in the AXP Stock Plans immediately prior to the Distribution Date shall cease to be a "participating company" in the AXP Stock Plans as a result of the Distribution with respect to outstanding awards held by Ameriprise Participants thereunder.  Furthermore, Ameriprise and any such member of the Ameriprise Group that is a "participating company" in the AXP Stock Plans immediately prior to the Distribution Date will continue to be a "participating company" in the AXP Stock Plans until such time as no AXP Option, share of AXP Restricted Stock or AXP LOI (including, without limitation, a Remaining AXP Option, Delayed Transfer AXP Option, share of Remaining AXP Restricted Stock, share of Delayed Transfer AXP Restricted Stock, Remaining AXP LOI and Delayed Transfer AXP LOI) held by an Ameriprise Participant remains outstanding or until such earlier time as may be mutually agreed to by the AXP Committee and the board of directors or other governing body of Ameriprise or such member of the Ameriprise Group.
(b)           .  Each option to purchase shares of AXP Common Stock (each, an "") outstanding under the AXP Stock Plans and held by an Ameriprise Participant as of the Distribution Date that is or would have become vested or exercisable, in accordance with its terms, by December 31, 2005 (the "") (i) had such Ameriprise Participant remained employed by AXP or its Affiliates until the Measurement Date or (ii) in accordance with the applicable retirement practices and policies of AXP had the Ameriprise Participant holding such AXP Option retired immediately prior to the Measurement Date, in each case assuming the Distribution had not occurred, shall remain an option on AXP Common Stock issued under the AXP Stock Plans (each such option, a "").   Each Remaining AXP Option shall be subject to the same terms and conditions after the Distribution as the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding AXP Option immediately prior to the Distribution, it being understood that by reason of Ameriprise and members of the Ameriprise Group each continuing to be a "participating company" in the AXP Stock Plans, the employment of an Ameriprise Participant who holds Remaining AXP Options shall not be considered terminated for purposes of the AXP Stock Plans as a result of the Distribution and such employment shall only be considered to terminate for purposes of the AXP Stock Plans when the employment of such Ameriprise Participant with the Ameriprise Group terminates.  The exercise price and number of shares subject to each Remaining AXP Option shall be adjusted in accordance with Section 424 of the Code.  As a result, (i) the number of shares of AXP Common Stock subject to such Remaining AXP Option shall be equal to the product of (x) the number of shares of AXP Common Stock subject to the corresponding AXP Option immediately prior to the Distribution Date and (y) the AXP Share Ratio, with fractional shares rounded down to the nearest whole share and (ii) the per-share exercise price of such Remaining AXP Option shall be equal to the product of (x) the per-share exercise price of the corresponding AXP Option immediately prior to the Distribution Date and (y) the AXP Price Ratio, rounded up to the nearest whole cent.
Vested AXP Options
AXP Option
Measurement Date
Remaining AXP Option
(c)           .  Each AXP Option outstanding under the AXP Stock Plans and held by an Ameriprise Participant as of the Distribution Date that would not be vested or treated as vested as of the Measurement Date, as determined in accordance with Section 7.2(b) above (each such AXP Option, an ""), shall be substituted with an option to purchase shares of Ameriprise Common Stock (each such option, an "") issued under the Ameriprise Stock Plan and subject to terms and conditions after the Distribution
Unvested AXP Options
Unvested AXP Option
Ameriprise Option
that are substantially similar to the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding Unvested AXP Option immediately prior to the Distribution.  The exercise price and number of shares subject to such Ameriprise Option shall be determined in accordance with Section 424 of the Code.  As a result, (i) the number of shares of Ameriprise Common Stock subject to each such Ameriprise Option shall be equal to the product of (x) the number of shares of AXP Common Stock subject to the corresponding Unvested AXP Option immediately prior to the Distribution Date and (y) the Ameriprise Share Ratio, with fractional shares rounded to the nearest whole share and (ii) the per-share exercise price of each such Ameriprise Option shall be equal to the product of (x) the per-share exercise price of the corresponding Unvested AXP Option immediately prior to the Distribution Date and (y) the Ameriprise Price Ratio, rounded up to the nearest whole cent.
(d)           .  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 7.2 to the contrary, all outstanding AXP Options held by Serial Severance Employees under the AXP Stock Plans as of the Distribution Date, regardless of whether or not vested as of the Distribution Date, shall be treated as Remaining AXP Options in accordance with Section 7.2(b) above.
Serial Severance Employees
(e)           .
Delayed Transfer Employees
(i)           Each AXP Option outstanding under the AXP Stock Plans and held by a Delayed Transfer Employee as of such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date that (A) vested on or prior to the Measurement Date or, in the event such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date occurs prior to the Measurement Date, would have become vested or exercisable, in accordance with its terms, by the Measurement Date had such Delayed Transfer Employee remained employed by AXP or its Affiliates until the Measurement Date or (B) that would have vested in accordance with the applicable retirement practices and policies of AXP had the Delayed Transfer Employee retired immediately prior to the Measurement Date, shall remain an option on AXP Common Stock issued under the AXP Stock Plans (each such option, a "").  Each Delayed Transfer AXP Option held by a Delayed Transfer Employee shall be subject to the same terms and conditions after such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date as the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding AXP Option immediately prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, it being understood that by reason of Ameriprise and members of the Ameriprise Group each continuing to be a "participating company" in the AXP Stock Plans, the employment of a Delayed Transfer Employee who holds Delayed Transfer AXP Options shall not be considered terminated for purposes of the AXP Stock Plans as a result of such Delayed Transfer Employee's transfer to the AMP Group in connection with the Distribution and such employment shall only be considered to terminate for purposes of the AXP Stock Plans when the employment of such Delayed Transfer Employee with the Ameriprise Group terminates.
Delayed Transfer AXP Option
(ii)          Each AXP Option outstanding under the AXP Stock Plans and held by a Delayed Transfer Employee as of such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date that was not vested or treated as vested as of the Measurement Date, as determined in accordance with Section 7.2(e)(i) above, shall be substituted with an option to purchase shares of Ameriprise Common Stock (each such option, a "") issued under the Ameriprise Stock Plan and subject to terms and conditions after such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date that are substantially similar to the terms and conditions applicable to
Delayed Transfer Ameriprise Option
the corresponding AXP Option immediately prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date.  The exercise price and number of shares subject to such Delayed Transfer Ameriprise Option shall be determined in accordance with Section 424 of the Code.  As a result, (i) the number of shares of Ameriprise Common Stock subject to each such Delayed Transfer Ameriprise Option shall be equal to the product of (x) the number of shares of AXP Common Stock subject to the corresponding AXP Option immediately prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date and (y) the Delayed Share Ratio, with fractional shares rounded to the nearest whole share and (ii) the per-share exercise price of each such Delayed Transfer Ameriprise Option shall be equal to the product of (x) the per-share exercise price of the corresponding AXP Option immediately prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date and (y) the Delayed Price Ratio, rounded up to the nearest whole cent.
(f)            .  The Parties acknowledge and agree that blackout periods may be implemented with respect to the Remaining AXP Options and Ameriprise Options for administrative reasons in accordance with the terms of the AXP Stock Plans or the Ameriprise Stock Plan, as applicable.
Restriction on Exercisability of Options
                7.3           TREATMENT OF OUTSTANDING AXP RESTRICTED STOCK.
                (a)           .  Each restricted share of AXP Common Stock ("") outstanding under the AXP Stock Plans and held by an Ameriprise Participant as of the Distribution Date that would have become vested, in accordance with its terms, by the Measurement Date (i) had such Ameriprise Participant remained employed by AXP or its Affiliates until the Measurement Date or (ii) in accordance with the applicable retirement practices and policies of AXP had the Ameriprise Participant holding such AXP Restricted Stock retired immediately prior to the Measurement Date, in each case assuming the Distribution had not occurred, shall remain a share of AXP Restricted Stock issued under the AXP Stock Plans (each such share of AXP Restricted Stock, "").  Each share of Remaining AXP Restricted Stock shall be subject to the same terms and conditions after the Distribution as the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding share of AXP Restricted Stock immediately prior to the Distribution, it being understood that by reason of Ameriprise and members of the Ameriprise Group each continuing to be a "participating company" in the AXP Stock Plans, the employment of an Ameriprise Participant who holds such shares of Remaining AXP Restricted Stock shall not be considered to have terminated for purposes of the AXP Stock Plans as a result of the Distribution and such employment shall only be considered to terminate for purposes of the AXP Stock Plans when the employment of such Ameriprise Participant with the Ameriprise Group terminates.  The number of shares of Remaining AXP Restricted Stock held by an Ameriprise Participant shall be adjusted in a manner so that the number of shares of Remaining AXP Restricted Stock held by an Ameriprise Participant immediately following the Distribution Date will equal the product of (x) the number of shares of corresponding AXP Restricted Stock held by such Ameriprise Participant immediately prior to the Distribution Date and (y) the AXP Share Ratio, with fractional shares rounded to the nearest whole share.
AXP Restricted Stock Vesting by the Measurement Date
AXP Restricted Stock
Remaining AXP Restricted Stock
                (b)           .  Except as otherwise expressly provided in any written agreement entered into between AXP and any Ameriprise Participant and provided to Ameriprise, each share of AXP Restricted Stock outstanding under the AXP Stock Plans held by
Unvested AXP Restricted Stock
an Ameriprise Employee as of the Distribution Date that would not be vested or treated as vested as of the Measurement Date, as determined in accordance with Section 7.3(a) above, shall be substituted with restricted shares of Ameriprise Common Stock ("") issued under the Ameriprise Stock Plan and subject to terms and conditions after the Distribution that are substantially similar to the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding shares of AXP Restricted Stock immediately prior to the Distribution.  The number of shares of Ameriprise Restricted Stock to which an Ameriprise Participant is entitled pursuant to this Section 7.3(b) will equal the product of (x) the number of shares of corresponding AXP Restricted Stock held by such Ameriprise Participant immediately prior to the Distribution Date and (y) the Ameriprise Share Ratio, with fractional shares rounded to the nearest whole share.
Ameriprise Restricted Stock
                (c)           .  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 7.3 to the contrary, all outstanding shares of AXP Restricted Stock held by Serial Severance Employees under the AXP Stock Plans as of the Distribution Date, regardless of when such AXP Restricted Shares would otherwise vest, shall be treated as Remaining AXP Restricted Stock in accordance with Section 7.3(a) above.
Serial Severance Employees
                (d)           .
Delayed Transfer Employees
                                (i)            Each share of AXP Restricted Stock outstanding under the AXP Stock Plans and held by a Delayed Transfer Employee as of such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date that would have become vested (A) in accordance with the applicable retirement practices and policies of AXP had the Delayed Transfer Employee retired immediately prior to the Measurement Date or (B) in the event such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date occurs prior to the Measurement Date, would have become vested, in accordance with its terms, by the Measurement Date had such Delayed Transfer Employee remained employed by AXP or its Affiliates until the Measurement Date, shall remain a share of AXP Restricted Stock issued under the AXP Stock Plans (each such share of AXP Restricted Stock, "").  Each share of Delayed Transfer AXP Restricted Stock shall be subject to the same terms and conditions after a Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date as the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding share of AXP Restricted Stock immediately prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, it being understood that by reason of Ameriprise and members of the Ameriprise Group each continuing to be a "participating company" in the AXP Stock Plans, the employment of a Delayed Transfer Employee who holds shares of Delayed Transfer AXP Restricted Stock shall not be considered terminated for purposes of the AXP Stock Plans as a result of such Delayed Transfer Employee's transfer to the AMP Group in connection with the Distribution and such employment shall only be considered to terminate for purposes of the AXP Stock Plans when the employment of such Delayed Transfer Employee with the Ameriprise Group terminates.
Delayed Transfer AXP Restricted Stock
                                (ii)           Each share of AXP Restricted Stock outstanding under the AXP Stock Plans held by a Delayed Transfer Employee as of such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date that would not be treated as vested in accordance with Section 7.3(d)(i) above, shall be substituted with restricted shares of Ameriprise Common Stock ("") issued under the Ameriprise Stock Plan and subject to terms and conditions after such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date that are substantially similar to the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding shares of AXP Restricted Stock immediately
Delayed Transfer Ameriprise Restricted Stock
prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date.  The number of shares of Delayed Transfer Ameriprise Restricted Stock to which a Delayed Transfer Employee is entitled pursuant to this Section 7.3(d)(ii) will equal the product of (x) the number of shares of corresponding AXP Restricted Stock held by such Delayed Transfer Employee immediately prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date and (y) the Delayed Share Ratio, with fractional shares rounded to the nearest whole share.
                7.4           TREATMENT OF OUTSTANDING LETTERS OF INTENT.
                (a)           .  Each letter of intent evidencing a promise to deliver shares of AXP Common Stock in the future (each, an "") outstanding under the AXP Stock Plans and held by an Ameriprise Participant as of the Distribution Date that would have become vested, in accordance with its terms, by the Measurement Date (i) had such Ameriprise Participant remained employed by AXP or its Affiliates until the Measurement Date or (ii) in accordance with the applicable retirement practices and policies of AXP had the Ameriprise Participant holding such AXP LOI retired immediately prior to the Measurement Date, in each case assuming the Distribution had not occurred, shall remain an AXP LOI issued under the AXP Stock Plans (each such AXP LOI, a "").  Each Remaining AXP LOI shall be subject to the same terms and conditions after the Distribution as the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding AXP LOI immediately prior to the Distribution, it being understood that by reason of Ameriprise and members of the Ameriprise Group each continuing to be a "participating company" in the AXP Stock Plans, the employment of an Ameriprise Participant who holds Remaining AXP LOIs shall not be considered to have terminated for purposes of the AXP Stock Plans as a result of the Distribution and such employment shall only be considered to terminate for purposes of the AXP Stock Plans when the employment of such Ameriprise Participant with the Ameriprise Group terminates.  The number of shares of AXP Common Stock to which a Remaining AXP LOI held by an Ameriprise Participant relates shall be adjusted to equal the product of (x) the number of shares of AXP Common Stock to which the corresponding AXP LOI relates immediately prior to the Distribution Date and (y) the AXP Share Ratio, with fractional shares rounded to the nearest whole share.
AXP LOIs Vesting by the Measurement Date
AXP LOI
Remaining AXP LOI
                (b)           .  Except as otherwise expressly provided in any written agreement entered into between AXP and any Ameriprise Participant and provided to Ameriprise, each AXP LOI outstanding under the AXP Stock Plans held by an Ameriprise Employee as of the Distribution Date that would not be vested or treated as vested as of the Measurement Date, as determined in accordance with Section 7.4(a) above, shall be substituted with a letter of intent evidencing a promise to deliver shares of Ameriprise Common Stock (each, an "") issued under the Ameriprise Stock Plan and subject to terms and conditions after the Distribution that are substantially similar to the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding AXP LOI immediately prior to the Distribution.  The number of shares of Ameriprise Common Stock to which an Ameriprise LOI relates will equal the product of (x) the number of shares of AXP Common Stock to which the corresponding AXP LOI relates immediately prior to the Distribution Date and (y) the Ameriprise Share Ratio, with fractional shares rounded to the nearest whole share.
Unvested AXP LOIs
Ameriprise LOI
                (c)           .  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 7.4 to the contrary, all outstanding AXP LOIs held by Serial Severance Employees under the AXP Stock Plans as of the Distribution Date, regardless of when such AXP LOIs would otherwise vest, shall be treated as Remaining AXP LOIs in accordance with Section 7.4(a) above.
Serial Severance Employees
                (d)           .
Delayed Transfer Employees
                                (i)            Each AXP LOI outstanding under the AXP Stock Plans and held by a Delayed Transfer Employee as of such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date that would have become vested (A) in accordance with the applicable retirement practices and policies of AXP had the Delayed Transfer Employee retired immediately prior to the Measurement Date or (B) in the event such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date occurs prior to the Measurement Date, would have become vested, in accordance with its terms, by the Measurement Date had such Delayed Transfer Employee remained employed by AXP or its Affiliates until the Measurement Date, shall remain an AXP LOI issued under the AXP Stock Plans (each such AXP LOI, a "").  Each Delayed Transfer AXP LOI shall be subject to the same terms and conditions after a Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date as the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding AXP LOI immediately prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, it being understood that by reason of Ameriprise and members of the Ameriprise Group each continuing to be a "participating company" in the AXP Stock Plans, the employment of a Delayed Transfer Employee who holds any Delayed Transfer AXP LOIs shall not be considered terminated for purposes of the AXP Stock Plans as a result of such Delayed Transfer Employee's transfer to the AMP Group in connection with the Distribution and such employment shall only be considered to terminate for purposes of the AXP Stock Plans when the employment of such Delayed Transfer Employee with the Ameriprise Group terminates.
Delayed Transfer AXP LOI
                                (ii)           Each AXP LOI outstanding under the AXP Stock Plans held by a Delayed Transfer Employee as of such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date that would not be treated as vested, as determined in accordance with Section 7.4(d)(i) above, shall be substituted with a letter of intent evidencing a promise to deliver shares of Ameriprise Common Stock (each, a "") issued under the Ameriprise Stock Plan and subject to terms and conditions after such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date that are substantially similar to the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding AXP LOI immediately prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date.  The number of shares of Ameriprise Common Stock to which such a Delayed Transfer Ameriprise LOI relates will equal the product of (x) the number of shares of AXP Common Stock to which the corresponding AXP LOI relates immediately prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date and (y) the Delayed Share Ratio, with fractional shares rounded to the nearest whole share.
Delayed Transfer Ameriprise LOI
                7.5           TREATMENT OF OUTSTANDING PORTFOLIO GRANTS.
(a)           .  Effective as of the Effective Time, Ameriprise shall assume responsibility for all Liabilities and fully perform, pay and discharge all obligations, when such obligations become due, relating to the Outstanding PG Awards held, as of the Distribution Date, by Ameriprise Participants (such assumed Outstanding PG Awards, the "").
Assumption of Liability
Ameriprise PG Awards
(b)           .  Ameriprise PG Awards shall be issued pursuant to the Ameriprise Stock Plan.  Except with respect to performance goals and targets, Ameriprise PG Awards shall be subject to terms and conditions after the Distribution that are substantially similar to the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding Outstanding PG Awards immediately prior to the Distribution.  With respect to the performance goals and targets relating to each of the Ameriprise PG Awards, such performance goals and targets shall be adjusted by Ameriprise, in its sole discretion, in accordance with their terms (including, without limitation, the terms of the Ameriprise Stock Plan and any related award agreement).
Terms and Conditions
7.6           DETRIMENTAL CONDUCT PROVISIONS.  Ameriprise hereby acknowledges that any Detrimental Conduct Provisions applicable to the Remaining AXP Options, Remaining AXP Restricted Stock, or Remaining AXP LOIs held by Ameriprise Participants and any Detrimental Conduct Provisions applicable to Delayed Transfer AXP Options, Delayed Transfer AXP Restricted Stock or Delayed Transfer AXP LOIs held by Delayed Transfer Employees shall continue in full force and effect following the Distribution.  In addition, Ameriprise agrees to use reasonable commercial efforts to provide AXP with any Information reasonably requested by AXP in connection with the enforcement of such Detrimental Conduct Provisions. 
Furthermore, the Parties acknowledge that with respect to any Ameriprise Participant who holds Remaining AXP Options, Remaining AXP Restricted Stock, or Remaining AXP LOIs and any Delayed Transfer Employee who holds
Delayed Transfer AXP Options, Delayed Transfer AXP Restricted Stock or Delayed Transfer AXP LOIs,
AXP will waive any violation of the Detrimental Conduct Provisions applicable to such awards that would otherwise be caused by the employment, in and of itself, of such holder with Ameriprise or any member of the Ameriprise Group.
7.7           SEC REGISTRATION.  The Parties mutually agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain effective registration statements with the SEC with respect to the long-term incentive awards described in this Article VII, to the extent any such registration statement is required by applicable Law.
7.8           SAVINGS CLAUSE.  The Parties hereby acknowledge that the provisions of this Article VII are intended to achieve certain tax, legal and accounting objectives and, in the event such objectives are not achieved, the Parties agree to negotiate in good faith regarding such other actions that may be necessary or appropriate to achieve such objectives.
ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION MATTERS; SEVERANCE
8.1          
ANNUAL INCENTIVE AWARDS.
(a)           .  Effective as of the Effective Time, Ameriprise shall assume or retain, as applicable, responsibility for all Liabilities and fully perform, pay and discharge all obligations, when such obligations become due, relating to any annual incentive awards that any Ameriprise Participant is eligible to receive with respect to calendar year 2005 and, effective as of the Effective Time, AXP shall have no obligation with respect to any such annual incentive award.
Ameriprise Assumption of Annual Incentive Liability
(b)           .  Effective as of the Effective Time, AXP shall assume or retain, as applicable, responsibility for all Liabilities and fully perform, pay and discharge all obligations relating to any annual incentive awards that any AXP Participant is eligible to receive with respect to calendar year 2005 and, effective as of the Effective Time, Ameriprise shall have no obligation with respect thereto.
AXP Assumption of Annual Incentive Liability
                8.2           DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
(a)           .  Effective as of the Effective Time, Ameriprise shall assume or retain, as applicable, responsibility for all Liabilities and fully perform, pay and discharge all obligations, when such obligations become due, relating to the deferred compensation accounts of Ameriprise Participants under the AXP Deferred Compensation Plans as of the Distribution Date.  Such deferred compensation accounts shall be subject to terms and conditions that are substantially similar to the terms and conditions of the AXP Deferred Compensation Plans as in effect immediately prior to the Distribution Date, it being understood that the crediting rates applicable to each such deferred compensation account shall be determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable Ameriprise Deferred Compensation Plan and the principles set forth on Schedule I attached hereto.  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 8.2(a) to the contrary, with respect to those Ameriprise Participants who, as of the Distribution Date, could have elected to retire in accordance with the applicable retirement practices and policies of AXP and who previously were employed by CHQ, AEB or TRS (the ""), AXP shall retain all Liabilities (including future interest accruals) and fully perform, pay and discharge all obligations related to that portion of the deferred compensation accounts of the AXP DC Participants under the AXP Deferred Compensation Plans that was deferred by each AXP DC Participant while employed by CHQ, AEB or TRS (the "").  Following the Distribution, the AXP DC Participant Accounts shall continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the AXP Deferred Compensation Plans, as in effect from time to time, it being understood that the employment of an AXP DC Participant shall not be considered to have terminated as a result of the Distribution, and such employment shall only be considered to terminate for purposes of the AXP Deferred Compensation Plans when the employment of such AXP DC Participant with the Ameriprise Group terminates in accordance with the terms of the Ameriprise Deferred Compensation Plan.  Ameriprise shall retain all Liabilities (including future interest accruals) and fully perform, pay and discharge all obligations related to that portion of the deferred compensation accounts of the AXP DC Participants under the AXP Deferred Compensation Plans that was deferred by each AXP DC Participant while employed by the Ameriprise Group.
Outstanding Deferred Compensation Liabilities
AXP DC Participants
AXP DC Participant Accounts
(b)           .  All elections by Ameriprise Participants with respect to outstanding deferred compensation account balances retained or assumed by Ameriprise in accordance with this Section 8.2 that were controlling under the terms of the applicable AXP Deferred Compensation Plan prior to the Distribution shall continue in effect with respect to such account balances until a new election that by its terms supersedes such original election is made by such Ameriprise Participant in accordance with applicable Law and the terms and conditions applicable to such account balances.
Continuing Elections
(c)           .  In accordance with Q&A 20 of Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, Ameriprise intends to offer all Ameriprise Participants who have
2005 Termination Election
outstanding deferred compensation account balances under any of the AXP Deferred Compensation Plans that are to be retained or assumed by Ameriprise in accordance with this Section 8.2 the right to irrevocably elect to terminate participation in such plans and to receive all such outstanding deferred compensation account balances in a lump sum cash payment to be made by Ameriprise as soon as reasonably practicable after such Ameriprise Participant properly files such election with Ameriprise, but in no event later than December 31, 2005.
8.3           AMERIPRISE KEY EMPLOYEE RETENTION AWARDS.  Ameriprise hereby acknowledges and agrees that it shall have full responsibility with respect to any Liabilities and the payment or performance of any obligations arising out of or relating to the arrangements listed on Schedule J attached hereto.
8.4          
SEVERANCE PLANS
.
(a)           .  Effective as of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise shall take all steps necessary to establish (i) the Ameriprise Financial Senior Executive Severance Plan for those Ameriprise Employees who, immediately prior to the Distribution Date, were eligible to participate in the American Express Senior Executive Severance Plan and (ii) the Ameriprise Financial Severance Pay Plan for all Ameriprise Employees who, immediately prior to the Distribution Date, were eligible to participate in the American Express Severance Pay Plan (the Ameriprise Senior Executive Severance Plan and the Ameriprise Severance Pay Plan referred to herein collectively as the "").
Establishment of Ameriprise Severance Plans
Ameriprise Severance Plans
(b)           .  Effective as of the Effective Time, Ameriprise shall assume or retain, as applicable, responsibility for all Liabilities and fully perform, pay and discharge all obligations, when such obligations become due, relating to any severance benefit to which an Ameriprise Participant is entitled under an AXP Severance Plan as of the Distribution Date.
Assumption of Severance Liabilities
(c)           .  With respect to any Ameriprise Participant or Delayed Transfer Employee who becomes eligible to receive severance benefits pursuant to an Ameriprise Severance Plan during the period commencing on the Close of the Distribution Date and ending on the first anniversary of the Distribution Date, the applicable Ameriprise Severance Plan shall provide to such Ameriprise Participant an amount of severance benefit that is not less than the number of weeks of pay that such Ameriprise Participant would have received under the corresponding AXP Severance Plan as in effect immediately prior to the Distribution Date.
Severance Benefits
(d)           . AXP and Ameriprise acknowledge and agree that the transactions contemplated by the Separation and Distribution Agreement will not constitute a termination of employment of any Ameriprise Participant for purposes of any policy, plan, program or agreement of AXP or Ameriprise or any member of the AXP Group or Ameriprise Group that provides for the payment of severance, separation pay, salary continuation or similar benefits in the event of a termination of employment.
Effect of the Separation on Severance
8.5           WORKERS' COMPENSATION LIABILITIES.
(a)           .  Except as set forth below, all workers' compensation Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any claim by an Ameriprise Employee or Former Ameriprise Employee that results from an accident, incident or event occurring, or from an occupational disease which becomes manifest, before the Effective Time shall be retained by Ameriprise.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Ameriprise shall not assume or retain any workers' compensation Liability relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any claim by an Ameriprise Employee that results from an accident, incident or event occurring, or from an occupational disease which becomes manifest, while such Ameriprise Employee was employed by any member of the AXP Group (such a claim, an "").  All workers' compensation Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from (i) any AXP Retained Claim or (ii) any claim by an AXP Employee or Former AXP Employee that results from an accident, incident, or event occurring, or from an occupational disease which becomes manifest before the Effective Time shall be retained by AXP.
Pre-Distribution Date Claims
AXP Retained Claim
(b)           .  All workers' compensation Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any claim by an Ameriprise Employee or Former Ameriprise Employee that results from an accident, incident or event occurring, or from an occupational disease which becomes manifest, on or after the Effective Time shall be retained by Ameriprise.  All workers' compensation Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any claim by an AXP Employee or Former AXP Employee that results from an accident, incident or event occurring, or from an occupational disease which becomes manifest, on or after the Effective Time shall be retained by AXP.
Post-Distribution Date Claims
(c)           .  All workers' compensation Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any claim by an Ameriprise Delayed Transfer Employee that results from an accident, incident or event occurring, or from an occupational disease which becomes manifest, before such Ameriprise Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date shall be assumed or retained, as applicable, by Ameriprise.  All workers' compensation Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any claim by an AXP Delayed Transfer Employee that results from an accident, incident or event occurring, or from an occupational disease which becomes manifest, before such AXP Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date shall be assumed or retained, as applicable, by AXP.  All workers' compensation Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any claim by a Delayed Transfer Employee that results from an accident, incident or event occurring, or from an occupational disease which becomes manifest, on or after such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date shall be retained or assumed, as applicable, by Ameriprise.  For purposes of this Section 8.5(c), (i) "Ameriprise Delayed Transfer Employee" means any Delayed Transfer Employee who, prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, devotes a majority of his or her time to performing services for Ameriprise, and (ii) "AXP Delayed Transfer Employee" means any Delayed Transfer Employee who, prior to such Delayed Transfer Employee's Transfer Date, devotes a majority of his or her time to performing services for AXP, in each case as determined in good faith by the Parties.
Delayed Transfer Employees
(d)           .  For purposes of this Section 8.5, a compensable injury shall be deemed to be sustained upon the occurrence of the event giving rise to eligibility for workers' compensation benefits or an occupation disease becomes manifest, as the case may be.  AXP and Ameriprise shall cooperate in good faith with respect to the notification to appropriate
General
governmental agencies of the Distribution and the issuance of new, or the transfer of existing, workers' compensation insurance policies and claims handling contracts.
8.6           SECTION 162(m).  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary (including, without limitation, the treatment of outstanding long-term incentive awards and annual incentive awards as described herein), the Parties agree to negotiate in good faith regarding any alternative treatment of any outstanding long-term incentive award, annual incentive award or other compensation to which any Ameriprise Participant who is a "covered employee" of Ameriprise (within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code) may be entitled to ensure that the payment of such long-term incentive award, annual incentive award or other compensation is deductible by the Party responsible for the payment thereof or otherwise entitled to the deduction related thereto.
ARTICLE IX
UK PENSION ISSUES
9.1
                                
UK PENSION ASSET TRANSFER
.
(a)           .  Effective as of the Distribution Date, Ameriprise shall, or shall cause one or more members of the Ameriprise Group to, establish an occupational defined benefit pension plan to provide retirement benefits to Ameriprise Participants who immediately prior to the Distribution Date were participants in, or entitled to present or future benefits (whether or not vested) under, the AXP UK Plan (such defined benefit pension plan, the "" and such Ameriprise Participants, the "").  For the avoidance of doubt, Ameriprise shall procure that each of the Ameriprise Employees who was a member of the AXP UK Plan immediately prior to the Distribution Date is invited to become a member of the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan with effect from the Distribution Date.  Ameriprise undertakes to ensure that the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan (i) is an exempt approved scheme under UK Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, (ii) is a scheme which is contracted out on a reference scheme basis, (iii) is capable of receiving the Transfer Amount without prejudicing the status of the AXP UK Plan as an exempt approved scheme and without requiring the consent of the Ameriprise UK Plan Participants to the transfer, and (iv) for a period of not less than twelve (12) months from the Distribution Date, provides benefits in respect of the future service of each Ameriprise Employee who is an Ameriprise UK Plan Participant which are, in the opinion of the AXP UK Actuary, substantially comparable in the aggregate to the benefits provided by the AXP UK Scheme as in effect immediately prior to the Distribution Date.
Establishment of Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan
Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan
Ameriprise UK Plan Participants
(b)           .  Effective as of the Payment Date, Ameriprise (acting directly or through its Affiliates) hereby agrees to cause the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan to accept the Transfer Amount in full and final settlement of all claims against the AXP UK Plan in respect of the Ameriprise UK Plan Participants (whose consent shall not be required).  Subject to the payment of the Transfer Amount in accordance with Section 9.1(c) below, Ameriprise shall procure that the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan shall provide benefits in respect of each Ameriprise UK Plan Participant which are, in the case of any pensioner, deferred pensioner or pension credit member, identical to those provided under the AXP UK
Assumption of AXP UK Plan Liabilities
Plan to such Ameriprise UK Plan Participant immediately prior to the Distribution Date and otherwise in respect of pensionable service (including transfer credits) of each Ameriprise UK Plan Participant at least equal to those required to allow the rights and entitlements of the Ameriprise UK Plan Participants in the AXP UK Plan to be transferred to the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan without consent in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 12 of The Occupational Pension Schemes (Preservation of Benefit) Regulations 1991 and actuarial guidance note GN16 (as either may be in force at the Payment Date).
(c)           .
Transfer of AXP UK Plan Assets
                (i)            As soon as reasonably practicable following the Distribution Date, AXP shall cause the AXP UK Actuary to determine the UK Transfer Amount.  Within thirty (30) days of the calculation of the UK Transfer Amount by the AXP UK Actuary, the Ameriprise UK Actuary shall verify and agree to such UK Transfer Amount.  AXP and Ameriprise undertake to procure that all such Information as shall be reasonably required by the AXP UK Actuary and the Ameriprise UK Actuary for the purpose of calculating and verifying the UK Transfer Amount shall be promptly provided to them and that all such Information shall (to the best of their knowledge and belief) be true, complete and accurate in all material respects as of the date the Information is required for the purposes of this Section 9.1.  If the AXP UK Actuary and the Ameriprise UK Actuary are unable to agree to the UK Transfer Amount within thirty (30) days of its calculation by the AXP UK Actuary, the matter shall be referred to an independent actuary in accordance with Section 9.1(e) hereof.
                (ii)           The Transfer Amount is only payable if the following conditions have been and remain satisfied: (A) the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan has been established as an exempt approved and contracted out scheme and Ameriprise has delivered to AXP a copy of (1) the initial letter from HM Customs and Revenue confirming such approval and (2) the contracting out certificate issued by the National Insurance Services to Pensions Industry with respect to the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan; (B) HM Customs and Revenue have consented to the transfer of the Transfer Amount; (C) the AXP UK Actuary has issued a GN16 certificate in respect of the transfer of the Transfer Amount; (D) the requirements of Regulation 12 of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Preservation of Benefit) Regulations 1991 are satisfied (including any notice requirements); and (E) the UK Transfer Amount has been agreed or determined in accordance with this Section 9.1.
                (iii)          Subject to satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 9.1(c)(ii) above, AXP shall use all reasonable endeavours to procure that the AXP UK Plan shall, on the Payment Date, transfer the Transfer Amount to the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan such assets as the respective plans may agree, the mid-market value of which is equal to the Transfer Amount.  To the extent the AXP UK Plan and the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan are unable to agree to the appropriate asset transfer, cash equal to the Transfer Amount (reduced by 5% to cover encashment costs) shall be transferred in full settlement and satisfaction of the obligations of AXP and the AXP UK Plan pursuant to this Section 9.1.
(d)           .  Without regard to whether such funding is required by applicable Law, Ameriprise shall ensure that the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan will be maintained at (or
Funding
returned to) a fully funded (100%) position as determined on a "PBO" basis within five (5) years of the Distribution Date.
(e)           .  Any disagreement or dispute between the AXP UK Actuary and the Ameriprise UK Actuary concerning any matter to be agreed to by them under this Section 9.1 shall be referred to an independent actuary for determination.  The Parties shall jointly appoint the independent actuary.  If the Parties fail to reach agreement on the appointment of an independent actuary, either AXP or Ameriprise may request the President for the time being of the Institute of Actuaries to nominate an independent actuary, the Parties shall then appoint such nominee.  The determination and certificate of the independent actuary shall (in the absence of clear or manifest error) be final and binding on the Parties.  In addition, the Parties shall comply with and shall respectively procure that the AXP UK Plan and the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan and their respective agents comply with any directions of the independent actuary made to facilitate his investigation or determination.  The costs and fees of the independent actuary shall be paid one half by AXP and one half by Ameriprise unless the independent actuary determines some other division between the Parties (such determination to be final and binding).
Independent Actuary
(f)            .  Nothing in this Section 9.1 shall apply to AVCs or to the benefits secured by them.  However, AXP will use all reasonable endeavours to procure that the AXP UK Plan will transfer the assets representing the Ameriprise UK Plan Participants' AVCs to the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan.  Ameriprise will ensure that the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan provides benefits for the Ameriprise UK Plan Participants which are equivalent to those assets.
AVCs
(g)           .  Ameriprise shall not (and shall procure that its Affiliates shall not) encourage or assist or initiate or facilitate any action for the purpose of requiring the AXP UK Plan to pay an amount larger than the Transfer Amount to the Ameriprise UK Retirement Plan.
No Assistance
10.1         GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION.  Article IV of the Separation and Distribution Agreement applies to this Agreement as if such Article were set forth herein and all references to "Agreement" in such Article IV shall be deemed to be references to this Agreement.
11.1         SHARING OF INFORMATION
.  AXP and Ameriprise (acting directly or through their respective Affiliates) shall provide to the other and their respective agents and vendors all Information as the other may reasonably request to enable the requesting Party to administer efficiently and accurately each of its Benefit Plans and to determine the scope of, as well as fulfill, its obligations under this Agreement.  Such Information shall, to the extent reasonably practicable, be provided in the format and at the times and places requested, but in no
event shall the Party providing such Information be obligated to incur any out-of-pocket expenses not reimbursed by the Party making such request or make such Information available outside of its normal business hours and premises.  Any Information shared or exchanged pursuant to this Agreement shall be subject to the same confidentiality requirements set forth in the Separation and Distribution Agreement.  The Parties also hereby agree to enter into any business associate agreements that may be required for the sharing of any Information pursuant to this Agreement to comply with the requirements of HIPAA.
11.2         REASONABLE EFFORTS/COOPERATION
.  Each of the Parties hereto will use its commercially reasonable efforts to promptly take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Laws and regulations to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including, without limitation, adopting plans or plan amendments.  Each of the Parties hereto shall cooperate fully on any issue relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement for which the other Party seeks a determination letter or private letter ruling from the IRS, an advisory opinion from the DOL or any other filing, consent or approval with respect to or by a Governmental Authority.
11.3         EMPLOYER RIGHTS.  Subject to Ameriprise's obligations pursuant to Section 2.3 of this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit Ameriprise or any Ameriprise Affiliate from amending, modifying or terminating any Ameriprise Benefit Plan at any time within its sole discretion.  In addition, nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit AXP or any AXP Affiliate from amending, modifying or terminating any AXP Benefit Plan at any time within its sole discretion.
11.4         NON-TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT; NO THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARIES
.  Except as expressly provided for in this Agreement or the Separation and Distribution Agreement, no provision of this Agreement or the Separation and Distribution Agreement shall be construed to create any right, or accelerate entitlement, to any compensation or benefit whatsoever on the part of any AXP Employee or Ameriprise Employee or other future, present, or former employee of any member of the AXP Group or Ameriprise Group under any AXP Benefit Plan or Ameriprise Benefit Plan or otherwise.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as expressly provided in this Agreement, the occurrence of the Distribution alone shall not cause any employee to be deemed to have incurred a termination of employment which entitles such individual to the commencement of benefits under any of the AXP Benefit Plans.  Furthermore, this Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.  Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other person or persons any rights, benefits or remedies of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement.   Furthermore, nothing in this Agreement is intended to confer upon any employee or former employee of AXP, Ameriprise or either of their respective Affiliates any right to continued employment, or any recall or similar rights to an individual on layoff or any type of approved leave.
11.5         CONSENT OF THIRD PARTIES
.  If any provision of this Agreement is dependent on the Consent of any third party and such consent is withheld, the Parties hereto shall use their reasonable best efforts to implement the applicable provisions of this Agreement to the fullest extent practicable.  If any provision of this Agreement cannot be implemented due to the
failure of such third party to consent, the Parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to implement the provision in a mutually satisfactory manner.
11.6         ACCESS TO EMPLOYEES.  Following the Distribution Date, AXP and Ameriprise shall, or shall cause each of their respective Affiliates to, make available to each other those of their employees who may reasonably be needed in order to defend or prosecute any legal or administrative action (other than a legal action between AXP and AMP) to which any employee, director or Benefit Plan of the AXP Group or Ameriprise Group is a party and which relates to their respective Benefit Plans prior to the Distribution Date.  The Party to whom an employee is made available in accordance with this Section 11.6 shall pay or reimburse the other Party for all reasonable expenses which may be incurred by such employee in connection therewith, including, without limitation, all reasonable travel, lodging, and meal expenses, but excluding any amount for such employee's time spent in connection herewith.
11.7         BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION/RELEASE OF INFORMATION/RIGHT TO REIMBURSEMENT.  To the extent permitted by applicable Law and except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement, all beneficiary designations, authorizations for the release of Information and rights to reimbursement made by or relating to Ameriprise Participants under AXP Benefit Plans shall be transferred to and be in full force and effect under the corresponding Ameriprise Benefit Plans until such beneficiary designations, authorizations or rights are replaced or revoked by, or no longer apply, to the relevant Ameriprise Participant.
11.8         NOT A CHANGE IN CONTROL.  The Parties hereto acknowledge and agree that the transactions contemplated by the Separation and Distribution Agreement and this Agreement do not constitute a "change in control" for purposes of any AXP Benefit Plan or Ameriprise Benefit Plan.
12.1         EFFECT IF DISTRIBUTION DOES NOT OCCUR
.  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Separation and Distribution Agreement is terminated prior to the Effective Time, then all actions and events that are, under this Agreement, to be taken or occur effective immediately prior to, as of or following the Distribution Date, or otherwise in connection with the Separation, shall not be taken or occur except to the extent specifically agreed to in writing by AXP and Ameriprise and neither Party shall have any Liability or further obligation to the other Party under this Agreement.
12.2         RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES
.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed by the Parties or any third party as creating the relationship of principal and agent, partnership or joint venture between the Parties, it being understood and agreed that no provision contained herein, and no act of the Parties, shall be deemed to create any relationship between the Parties other than the relationship set forth herein.
12.3         AFFILIATES
.  Each of AXP and Ameriprise shall cause to be performed, and hereby guarantees the performance of, all actions, agreements and obligations set forth in this Agreement to be performed by each of their Affiliates, respectively.
12.4         NOTICES
.  All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given to a Party when (a) delivered to the appropriate address by hand or by nationally recognized overnight courier service (costs prepaid); (b) sent by facsimile with confirmation of transmission by the transmitting equipment; or (c) received or rejected by the addressee, if sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, in each case to the following addresses and facsimile numbers and marked to the attention of the person (by name or title) designated below (or to such other address, facsimile number or person as a Party may designate by notice to the other Parties):
(a)           if to AXP, to:
American Express Company 200 Vesey Street New York, New York 10285-4905 Attention:  Gilbert E. Ahye Fax:  (212) 640-3784
with copies to:
American Express Company 200 Vesey Street New York, New York 10285-4905 Attn:  General Counsel Fax:  (212) 640-0388
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP One Liberty Plaza New York, New York 10006 Attention:  A. Richard Susko, Esq. Fax:  (212) 225-3999
and
Harter, Secrest & Emery LLP 1600 Bausch and Lomb Place Rochester, New York 14604 Attention:  Paul W. Holloway, Esq. Fax: (585) 232-2152
(b)           if to Ameriprise, to:
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 1546 Ameriprise Financial Center Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474 Attention:  Walter Berman Fax: (612) 678-4945
                                with a copy to:
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 1546 Ameriprise Financial Center Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474 Attention:  General Counsel Fax: (612) 678-1491
12.5         ENTIRE AGREEMENT
.  This Agreement, the Separation and Distribution Agreement, and each other Ancillary Agreement, including any annexes, schedules and exhibits hereto and thereto, as well as any other agreements and documents referred to herein and therein, shall together constitute the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all prior negotiations, agreements and understandings of the Parties of any nature, whether oral or written, with respect to such subject matter.
12.6         AMENDMENTS AND WAIVERS.  This Agreement may not be modified or amended except by an instrument or instruments in writing signed by an authorized officer of each Party.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, any failure of any of the Parties to comply with any obligation, covenant, agreement or condition herein may be waived by the Party entitled to the benefits thereof only by a written instrument signed by an authorized officer of the Party granting such waiver, but such waiver or failure to insist upon strict compliance with such obligation, covenant, agreement or condition shall not operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other failure.
12.7         GOVERNING LAW.  This Agreement and any dispute arising out of, in connection with or relating to this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to the conflicts of laws principles thereof.
12.8         HEADINGS.  The article, section, paragraph and other headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
12.9         COUNTERPARTS.  This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.
12.10       ASSIGNMENT.  This Agreement may not be assigned by either Party without the written consent of the other Party.  No such assignment shall relieve either Party of any of its rights and obligations hereunder.
12.11       SEVERABILITY.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any term or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or of any other term or provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.  If it is ever held that any restriction hereunder is too broad to permit enforcement of such restriction to its fullest extent, each Party hereby agrees that such restriction may be enforced to the maximum extent permitted by Law, and each Party hereby consents and agrees that such scope may be judicially modified accordingly in any proceeding brought to enforce such restriction.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

Exhibit 10.4
 
 
 
 
 
This non-qualified stock option (the "") is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Certificate, the Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "") and the Ameriprise Financial Long-Term Incentive Award Program Guide (the "").  All terms and provisions of the Plan and the LTIA Guide, as the same may be amended from time to time, are incorporated herein and made part hereof as if stated herein.  If any provision hereof and of the Plan or the LTIA Guide shall be in conflict, the terms of the Plan or the LTIA Guide, as applicable, shall govern.  All capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan.  The NQSO shall be exercisable only in accordance with the provisions of this Certificate, the Plan and the LTIA Guide and shall have a term of no more than 10 years from the Award Date.
NQSO
Plan
LTIA Guide
 
The NQSO is exercisable only by you and may not be assigned, sold, pledged, hypothecated, transferred or otherwise disposed of in any manner other than as provided in this Certificate, the Plan or the LTIA Guide, subject to rules adopted by the Committee from time to time.  The NQSO can be exercised by your beneficiaries after your death.
 
The granting of this NQSO, or any prior or future award, is neither a contract nor a guarantee of continued employment; the continuation of your employment is and always will be at the discretion of the Company.  The granting of this NQSO is a one-time discretionary act and it does not impose any obligation on the Company to offer future awards of any amount or nature. The continuation of the Plan and the grant of future awards is a voluntary act completely within the discretion of the Company, and the Plan is subject to termination at any time.
 
1
   The vesting schedule generally provides for vesting over a 4-year period.  In any event, the vesting schedule shall provide for vesting over a period of no less than 2 years from the Award Date.

Exhibit 10.5
 
 
 
This restricted stock award (the "") is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Certificate, the Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "") and the Ameriprise Financial Long-Term Incentive Award Program Guide (the "").  All terms and provisions of the Plan and the LTIA Guide, as the same may be amended from time to time, are incorporated herein and made part hereof as if stated herein.  If any provision hereof and of the Plan or the LTIA Guide shall be in conflict, the terms of the Plan or the LTIA Guide, as applicable, shall govern.  All capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan.
RSA
Plan
LTIA Guide
 
The RSA includes rights to vote the shares underlying the RSA as a shareholder of the Company.
 
Except as provided in the Plan and the LTIA Guide, the RSA may not be assigned, sold, pledged, hypothecated, transferred or otherwise disposed of in any manner other than as provided in this Certificate, the Plan or the LTIA Guide, subject to rules adopted by the Committee from time to time.
 
The granting of this RSA, or any prior or future award, is neither a contract nor a guarantee of continued employment; the continuation of your employment is and always will be at the discretion of the Company.  The granting of this award is a one-time discretionary act and it does not impose any obligation on the Company to offer future awards of any amount or nature.  The continuation of the Plan and the grant of future awards is a voluntary act completely within the discretion of the Company, and the Plan is subject to termination at any time.
1
   For those RSAs that are intended to qualify under section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, performance conditions based on the Company's "return on equity" shall be applied.  The Company's "return on equity" is generally the after-tax net income divided by the average annual shareholders' equity.
 
2
   The vesting schedule generally provides for vesting over a 4-year period.  In any event, the vesting schedule shall provide for vesting over a period of no less than 2 years from the Award Date.

Exhibit 10.6
 
 
 
This restricted stock unit award (the "") represents the Company's promise to deliver to you Common Stock in the amount and on the Vesting Dates above, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Certificate, the Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "") and the Ameriprise Financial Long-Term Incentive Award Program Guide (the "").  All terms and provisions of the Plan and the LTIA Guide, as the same may be amended from time to time, are incorporated herein and made part hereof as if stated herein.  If any provision hereof and of the Plan or the LTIA Guide shall be in conflict, the terms of the Plan or the LTIA Guide, as applicable, shall govern.  All capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan.
RSU
Plan
LTIA Guide
 
The RSU includes "dividend equivalent rights," which means rights as determined by the Committee to additional payments in the event that the Company declares a dividend.
 
Except as provided in the Plan and the LTIA Guide, the RSU may not be assigned, sold, pledged, hypothecated, transferred or otherwise disposed of in any manner other than as provided in this Certificate, the Plan or the LTIA Guide, subject to rules adopted by the Committee from time to time.
 
The granting of this RSU, or any prior or future award, is neither a contract nor a guarantee of continued employment; the continuation of your employment is and always will be at the discretion of the Company.  The granting of this award is a one-time discretionary act and it does not impose any obligation on the Company to offer future awards of any amount or nature.  The continuation of the Plan and the grant of future awards is a voluntary act completely within the discretion of the Company, and the Plan is subject to termination at any time.
1
   For those RSUs that are intended to qualify under section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, performance conditions based on the Company's "return on equity" shall be applied.  The Company's "return on equity" is generally the after-tax net income divided by the average annual shareholders' equity.
 
2
   The vesting schedule generally provides for vesting over a 4-year period.  In any event, the vesting schedule shall provide for vesting over a period of no less than 2 years from the Award Date.

Exhibit 10.7
 
Performance Period commencing on ___________________ and ending on ____________________ (the "Performance Period").
 
                This Cash Incentive Award agreement (the "Agreement") sets forth the terms of the Cash Incentive Award (the "Award") granted to you by Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the "Company") pursuant to the Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Plan").  All terms used herein and not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
 
1.             GENERAL.  You have been granted the Award subject to the provisions of the Plan and the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth herein.
 
2.             REQUIREMENT OF EMPLOYMENT.  You will not be entitled to any payment under or with respect to this Award if your employment with the Company terminates for any reason on or before the Payment Date (as such term is defined in Subparagraph 4(b)).  If you are granted a leave of absence or commence any other break in employment intended by the Company to be temporary, the Compensation and Benefits Committee, or its successor (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") shall determine whether and when your employment will be deemed to have terminated.
 
3.
                                      
DETERMINATION OF THE SCHEDULE A VALUE
 
(a)           Subject to Subparagraphs 3(c) and 3(d) below, the Schedule A Value will be equal to the amount determined pursuant to a formula based on __________________, as specified in Schedule A to this Agreement (the "Schedule A Value").
 
(b)           Except as may be set forth on Schedule B to this Agreement, all accounting terms used in this Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
(c)           As soon as practicable after the last day of the Performance Period, the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion, that the Schedule A Value, if any (as determined pursuant to Subparagraph 3(a)), shall be adjusted downward, but in no event upward, by up to 100%.  In no event may the Committee amend any provision hereof so as to increase or otherwise adjust upward the Schedule A Value.  In exercising its discretion to make a downward adjustment, the Committee may take into account certain
factors, including evaluations of business and personal performance, and such other factors deemed relevant by the Committee in its sole discretion.  Any such determination by the Committee need not be made in a uniform manner and may be made selectively among holders of Cash Incentive Awards, whether or not such award holders are similarly situated.
 
(d)           In the event of any change in the corporate capitalization of the Company, such as by reason of any stock split, or a material corporate transaction, such as any merger of the Company into another corporation, any consolidation of the Company and one or more corporations into another corporation, any separation of the Company (including a spin-off or other distribution of stock or property by the Company), any reorganization of the Company (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition of such term in Section 368 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code")), or any partial or complete liquidation by the Company, other than a normal cash dividend, if the Committee shall determine that such a change equitably requires an adjustment in the calculation or terms of the Schedule A Value under this Award, on the grounds that any such change would produce an unreasonable value, such equitable adjustment will be made by the Committee.  Any such determination by the Committee under this Subparagraph 3(d) shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
4.             PAYMENT OF AWARD.
 
(a)           As soon as practicable after the last day of the Performance Period, the Committee shall determine whether the conditions of Paragraph 2 have been met and, if so, shall ascertain the Schedule A Value in accordance with Paragraph 3.
 
(b)           If the Committee determines that there is no Schedule A Value, this Award will be canceled. If the Committee determines that there is some Schedule A Value, as determined pursuant to Paragraph 3, such amount shall become payable to you in cash within fifteen business days following the regularly scheduled payroll payment date of the applicable pay period beginning after January 31 of the year following the Performance Period (the "Payment Date") (or at such other time or times as the Committee shall determine as provided in Paragraph 6 below).
 
5.             TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT AFTER THE PERFORMANCE PERIOD BUT ON OR BEFORE THE PAYMENT DATE.  If, after the last day of the Performance Period and on or before the Payment Date your employment with the Company terminates for any reason, then you and all others claiming under or through you shall not be entitled to receive any payment under or with respect to this Award.
 
6.             DEFERRAL OR ACCELERATION OF PAYMENT OF AWARD.  Subject to satisfying applicable requirements under Section 409A of Code, any payments to be made under this Award may be deferred or accelerated in such manner as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion; provided that as to such a deferral of payment, any such payment in excess of the amount that was originally payable to you under this Agreement will be based on a reasonable interest rate or on one or more predetermined actual investments (whether or not assets associated with the amount are actually invested therein) as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and provided, further, that as to such an acceleration of payment to you under this Agreement, any such payment will be discounted to reasonably reflect the time value of money as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
 
7.             CHANGE IN CONTROL.  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if within two years following the occurrence of a Change in Control and during the Performance Period for this Award you experience a termination of employment that would otherwise entitle you to receive the payment of severance benefits under the provisions of the severance plan of the Company that you participate in as
of the date of such termination of employment, then you shall be paid in respect of and in full satisfaction of this Award, within five days after the date of such termination of employment, a cash payment equal to the value of (i) (A) the average of the cash incentive awards paid or payable to you from the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to each of the two years prior to the Change in Control as determined by the Committee, or (B) if you have not received two such awards, the most recent cash incentive award paid or payable to you under the applicable cash incentive award program of the Company or one of its subsidiaries at the time of such prior payment (or, in the event you have not previously received any such award, the target amount set forth in Schedule A to this Agreement), multiplied by (ii) the number of days that have elapsed during the Performance Period at the time of such termination of employment divided by the number of days in such Performance Period.
 
                The Committee reserves the right to amend or delete this Section 7 in whole or in part at any time and from time to time; provided, that upon and following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Committee may not amend this Section 7 in a manner that is detrimental to your rights without your express written consent.  Any amendment of the definition of Change in Control' in the Plan will be deemed to be an amendment permitted under this Section 7.
 
8.             TAX WITHHOLDING AND FURNISHING OF INFORMATION.  There shall be withheld from any payment of cash under this Award, such amount, if any, as the Company determines is required by law, including, but not limited to, U.S. federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other taxes incurred by reason of making of the Award or of such payment.  It shall be a condition precedent to the obligation of the Company to make payments under this Award that you (or those claiming under or through you) promptly provide the Company with all forms, documents or other information reasonably required by the Company in connection with the Award (including such forms, documents or other information required by the Plan).
 
9.             RIGHTS NOT ASSIGNABLE.  Your rights and interests under the Award and the Plan may not be sold, assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of, or made subject to any encumbrance, pledge, hypothecation or charge of any nature, except that you may designate a beneficiary pursuant to Paragraph 10 hereof.  If you (or those claiming under or through you) attempt to violate this Paragraph 9, such attempted violation shall be null and void and without effect, and the Company's obligation to make any further payments to you (or those claiming under or through you) under or with respect to this Award shall terminate.
 
10.           BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, you may, by completing a form that is acceptable to the Company and returning it prior to your death to the Secretary of the Company, at Ameriprise Financial, Inc., 55 Ameriprise Financial Center, Minneapolis, MN 55474, name a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any payment to which you may become entitled under this Agreement in the event of your death.  You may change your beneficiary or beneficiaries from time to time by submitting a new form to the Secretary of the Company at the same address.  If you do not designate a beneficiary, or if no designated beneficiary is living on the date any amount or award becomes payable under this Agreement, such payment will be made to the legal representatives of your estate, which will be deemed to be your designated beneficiary under this Agreement.
 
11.           ADMINISTRATION.  Any action taken or decision made by the Company, the Board or the Committee or its delegates arising out of or in connection with the construction, administration, interpretation or effect of the Plan or this Agreement shall be within its sole and absolute discretion, as the case may be, and shall be final, conclusive and binding upon you and all persons claiming under or through you.  In receiving this Award or other benefit under the Plan, you and each person claiming under or through you shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated acceptance and ratification of, and consent to,
any action taken or decision made under the Plan by the Company, the Board or the Committee or its delegates.
 
12.           MISCELLANEOUS.  Neither you nor any person claiming under or through you shall have any right or interest, whether vested or otherwise, in the Plan or the Award, unless and until all of the terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan, the Award and this Agreement shall have been complied with.  In addition, neither the adoption of the Plan nor the execution of this Agreement shall in any way affect the rights and powers of any person to dismiss or discharge you at any time from employment with the Company.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates nor their respective officers, directors, employees or agents shall have any liability to you (or those claiming under or through you) under the Plan, this Agreement or otherwise on account of any action taken, or decision not to take any action made, by any of the foregoing persons with respect to the business or operations of the Company or any of its affiliates, despite the fact that any such action or decision may adversely affect in any way whatsoever _____________________ or other financial measures or amounts which are accrued or payable or any of your other rights or interests under this Agreement or with respect to the Award.
 
13.           GOVERNING LAW.  The validity, construction, interpretation, administration and effect of this Agreement shall be governed by the substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the State of New York.
 
14.           INCORPORATION OF THE PLAN.  All terms and provisions of the Plan are incorporated herein and made part hereof as if stated herein.  If any provisions of this Agreement and of the Plan shall be in conflict, the terms of the Plan shall govern; provided, however, that the operation of this Paragraph 14 shall not adversely affect in a material manner your rights without your written consent, or increase your benefits that would result in a material modification with respect to any Award granted hereunder.
 

Exhibit 10.8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
September 30, 2005
 
 
This Guide is available on AMP Central.
Contents
Long-Term Incentive Award Program Guide
Information regarding awards granted beginning October 3, 2005.
 
Introduction
 
Overview
This (the "Guide") provides information about the long-term incentive award program and related policies for long-term incentive awards ("LTIAs") granted pursuant to the Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan").
Long-Term Incentive Award
Program Guide
 
The LTIA program is designed for eligible employees of Ameriprise Financial, Inc., and any of its affiliates participating in the Plan (collectively referred to herein as the "Company" or "AMP"), as determined by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "CBC").
 
In some countries, certain award features may be different than those shown in this Guide in order to meet local regulatory or other requirements.  Awards are granted at the discretion of the Company and the CBC or, to the extent permitted by the Plan, its designee, and are subject to local market regulations and legislation, which could change at any time.
 
Also note that while the tax laws that apply to participants of the LTIA program are based on each employee's tax jurisdiction, most tax information provided in this Guide is generally for U.S. purposes only.  Any tax information provided in this Guide is not intended to constitute tax advice.
 
The Company urges all employees to consult their personal tax advisor with any questions or issues regarding their participation in the LTIA program.
 
The information in this Guide does not create an employment contract and does not imply there will be an LTIA program in the future, nor what the participation, selection and award guidelines would be.
 
The Company
reserves the right to amend, change or terminate all or part of the LTIA program in accordance with applicable plans, agreements and regulations.
 
LTIA Philosophy
The LTIA program aligns participants' interests with those of the Company's shareholders. By providing a stake in the Company's future success, LTIAs are essential to our efforts to attract and retain talented employees.
 
Management recommends LTIAs in accordance with program guidelines and award pools that are established at the beginning of the annual year-end performance and compensation process. (LTIA award pools are subject to CBC discretion, cost, dilution and shareholder plan limits.)
 
Guidelines are reviewed and set annually to provide competitive compensation opportunities, while giving management the flexibility to select and reward individuals.  Management may reward some individuals in consecutive years, while others are rewarded on a less frequent basis.
 
Management considers a variety of factors when determining awards under the LTIA program, including performance ratings, leadership behaviors and skills, importance to the future performance and growth of the organization and the ability to model behaviors for others. These factors are particularly important when selecting award recipients in those bands where
participation is limited to less than 100% of these employees.  This selectivity is consistent with market practices and ensures that recipients receive meaningful awards.
 
About the Illustrations
All LTIA illustrations and corresponding values shown in this Guide are based on financial, stock price and other assumptions about future events or circumstances, which may or may not actually occur, as well as continuous employment and award requirements.
 
The illustrations are hypothetical and not meant to imply that the Company will achieve certain stock prices or growth rates, or has achieved any stated growth rate consistently in the past.  The value and return on AMP common stock will fluctuate over time and may be worth more or less than the values shown in these illustrations.  Past performance is no guarantee of future results.  Please consult your personal financial advisor on the value, tax and other implications of your LTIAs, as applicable to your circumstances.  This Guide is not intended to provide any financial or tax advice.
 
Award Confirmation Materials
Generally, all employee recipients of LTIAs will have on-line access to their individual LTIA information through the Company's HR self-service.  In addition, Restricted Stock Award ("RSA"), Restricted Stock Unit ("RSU") and/or Non-Qualified Stock Option ("NQSO") Award Certificates will be distributed to employees via electronic means (either inter-Company electronic mail or to the employees' desktop computers).  Those LTIA recipients who do not have access to on-line HR tools will have confirmation materials mailed to their home address as soon as practicable following approval of the award.
 
You should print out and retain these LTIA documents with any award materials you have received in the past.
 
Governing Award Documents
The Plan, the Award Certificates and this Guide contain the controlling provisions of each LTIA.  To view these documents please go to AMP Central.  While it is intended to have all LTIA documents available on the HR Homepage, this page is currently under construction.  Therefore, please search within AMP Central to access these LTIA documents.   These documents, along with CBC decisions, will govern in cases of conflict, ambiguity or miscommunication.  No employee has the authority to change or supersede LTIA provisions or CBC decisions.  Any representation to the contrary shall be void and non-binding on the Company.
LTIA Program
Overview
The chart below summarizes key features of the LTIA program.  The Plan permits a variety of awards to be granted to Plan participants.  This Guide describes those types of awards that we currently expect to grant under the Plan.  If the type of awards granted under the Plan changes, we will provide you with detailed information pertaining to any such awards.  Detailed information about various award types, tax implications and other award information follows in separate sections.
 
*
                
To avoid adverse tax consequences, Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") may be granted in lieu of RSAs and NQSOs in certain countries, as well as to employees in the U.S. who meet the retirement definition during the course of the award's term.
 
Substitution Awards
In addition to those LTIAs newly granted to eligible Participants under the Plan, this Guide and the applicable Award Certificates, certain incentive awards that were granted under the American Express Company 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan will be substituted with AMP LTIAS in connection with the spin-off of the Company from American Express Company (such LTIAs, the "Substitution Awards").  Substitution Awards will be governed by the Plan and the Form of Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan Master Agreement for Substitution Awards.
Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan
The general nature of the Plan and it terms and conditions are described herein, but the information contained in this Guide is for general guidance only and is not intended to be a complete description of the Plan.  In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between this Guide and the Plan, the Plan provisions will govern.
 
Purpose
The purpose of the Plan is to promote the interests of the Company and our shareholders by providing eligible participants, who are responsible for the management, growth and protection of the business of the Company, with incentives and rewards to encourage them to continue in the service of the Company.  The Plan is designed to meet this purpose by providing such participants with a proprietary interest in pursuing the long-term growth, profitability and financial success of our Company.
 
Eligible Participants and Types of Awards
The Plan provides for the grant of cash awards ("Cash Incentive Awards"), non-qualified and incentive stock options ("Options") and other stock-based awards (Options and other stock-based awards, together with Cash Incentive Awards, are referred to in this Guide as the "LTIAs") to our employees.  The Plan also provides that the CBC may grant LTIAs to other persons such as independent contractors and non-employee directors who provide services to the Company.  LTIAs may be settled in cash or in shares of Company common stock ("AMP Shares") or other property pursuant to the terms of such LTIA.  Our named executive officers will receive annual cash bonuses as Cash Incentive Awards under the Plan.  In addition, to provide suitable incentives to employees outside the United States, we may issue awards similar to the types of awards listed above that also meet the requirements of foreign jurisdictions.
 
AMP Shares Available For Grant under the Plan
The number of
AMP Shares
authorized for issuance with respect to LTIAs granted under the Plan is 37,900,000.  Of those AMP Shares, the maximum number of AMP Shares that may be covered by "incentive stock options" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") shall not exceed 5,000,000.  AMP Shares issued under the Plan may be either newly issued shares or treasury shares.
 
Excluding AMP Shares that may be issued with respect to Substitution Awards, the maximum number of AMP Shares that may be covered by LTIAs granted under the Plan to any single participant in the Plan (a "Participant") in any calendar year will not exceed 3,000,000 AMP Shares.  The amount payable to any Participant with respect to any calendar year for all Cash Incentive Awards for which the performance period is not longer than one year shall not exceed $15,000,000, and for which the performance period is longer than one year shall not exceed $10,000,000.
 
AMP Shares covered by LTIAs shall only be counted as used to the extent they are actually issued and delivered to a Participant (or a Participant's permitted transferees). AMP Shares covered by Substitution Awards that are not counted as used shall be available for use in connection with any other LTIAs.  Accordingly, if an LTIA is settled for cash or if AMP Shares
are withheld to pay the exercise price of an Option or to satisfy any tax withholding requirement in connection with an LTIA, only the AMP Shares issued (if any), net of the AMP Shares withheld, will be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the number of AMP Shares that remain available for delivery under the Plan.  If AMP Shares are issued subject to conditions which may result in the forfeiture, cancellation or return of such AMP Shares to the Company, any portion of the AMP Shares forfeited, cancelled or returned shall be treated as not issued pursuant to the Plan.  If AMP Shares owned by a Participant are tendered (either actually or through attestation) to the Company in payment of any obligation in connection with an LTIA, the number of AMP Shares tendered shall be added to the number of AMP Shares that are available for delivery under the Plan.
 
If the Company uses cash it receives in payment of the exercise price or purchase price in connection with any LTIA to repurchase AMP Shares, the AMP Shares so repurchased will be added to the aggregate number of AMP Shares available for issuance under the Plan.  The AMP Shares covered by LTIAs granted pursuant to the Plan in connection with the assumption, replacement, conversion or adjustment of outstanding equity-based awards in the context of a corporate acquisition or merger will not count as used under the Plan for these purposes.
 
Administration
The CBC shall from time to time designate those persons who shall be granted LTIAs and the amount, type and other terms and conditions of such LTIAs.  The CBC will have full authority to administer the Plan, including authority to interpret and construe any provision of the Plan and the terms of any LTIA issued under it and to adopt such rules and regulations for administering the Plan, as it may deem necessary.  Pursuant to this authority, on or after the date of grant of an LTIA under the Plan, the CBC may (i) accelerate the date on which any such LTIA becomes vested, exercisable or transferable, as the case may be, (ii) extend the term of any such LTIA, including, without limitation, extending the period following a termination of a Participant's employment during which any such LTIA may remain outstanding, (iii) waive any conditions to the vesting, exercisability or transferability, as the case may be, of any such LTIA or (iv) provide for the payment of dividends or dividend equivalents with respect to any such LTIA; provided that, the CBC shall not have any such authority to the extent that the exercise of such authority would cause any tax to become due under Section 409A of the Code.
 
The Company shall pay any amount payable with respect to an LTIA in accordance with the terms of such LTIA, provided that the CBC may, in its discretion, defer the payment of amounts payable with respect to an LTIA subject to and in accordance with the terms of a deferred compensation plan as adopted by the Company.
 
The Plan is not subject to the requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  The Plan is not qualified under the Internal Revenue Code.
 
The Company's Board of Directors appoints CBC members for an annual term.  The Board may remove any CBC member for cause and a majority of the shareholders may remove a CBC member for any reason.  No CBC member is an employee of the Company or has any business undertakings with the Company.
Performance-Based Compensation
The CBC may grant LTIAs that are intended to qualify under the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code as performance-based compensation. The performance goals upon which the payment or vesting of any LTIA (other than Options) that is intended to so qualify depends may relate to one or more of the following performance measures: (i) net income or operating net income (before or after taxes, interest, depreciation, amortization, and/or nonrecurring/unusual items), (ii) return on assets, return on capital, return on equity, return on economic capital, return on other measures of capital, return on sales or other financial criteria, (iv) revenue or net sales, (v) gross profit or operating gross profit, (vi) cash flow, (vii) productivity or efficiency ratios, (viii) share price or total shareholder return, (ix) earnings per share, (x) budget and expense management, (xi) customer and product measures, including market share, high value client growth, and customer growth, (xii) working capital turnover and targets, (xiii) margins, and (xiv) economic value added or other value added measurements, in any such case (x) considered absolutely or relative to historic performance or relative to one or more other businesses and (y) determined for the Company or a business unit or division thereof.
Within 90 days after the beginning of a performance period, and in any case before 25% of the performance period has elapsed, it is expected that the CBC shall establish (a) performance goals and objectives for such performance period, (b) target awards for each Participant, and (c) performance schedules or other objective methods for determining the applicable performance percentage to be applied to each such target award.
The measurement of any performance measure(s) may exclude the impact of charges for restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items, and other unusual or non-recurring items, and the cumulative effects of accounting changes, each as defined by generally accepted accounting principles and as identified in the Company's audited financial statements, including the notes thereto. Any performance measure(s) may be used to measure the performance of the Company as a whole or any business unit of the Company or any combination thereof, as the CBC may deem appropriate, or any of the above performance measures as compared to the performance of a group of competitor companies, or a published or special index that the CBC, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
 
General Plan Provisions
 
Adjustments upon Changes in Capitalization
The Plan provides for an adjustment in the number of AMP Shares available to be issued under the Plan, the number of AMP Shares subject to LTIAs and the exercise prices of certain LTIAs upon a change in the capitalization of the Company, a stock dividend or split, a merger or combination of AMP Shares and certain other similar events.
 
Tax Withholding
The Plan provides that Participants may elect to satisfy certain federal, state and local withholding tax requirements, if any, by remitting to the Company cash or, subject to certain conditions, AMP Shares or by instructing the Company to withhold AMP Shares payable to the Participant.  In the event the Participant remits AMP Shares or instructs the Company to withhold AMP Shares payable to such Participant, only a number of AMP Shares sufficient to satisfy the minimum withholding tax requirements, if any, attributable to such exercise, grant or
vesting but not greater than the minimum withholding obligations may be remitted or withheld, as the case may be.
 
Assignment and Transfer
Under the Plan, LTIAs may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution, except as permitted by the CBC on a general or specific basis.
 
Amendment
Our Board of Directors may at any time suspend or discontinue the Plan or revise or amend it in any respect whatsoever, except that, in general, no revision or amendment may, without the approval of shareholders of the Company, (i) increase the number of AMP Shares that may be issued under the Plan or (ii) materially modify the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan.
 
Term of the Plan
No grants of LTIAs may be made under the Plan after September 30, 2015.
Stock-Based Award Types
 
Overview
This section summarizes general features of RSAs, NQSOs and RSUs.  Detailed information about the various award types is contained in sections that follow.
 
Restricted Stock Award ("RSA")
 
Overview
An RSA grant is a grant of AMP Shares in which your rights in such shares are restricted until the shares vest, subject to continuous employment.  Once vested, you receive the AMP Shares free from restrictions.  Quarterly dividends are paid during the restricted period, as may be declared by the AMP Board of Directors, and you may vote your restricted AMP Shares.
 
Valuing RSA Grants
The value of an RSA share at vesting is equal to AMP's average share price on that day. 
We use the average of the high and low of AMP's trading prices on the vesting date. 
For example, if 150 restricted AMP Shares vest in 1/07 and the AMP Share price at vesting is $55, the pre-tax value of these AMP Shares would be $8,250 ($55 x 150 = $8,250). (See "About the Illustrations" for an important disclosure.)
 
Vesting
RSAs generally vest in equal installments over a four-year period, starting with the first anniversary of the grant date and ending on the fourth anniversary.  The Award Certificate you receive in connection with an RSA grant will include a personalized schedule.  Prior to the vesting date, the Corporate Secretary's Office will remind you that you may open a brokerage account with Ameriprise Financial Brokerage Services ("AFBS") and have the net AMP Shares transferred to this account, or hold the
net AMP Shares in an account in your name with our transfer agent, The Bank of New York.
 The net AMP Shares deposited into your account will be the number of AMP Shares specified in your RSA award less the necessary number of AMP Shares needed to satisfy any tax withholding requirements.  Once deposited into your account, you may sell your AMP Shares at any time, subject to securities laws governing insider trading and Company black-out periods applicable to Bands 50 and above.
 
Quarterly Dividends
AMP Share dividends are paid quarterly during the restricted period, as may be declared by the AMP Board of Directors. The dividend payment amount is determined each quarter and stated as a per share amount that is multiplied by the number of restricted AMP Shares in your award.  For example, if a quarterly dividend is $0.12 per share and you have 500 restricted AMP Shares, your quarterly dividend payment would equal $60 ($0.12 x 500 = $60).
 
To change the address where your dividend check is mailed or to request a dividend check replacement, visit The Bank of New York's website at www.stockbny.com.  You can also reach The Bank of New York at (800) 463-5911 or (
212) 815-3700.
 
For the hearing impaired, the TDD Number is (888) 269-5221.
 
Treatment of RSAs upon Certain Events
For information on the treatment of RSAs upon retirement, employment termination, leave of absence, etc., please see "Treatment of LTIAs upon Certain Events."
Non-Qualified Stock Option ("NQSO")
 
Overview
An NQSO gives you the right to purchase a specified number of AMP Shares for a 10-year period at the exercise price (which is the price at grant) on the day the option is granted, subject to continuous employment and vesting requirements. The exercise price is the average of the high and low of AMP's trading prices on the day the option is granted.  Once an option becomes vested, you determine when to exercise the option and how to pay for the option exercise.
 
"Non-qualified" refers to the tax treatment of the option under the Code.  A non-qualified stock option does not receive special individual tax treatment under the Code, but preserves the Company's tax deduction for the gain at exercise. This means the gain is treated as ordinary income and you must pay tax on the gain when you exercise the NQSO.  (See "Tax Implications for Stock-Based Awards (U.S. Only)" for more detailed information).
 
Valuing NQSO Grants
NQSOs earn value when AMP's stock price increases above the exercise price.  Once an NQSO becomes vested, you have the right to exercise the NQSO.  For example, assume that 500 vested NQSOs were granted at the exercise price of $35 per share and the AMP Share price is now $55.  If you decide to exercise the NQSO, the pre-tax value of these shares would be $10,000 ($55 - $35 = $20 x 500 = $10,000). (See "About the Illustrations" for an important disclosure.)
 
Vesting
Outstanding NQSOs generally become vested and available for exercise in equal installments over a four-year period, starting with the first anniversary of the grant date and ending on the fourth anniversary.  The Award Certificate you receive in connection with an NQSO grant will include a personalized schedule.
 
Steps for Exercising NQSOs
(For U.S. employees; exercise steps outside the U.S. may differ due to local requirements)
You may exercise an NQSO as soon as it vests or at any subsequent time during the 10-year option term, subject to continuous employment.  Please keep track of your NQSO expiration date(s) to ensure you realize any value through a timely exercise. As with any investment decision, please consult with your personal financial advisor before exercising an NQSO.
 
Follow these steps to exercise an NQSO:
 
1.
              
Complete the Notice of Exercise of Employee Stock Option Form.
  To access this form, please go to AMP Central and search on "Exercise Form".  Also, you may e-mail Brokerage Services for the Notice of Exercise Form.  Their address is "ESO Group".  On the form indicate how you plan to pay for the AMP Shares you are purchasing through exercising the option and any required minimum tax withholding.  You may pay the exercise cost (exercise price times the number of shares) using one of these payment options (in U.S. dollars):
 
                 
Cashless:
Instruct Ameriprise Financial Brokerage Services ("AFBS"), our exclusive broker, to sell the number of AMP Shares required to pay the exercise cost and tax
payment due. There is no fee to open a brokerage account with AFBS and you will pay a reduced commission when AFBS sells shares on your behalf.
 
                 
Check:
Made payable to
Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
 
 
                 
Stock-for-Stock ("Swap"):
Swap AMP Shares you have owned for at least six months that are held in either your name or a joint account with your name. (AMP Shares within a U.S. Individual Retirement Account, the Ameriprise Financial 401(k) Plan, or other similar program cannot be used for this transaction.) You may pay the exercise cost by completing an Attestation Form and attaching documentation that affirms you own the required AMP Shares.  To access this form, please go to AMP Central and search on "Attestation Form".
 
If you choose to pay the exercise cost using the cashless method, required tax withholding will be deducted from the proceeds of the sale.  If you choose to pay the exercise cost by check or with AMP Shares (., Swap), you may pay any required minimum tax withholding using one of these payment options (in U.S. dollars):
i.e
 
                 
Check
made payable to .
Ameriprise Financial, Inc
 
                 
Request the Corporate Secretary's Office to otherwise available from the exercise.
retain shares
 
                 
Instruct AFBS to to pay the required minimum tax withholding.
sell the appropriate number of shares
 
 
2.
              
(For Bands 50 and above only)
Verify special provisions and restrictions.
 
                 
Obtain required approval.
All Band 50 and above Participants must pre-clear their intent to exercise through the Company's Corporate Secretary's Office.  Additional approvals may be required if the exercise request exceeds certain hurdles, e.g., the request that would result in the exercise of more than 40% of your available AMP Shares (25% for Executive Team members) within any 90-day period.  The Corporate Secretary's Office will provide instruction on necessary approvals required.
 
                 
Black-out period.
There is a quarterly black-out period when the trading window closes and remains closed for approximately six weeks until the Company's earnings for the preceding quarter are made public.  Other black-out periods may apply as determined by the Corporate Secretary's Office.
 
                 
(For Bands 70 and above only)
The Company will be implementing stock ownership guidelines for executives.  These guidelines are currently being developed and will be communicated to affected executives after CBC approval.
Affirm stock ownership requirements are met or requirements understood if not yet met.
3.
              
Submit your Notice of Exercise of Employee Stock Option Form.
  If you plan to sell all or a portion of your AMP Shares, fax the form directly to Ameriprise Financial Brokerage Services at (612) 671-6023.  If you are paying for the exercise by check or with AMP Shares you already own, mail the form to Ameriprise Financial Stock Administration, 361 AMP Financial Center, Minneapolis, MN  55474 or fax it to (612) 671-3948.  Stock Administration will send you a note confirming the amount needed to cover the exercise cost and the required minimum tax withholding. (Forms submitted via e-mail are not accepted at this time.)
 
4.
             
To place a stop order on your account, contact Ameriprise Financial Brokerage Services directly at (612) 671-5355 or (800) 555-9826.
 
The above described provisions and procedures are subject to change as the Company implements more integrated and automated processes.
 
NQSO Exercise Illustration
(For U.S. purposes only) The illustration shows three ways to exercise an NQSO. In this example, assume a U.S. employee chooses to exercise 1,000 NQSO shares with a grant price of $30 per share. Assume that the market price on the exercise date is $50 per share.
 
 
(See "About the Illustrations" for an important disclosure.)
Treatment of NQSOs upon Certain Events
To find out how your NQSOs will be treated upon retirement, employment termination, leave of absence, etc., please see "Treatment of LTIAs upon Certain Events."
Restricted Stock Unit ("RSU")
 
Overview
The Company has the right to grant an RSU in place of an RSA or NQSO when it is advantageous to the employee and/or the Company from a tax perspective.
 
In the U.S., RSUs are granted in lieu of RSAs to employees who meet the retirement definition during the course of the award's term, in order to avoid adverse tax consequences. In certain countries outside the U.S., RSAs or NQSOs are taxable at the time of grant even though they have not vested. For this reason, RSUs may be granted and they may have country-specific provisions.
 
Generally, an RSU represents the Company's intent to provide a specified number of AMP Shares at the end of a four-year period of continuous employment.  During this period, you receive quarterly payments that are the equivalent of AMP Share dividends.  You do not have voting rights for shares promised under the RSU.
 
After vesting, you will receive the number of vested AMP Shares specified in your RSU award.  Tax withholding on the market value of these shares will depend on the tax regulations in your country.  Any required minimum tax withholding will be paid by surrendering AMP Shares.
 
Treatment of RSUs upon Certain Events
For information about how your RSUs will be treated upon certain events, such as retirement, employment termination, leave of absence, etc., please see "Treatment of LTIAs upon Certain Events."
Portfolio Grant ("PG") Program
 
Overview
(For Bands 50 and above)
  Portfolio Grants ("PGs") are long-term cash incentives d
esigned to earn value based on three-year business segment and overall Company financial and performance metrics. Generally, PGs
vest and become payable in February following the three-year performance period, as specified in your individual award agreement and are based on values generated from the Financial Incentive Component ("FIC") and Stock Incentive Component ("SIC") grids, after CBC adjustments are made.  We project that PG payments will be made in cash, but they may also be made in AMP Shares or other forms of payment, or a combination of cash, AMP Shares and other forms of payment.  Certain terms and conditions, including applicable performance and payout grids, with respect to PG awards are being developed by the Company and will be communicated to PG recipients after CBC approval.
Tax Implications for Stock-Based and Other LTIAs (U.S. Only)
 
The following is a summary description of the United States federal income tax consequences generally arising with respect to grants of RSAs, NQSOs, RSUs and other LTIAs issued pursuant to the Plan.  There may also be state and local taxes applicable to these awards.  This summary is not intended to be a complete description of all possible tax consequences of LTIAs issued under the Plan and you should be aware that different tax treatments may apply outside of the United States depending upon your country of residence and/or citizenship.
 
NO REPRESENTATION RESPECTING TAX TREATMENT OF ANY LTIA, INCLUDING THE EXERCISE OF ANY NQSOS, HAS BEEN MADE TO YOU.  YOU ARE URGED TO CONSULT YOUR COUNSEL, ACCOUNTANTS, OR OTHER TAX ADVISORS REGARDING THE TAX CONSEQUENCES OF LTIAS GRANTED TO YOU IN RELATION TO YOUR OWN PARTICULAR TAX SITUATION.
RSA/RSU Tax Implications
()  The tax rules that apply to your RSA or RSU award vary based on your tax jurisdiction. Below is a brief summary of the general tax implications for U.S. taxpayers.  You are urged to consult with your personal tax advisor on applicable tax implications of RSA or RSU awards and selling acquired AMP Shares in light of your individual circumstances.
U.S. Only
 
For employees subject to U.S. taxes, there are no specific income tax consequences when an RSA/RSU award is granted.  As the restricted period expires and RSA/RSU shares vest , the RSA/RSU shares become transferable or no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, whichever occurs earlier), ordinary compensation income taxes are triggered based on the market value of an AMP Share on the day of vesting. Your W-2 wage and earnings statement will indicate that you had ordinary compensation income equal to the market value of your vested AMP Shares.
(i.e.
 
Income resulting from an RSA/RSU vesting is subject to U.S. statutory federal minimum income tax withholding, plus any applicable statutory state and local withholding. ( The actual income tax you owe will be based on your individual circumstances and may be more or less than the income tax withheld.)  This income is also subject to Social Security and Medicare taxes.  The net AMP Shares deposited into your account will be the number of AMP Shares specified in your RSA/RSU award less the necessary number of AMP Shares needed to satisfy any tax withholding requirements.
NOTE:
 
If you later sell AMP Shares acquired from an RSA/RSU vesting, you will realize a short-term or long-term capital gain (or loss) on the spread between the market value on the date of vesting (your cost basis) and the net proceeds you receive when you sell the AMP Shares.  If you realize a gain after satisfying a minimum holding period (currently greater than one year) and are in a net capital gain position under applicable U.S. tax rules, you may be able to pay tax on the gain based on long-term capital gains tax rates.  These rates are generally lower than ordinary income and short-term capital gains tax rates.  If you realize a loss, you may be able to use that loss to offset any capital gains you may otherwise have and any loss in excess of capital gains may, to a
limited extent, be used to offset ordinary income, to the extent permitted under applicable U.S. tax rules.
 
During the restricted period, any dividends or dividend-equivalents paid on unvested RSA/RSU shares will be paid through The Bank of New York and reflected in the earnings column under "Taxable Other" on your payroll check.  Dividends or dividend-equivalents paid on these shares are also considered ordinary compensation income and are subject to taxes, as described above.  Ordinary income incurred will appear on your W-2 statement.
 
In advance of an RSA vesting event, you will receive a notification of this pending RSA vesting from LTIA Stock Administration.  This notification will provide you with important information and instructions in advance of the vesting date.  Following actual vesting, you will receive a Share Release Receipt that reflects the grant date, vesting date, market value of your vested AMP Shares, average AMP stock price used to calculate the fair market value, number of shares withheld to satisfy your tax obligation, breakdown of the taxes withheld and net shares delivered to you.  It is extremely important that you retain this document for income tax purposes.
 
NQSO Tax Implications
() The tax implications that apply when you exercise your NQSOs vary based on your tax jurisdiction.  Below is a summary of the general tax implications for holders of NQSOs who are U.S. taxpayers.  You are urged to consult with your personal tax advisor on the applicable U.S. and non-U.S. tax implications of receiving and exercising NQSOs and selling acquired AMP Shares in light of your individual circumstances.
U.S. Only
 
For employees subject to U.S. taxes, in the year that you exercise an NQSO, your W-2 wage and earnings statement will indicate that you had ordinary compensation income equal to the difference between the exercise price and the market value of AMP Shares on the day of the exercise.
 
Income resulting from an NQSO exercise is subject to U.S. statutory minimum federal income tax withholding, plus any applicable statutory state and local withholding. ( The actual income tax you owe will be based on your individual circumstances and may be more or less than the income tax withheld.)  This income is also subject to Social Security and Medicare taxes.  You may pay any required minimum tax withholding using one of three payments options:  check, selling of AMP Shares or retention of AMP Shares by the Corporate Secretary's Office.  Please refer to the section in this Guide titled "NQSO Exercise Illustration" for withholding tax payment details.
NOTE:
 
If you later sell AMP Shares acquired from an NQSO exercise, you will realize a short-term of long-term capital gain (or loss) on the spread between the market value on the date of exercise (your cost basis) and the net proceeds you receive when you sell the AMP Shares. If you realize a gain after satisfying a minimum holding period (currently greater than one year) and are in a net capital gain position under applicable U.S. tax rules, you may be able to pay tax on the gain based on long-term capital gains tax rates. These rates are generally lower than ordinary income and short-term capital gains tax rates.  If you realize a loss, you may be able to use that loss to offset any capital gains you may otherwise have and any loss in excess of capital gains may, to a
limited extent, be used to offset ordinary income, to the extent permitted under applicable U.S. tax rules.
 
If you pay for an NQSO exercise with AMP Shares you have owned for at least six months, generally under current U.S. tax laws, this does not result in the taxable sale or other disposition of these old AMP Shares.  In fact, if you use the "attestation" procedure to do this (described in this Guide as a "stock-for-stock exercise"), the old AMP Shares will retain their cost or other tax basis and their holding period.
 
Other Tax Implications for LTIAs
 
Performance-based LTIAs
Section 162(m) of the Code limits the ability of the Company to deduct compensation paid during a fiscal year to a Covered Employee (see definition of Covered Employee under "Payments to U.S. Taxpayers upon a Change in Control of the Company") in excess of one million dollars, unless such compensation qualifies as "performance-based compensation" (as defined in Code Section 162(m)) or meets another exception specified in Code Section 162(m).  Generally, LTIAs granted under the Plan may be deductible by the Company, without regard to the limit set by Code Section 162(m); however, the Plan does permit awards to be granted that would be subject to such limit and that would not qualify as "performance-based compensation" or meet another exception in Code Section 162(m).  In such case, the Company's deductions with respect to such awards would be subject to the limitations imposed by Code Section 162(m).
 
Generally, you will not have income at the time the CBC grants a performance-based award to you.  Under current tax laws, you generally will have income at the time that the Company pays cash, AMP Shares, other Company securities or property to you under such award, which will equal the amount of cash and the fair market value of the AMP Shares, securities, or property you receive.
 
Code Section 83(b) Election
Under the Plan, you may be permitted or required to elect to be taxed at the time of receipt of AMP Shares or other property rather than upon lapse of restrictions on transferability or substantial risk of forfeiture, but if you subsequently forfeit such AMP Shares or property, you would not be entitled to any tax deduction, including as a capital loss, for the value of the AMP Shares or property on which you previously paid tax.  In such case, you must file any such election with the IRS within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the AMP Shares or other property.  The Company generally will be entitled to a deduction in an amount equal to the ordinary income recognized by the Participant.
 
Parachute Payments
In certain circumstances, a Participant
in the Plan might be deemed to have received "parachute payments" under Code Section 280G to the extent that a Change of Control of the Company results in the grant of, or increase in the amount of, any LTIA or accelerates a such Participant's rights under any LTIA (such as the right to exercise, retain, or earn such LTIA).  In general, if the present value of all payments to a Participant constituting parachute payments equals or
exceeds three times the Participant's "base amount" (the Participant's average annual compensation, determined over the five-year period preceding the year the payment is made), the Participant will be subject to a 20% excise tax (in addition to regular tax) on the excess of the parachute payments over the Participant's base amount, and the Company will be denied any tax deduction for the amount of the excess parachute payments.  See "Payments to U.S. Taxpayers upon a Change in Control of the Company" for more information.).
 
Code Section 409A
Congress recently passed tax legislation geared toward certain deferred compensation programs.  This statute, Code Section 409A, was generally effective January 1, 2005.  LTIAs that are earned and vested prior to the end of 2004 are generally exempt from the new law, provided that they are not materially modified after October 3, 2004.  All LTIAs that are subject to the new law will be administered in compliance with the new law, even if it conflicts with the information in this Guide, the Plan or the governing award documents described above.  The information in this Guide, as well as the Plan and the governing award documents, will be amended in accordance with IRS deadlines to comply with Section 409A.  Further information on Section 409A and the nature of the required amendments to comply with recently released IRS guidance will be provided when it becomes available.
Treatment of LTIAs upon Certain Events
 
Overview
Existing policies regarding the treatment of outstanding RSAs, NQSOs and RSUs under certain circumstances are described below.  The CBC may amend the following policies for any or all outstanding and future LTIAs.  For specific information about the treatment of your LTIAs, please see the applicable section that describes the following specific events:
 
                 
part-time employment status,
 
                 
employment termination,
 
                 
leave of absence,
 
                 
death,
 
                 
disability termination,
 
                 
retirement,
 
                 
transfer from one business segment to another,
 
                 
situations of Detrimental Conduct (Bands 50 and above), and
 
                 
Change in Control of the Company.
 
Part-Time Employment Status
Outstanding LTIAs continue to vest while you are on part-time status, subject to the Company's right to adjust or terminate any outstanding LTIAs, based on its discretionary determination of a significant change in your duties and responsibilities.
 
Employment Termination
This section pertains to employment terminations other than retirement, death, or disability (as described separately).
 
                 
Voluntary Termination
:
If you terminate your employment with the Company, your outstanding LTIAs, including any exercisable NQSO shares that have not been exercised, will be cancelled on your last day of employment.
 
                 
Termination Not Eligible for Severance under Company Plan:
  If your employment is terminated for any reason other than death, disability or retirement or pursuant to a Change in Control and you are not entitled to receive benefits under a Company severance plan (as defined by the Company), your outstanding LTIAs, including any exercisable NQSO shares that have not been exercised, will be cancelled on your last day of employment.
                 
Termination Eligible for Severance under Company Plan
:
If your employment is terminated and you receive benefits under a Company severance plan (as defined by the Company) in the form of payments over a specified severance period, your outstanding LTIAs, including any exercisable NQSO shares that have not been exercised, will be cancelled on the earlier of the award expiration date or the end of your severance payments. However, if you begin a new full-time position outside the Company (other than self-employment) during the severance period, your outstanding LTIAs will be cancelled upon such employment, regardless of the continuation of severance payments. If your employment is terminated and you receive benefits under a Company severance plan (as defined by the Company) in the form of a lump sum payment, your outstanding LTIAs, including any exercisable shares that have not been exercised, will be cancelled as of your last day of employment.
 
Leave of Absence
Outstanding LTIAs continue to vest when you are on a leave of absence (as determined in accordance with the applicable Company policies) subject to the Company's right to adjust or terminate any outstanding LTIAs, based on its discretionary determination of a significant change in your duties and responsibilities and/or related employment, as defined by the Company.
 
Death
The following chart shows how RSAs/RSUs and NQSOs are treated if your employment with the Company terminates due to your death, subject to the Company receiving required documentation from the legal representatives of your estate.
 
 
In the event of your death, shares for all RSAs/RSUs that vest will automatically be issued to your estate. Since NQSO shares cannot be transferred, the Executor/Executrix of your estate must open an estate brokerage account in order to exercise any NQSOs. The estate is then responsible for distributing any funds according to your Last Will and Testament.
 
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, you may name a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any payments of LTIAs in the event of your death by completing a form that is acceptable to the Company and returning it in a timely manner to the Corporate Secretary's Office, at Ameriprise Financial, Inc., 55 Ameriprise Financial Center, Minneapolis, MN 55474,.  You may change your
beneficiary or beneficiaries from time to time by submitting a new form to the Corporate Secretary's Office at the same address.  If you do not designate a beneficiary, or if no designated beneficiary is living on the date any LTIA amount becomes payable, such payment will be made to the legal representatives of your estate, which will be deemed to be your designated beneficiary.
 
Disability Termination
The following chart shows how your RSAs/RSUs and NQSOs are treated if your employment with the Company terminates due to a qualifying disability, as defined by the Company.
 
 
Retirement
The following chart shows how RSAs/RSUs and NQSOs are treated upon retirement. The worldwide definition of retirement for all outstanding LTIAs, is a minimum of 55 years of age with at least 10 years of applicable service at the point of termination, . If you do not meet the definition of retirement, your LTIAs are forfeited immediately upon termination, as described above.
regardless of any pension plan or other definitions of retirement
IMPORTANT:
 
 
Transfer Between Business Segments
Outstanding LTIAs continue to vest when you transfer from one business segment to another, subject to the Company's right to adjust or terminate any outstanding LTIAs, based on its discretionary determination of a significant change in your duties and responsibilities and/or related employment, as defined by the Company.
 
Situations of Detrimental Conduct
(Bands 50 and above)
To protect the interests of the Company and all employees, the Company has implemented Detrimental Conduct Provisions, affecting Plan Participants in Bands 50 and above.  These provisions support the multi-year performance objectives of LTIAs.
 
Detrimental Conduct Provisions specify how LTIAs and LTIA payments will be handled in the event a Band 50 or above employee joins a defined competitor, leaves and solicits business customers, solicits or hires AMP employees or otherwise engages in conduct that is against the Company's interests during certain time periods, as defined by the Company.
 
        
For Bands 50 and 60 Participants
,
Detrimental Conduct during employment and up to one year after employment termination would result in the repayment of NQSO exercise gains realized in the six months prior to employment termination.
 
        
For Bands 70 and above Participants
,
Detrimental Conduct during employment and up to one year after employment termination would result in the repayment of all LTIA value realized in the two years prior to termination of employment.
 
For the full Detrimental Conduct Provisions, see Appendix A attached to this Guide.
 
Change in Control ("CIC") of the Company
We designed the CIC (as defined in the Plan) provisions to preserve earned or anticipated compensation and benefits if a CIC were to occur, thereby helping you focus on your job during the uncertainty that accompanies a potential CIC.
 
Generally, as the term is used in this Guide, a CIC includes the following:
 
1.
              
A third party acquires 25% or more of the Company's common shares or voting securities.
 
2.     A majority of the AMP Board of Directors is replaced.
 
3.     The consummation of certain mergers, reorganizations, consolidations and sales of assets.
 
4.     The consummation of a complete liquidation or dissolution of AMP.
 
If a merger or other business combination transaction between AMP and another party occurs, a CIC and the applicable LTIA treatment would be triggered if any of the following conditions were present:
 
        
Parties who were AMP shareholders before the transaction own 50% or less of the voting securities of the new company resulting from the business combination, or their ownership is not substantially in the same proportions as before the transaction.
 
        
An unaffiliated party ends up owning 25% or more of the voting securities of the new company (other than a party who owns 25% or more before the transaction).
 
        
A majority of the board of the new company is made up of individuals who were not AMP Board members at the time the deal was signed or approved.
 
In the event of a CIC, outstanding RSAs/RSUs and NQSOs would be treated as follows:
 
        
RSAs/RSUs
.  In addition, if your employment terminates within two years after a CIC for reasons other than misconduct, you will have an additional 90 days after your employment termination date to exercise your vested NQSOs.
and
would vest immediately
NQSOs
 
Change in Control situations are complex and involve a variety of possible circumstances.  In the event of a CIC, the Company will provide detailed information to you about any compensation and benefits programs that may have special CIC provisions.
 
Payments to U.S. Taxpayers upon a Change in Control of the Company
(This section applies to U.S. Taxpayers only. This material is highly complex. In the event of a CIC, the Company will provide detailed information to you.)
 
In the event of a CIC, you may be liable for an excise tax on a portion of your LTIA and other compensation/benefits payments if you are considered a covered employee (as defined in the box below) and your payments exceed a certain total value under U.S. tax definitions.
Most employees are not covered employees, so there is no limit on the total value of their vesting/payment actions upon a CIC.  If you are considered a covered employee in the event of a CIC, we will do the calculation to determine whether you will be better off exceeding the limit and paying the excise tax or having your vesting/payment actions limited to avoid the excise tax.  The Company will determine, in its sole discretion, which approach is more favorable to you and will apply it.  You will not be eligible for additional payments to offset the impact of any excise tax.  LTIAs and value not accelerated for covered employees if the limit is applied will continue to be governed by applicable award documents and paid out as applicable.  Generally, for employees in Bands 70 or above at the time of the CIC, there is no limit on the total value of your LTIA payments, any severance payments and any other vesting/payment actions upon a CIC.  In addition, you may be eligible to receive payments to offset the impact of U.S. excise taxes that may apply to you.
 
 
Resale of Shares Received under the Plan
The U.S. securities laws impose restrictions on the resale of AMP Shares by individuals who are "affiliates" of the Company.  Affiliates may resell their AMP Shares by complying with Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") or by registering their AMP Shares for sale under the Securities Act.  These restrictions do not apply to individuals who are not affiliates of the Company.
 Resources
1
 
Overview
 
 
 
1
       To be completed.
Availability of Certain Information and Incorporation of Documents by Reference
 
Pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), the Company will provide, without charge, upon the written or oral request of any person to whom this Guide is delivered by the Company or one of its affiliated entities to the Corporate Secretary's Office, Ameriprise Financial, Inc., 55 Amerprise Financial Center, Minneapolis, MN 55474, (612) 671-3131, a copy of any of the following documents, all of which are incorporated by reference in this Guide:
(a)   The Company's Registration Statement on Form 10, as amended, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") August 19, 2005 (the "Form 10 Registration Statement");
(b)   All other reports filed by the Company pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act since the end of the fiscal year covered by the Form 10 Registration Statement; and
(c)   The description of the Company's Common Stock contained in the Company's Form 10 Registration Statement, including any amendment or report filed for the purpose of updating such description.
All documents filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act subsequent to the date of the Registration Statement on Form S-8 to which this Guide relates and prior to the filing of a post-effective amendment that indicates that all securities offered hereby have been sold or that deregisters all securities then remaining unsold, shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference in, and to be a part of, this Guide from the date of filing of such documents.  Any statement contained herein or in a document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference herein shall be deemed to be modified or superseded for purposes of this Guide to the extent that a statement contained in any subsequently filed document which also is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference herein modifies or supersedes such statement.  Any such statement so modified or superseded shall not be deemed, except as so modified or superseded, to constitute a part of this Guide.
Nothing in this Guide shall be deemed to incorporate information furnished but not filed with the Commission pursuant to Item 2.02 or Item 7.01 of Form 8-K.
In addition, the Company will provide, without charge, upon the written or oral request of any person to whom this Guide is delivered by the Company or one of its affiliated entities to the Corporate Secretary's Office (contact information noted above), copies of all reports, proxy statements and other communications distributed by the Company to the holders of AMP Shares.
 
 
1.     .   Stock Options, Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit Awards, and other stock-based awards (collectively referred to herein as "Awards") are issued to employees pursuant to the Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time (the "Ameriprise 2005 ICP"), at the discretion and subject to the administration of the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the "Ameriprise CBC").  These Detrimental Conduct Provisions (the "Provisions") supplement the terms of the Ameriprise 2005 ICP and the applicable Award Certificates and Award Agreements issued thereunder, and any other agreement or certificate for the grant of any Awards under the Ameriprise 2005 ICP, and apply to all Awards that have been issued to you under the Ameriprise 2005 ICP, unless the Ameriprise CBC determines otherwise.
Introduction
 
2.     .  If you engage in Detrimental Conduct (as defined below), Awards previously issued to you may be canceled, rescinded or otherwise restricted and the Company (as defined in Paragraph 2(a) below) can recover any payments you received and stock delivered to you in accordance with the terms of Paragraph 3 of these Provisions.  For purposes of these Provisions, "Detrimental Conduct" shall mean the conduct described in Paragraphs 2(a) through 2(g) of these Provisions.
Detrimental Conduct
 
                        (a)   Noncompete.  For a one year period after your last day of active employment if you are a Band 70 or above employee, or for a six-month period after your last day of active employment if you are a Band 50 or 60 employee, and during your employment with Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, the "Company"),
you shall not be employed by, provide advice to or act as a consultant for any Competitor.  The Company has defined Competitor for certain lines of business, departments or job functions by establishing a specific standard and/or by name as set forth in the attached Competitor List.  Your personal list of competitors will be the sum of :
either
 
(i)  all competitors derived from the Standard Competitors column on the Competitor List for the lines of business and departments (under the Line of Business, Department or Job Function column) that you provided services to or managed during the two-year period preceding the date your employment with the Company terminates, or
 
(ii)  if the job function you are employed in at the time your employment with the Company terminates is listed on the Competitor List under the Line of Business, Department or Job Function column, the competitors under the Standard Competitors column of the Competitor List,
 
plus
the Entities (as that term is defined in Paragraph 8 of these Provisions) listed on the Competitor List under the column titled Business Unit Wide Competitors for the business units that you provided services to or managed during the two-year period preceding the date your employment with the Company terminates.  If any line(s) of business you provided services to or managed during the two-year period preceding the date your employment with the Company
terminates is not listed on the Competitor List then, with respect to such line(s) of business, you shall not be employed by, provide advice or act as a consultant for (i) an Entity's line of business that competes with those line(s) of business and (ii) the Entities listed on the Competitor List under the column titled Business Unit Wide Competitors for the business units you provided services to or managed during the two-year period preceding the date your employment with the Company terminates.  Except for Business Unit Wide Competitors, the prohibition against being employed by, providing advice to or acting as a consultant for a Competitor is limited to the line(s) of business of the Competitor that compete with the line(s) of business of the Company that you provided services to or managed.  With respect to Business Unit Wide Competitors, you agree not to be employed by, provide advice or act as a consultant for such Entities in any line of business because these Entities compete with several of the Company's lines of business.  The Company can revise the Competitor List at its discretion at any time and from time to time and as revised will become part of these Provisions.  A copy of the current Competitor List will be available through the Corporate Secretary's Office.  Notwithstanding anything in these Provisions to the contrary, the Company shall not make any additions to the Competitor List for a period of two years following the date of Change in Control (as such term is defined in the Ameriprise 2005 ICP, as amended from time to time, or any successor thereto).
 
        (b)   Nondenigration.  For a one-year period after your last day of active employment ("the Restricted Period") and during your employment with the Company, you or anyone acting at your direction will not denigrate the Company or the Company's employees to the media or financial analysts.  You agree during the Restricted Period not to (i) provide information considered proprietary by the Company to the media or financial analysts or (ii) discuss the Company with the media or financial analysts, without the explicit written permission of the Senior Vice President of Public Affairs, Communications and Government Relations.  This Paragraph shall not be applicable to any truthful statement required to be made by you in any legal proceeding.
 
        (c)   Nonsolicitation of Employees.  During the Restricted Period, you shall not employ or solicit for employment any employee of the Company.  In addition, during the Restricted Period you shall not advise or recommend to any other person that he or she employ or solicit for employment, any person employed by the Company for the purpose of employing that person at an Entity at which you are or are intending to be (i) employed, (ii) a member of the board of directors, or (iii) providing consulting services.
 
        (d)   Nonsolicitation of Customers.  During the Restricted Period you shall not directly or indirectly solicit or enter into any arrangement with any Entity, which is, at the time of such solicitation, a significant customer of the Company for the purpose of engaging in any business transactions of the nature performed or contemplated by the Company.  This Paragraph shall apply only to customers whom you personally serviced while employed by the Company or customers you acquired material information about while employed by the Company.
 
        (e)   Misconduct.  During your employment with the Company, you will not engage in any conduct that results in termination of your employment for Misconduct.  For purposes of this Paragraph 2(e), Misconduct is (i) material violation of the Ameriprise Financial Code of Conduct, (ii) criminal activity, (iii) gross insubordination, and (iv) gross negligence in the
performance of your duties.
 
        (f)    Confidential Information.  During the Restricted Period and during your employment with the Company, you shall not misappropriate or improperly disclose confidential information or trade secrets of the Company and its businesses, including but not limited to information about marketing or business plans, possible acquisitions or divestitures, potential new products or markets and other data not available to the public.
 
        (g)   Other Detrimental Conduct.  During the Restricted Period, you shall not take any actions that the Company reasonably deems detrimental to its interests.  To the extent practicable, the Company will request you to cease and desist or rectify the conduct prior to seeking any legal remedies under this Paragraph and will only seek legal remedies if you do not comply with such request.  This Paragraph shall not be applied to conduct that is otherwise permitted by Paragraphs 2(a) through 2(f).  For example, if you leave the Company's employment to work for an Entity that is not a Competitor under Paragraph 2(a), the Company will not claim that employment with that Entity violates Paragraph 2(g).  Notwithstanding anything in these Provisions to the contrary, this Paragraph 2(g) shall not be applicable to you form and after your last day of active employment, if your employment terminates for any reason (other than for Misconduct, as defined in Paragraph 2(e) above) within two years following a Change in Control (as such term is defined in the Ameriprise 2005 ICP, as amended from time to time, or any successor thereto).
 
3.     .
Detrimental Conduct Remedies
 
        (a)   .  If you fail to comply with the requirements of Paragraphs 2(a) through 2(g) and you are a Band 70 employee or above at the time your employment with the Company terminates, the Company may cancel any outstanding Awards and recover (i) the amount of any gain realized on stock options and stock appreciation rights issued under the Ameriprise 2005 ICP or issued under the American Express Company
Repayment of Financial Gain
1998 Incentive Compensation Plan or the American Express Company 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(together, the "AXP Incentive Plans"), that you have exercised, as of the date you exercised them, (ii) any payments you received for Portfolio Grant Awards or other Awards issued under the Ameriprise 2005 ICP or the AXP Incentive Plans and (iii) stock whose restrictions lapsed (or the value of the stock at the time the restrictions lapsed) pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award or other Award, or any other stock-based award issued under the Ameriprise 2005 ICP or the AXP Incentive Plans, during the last two years you were employed by the Company (including employment with American Express Company).  If you fail to comply with the requirements of Paragraphs 2(a) through 2(g) and you are a Band 50 or 60 employee at the time your employment with the Company terminates, the Company may cancel any outstanding Awards and recover the amount of any gain realized on stock options and stock appreciation rights issued under the Ameriprise 2005 ICP or the AXP Incentive Plans that you have exercised, as of the date you exercised them, which were exercised during the last six months you were employed by the Company, including employment with American Express Company.  If you fail to comply with the requirements of Paragraphs 2(a) through 2(g), you agree to repay the Company in accordance with the terms of this Paragraph 3(a) and the Company shall be entitled to set-off against the amount of any such repayment obligation any
amount owed to you by the Company.
 
        (b)   .  The remedy provided pursuant to Paragraph 3(a) shall be without prejudice to the Company's right to recover any losses resulting from a violation of these Provisions and shall be in addition to whatever other remedies the Company may have, at law or equity, for violating the terms of these Provisions.
Other Remedies
 
4.     .  If you are a Band 50 employee or above, you may be required to obtain written approval to exercise a specified percent all your outstanding vested stock options issued under the Ameriprise 2005 ICP in any 90-day period.  The standard for determining whether to approve your request to exercise options will be whether you are complying and will comply with the requirements of paragraphs 2(a) through 2(g) of these Provisions.  You may contact the Corporate Secretary's Office for additional information on any applicable policies.
Approval to Exercise Options
 
5.     .  If the Company changes its current system of classifying employees in compensation bands and management tiers, the references to Bands 50, 60 and 70, Executive Officers in these Provisions will be construed to mean the compensation level(s) and management tiers in the new or revised system that, in the Company's discretion, most closely approximates these bands and management tiers under the current system.
Compensation Band Changes
 
6.     .  These Provisions will not apply to employees of the Company who enter into a severance agreement with the Company or other involuntary terminations as determined by the Company (excluding termination covered by Paragraph 2(e) hereof).  In the event of a spin-off or a sale of a business, the terms of Paragraph 2(b), 2(c) and 2(f) of these Provisions shall continue to apply during the Restricted Period but the other terms of Paragraph 2 will not continue to apply.
Involuntary Terminations
 
7.     .  If any term of these Provisions is determined by a court or arbitrator of competent jurisdiction not to be enforceable in the manner set forth in these Provisions, that such term should be enforceable to the maximum extent permissible under applicable law and that such court or arbitrator shall reform such term to make it enforceable.
Modification
 
8.     . As used in these Provisions, the word Entity or Entities shall mean any corporation, partnership, association, joint venture, trust, government, governmental agency or authority, person or other organization or entity.
Definition of Entity
 
9.     . The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any term of these Provisions shall not be construed to be a waiver of such term or of any other term.  Any waiver or modification of the terms of these Provisions will only be effective if reduced to writing and signed by both you and the President or Chief Executive Officer of Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
Waivers

Exhibit 10.9
AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL
Effective September 30, 2005, the Board approved the Ameriprise Financial Deferred Share Plan for Outside Directors to (a) provide for the crediting of Deferred Share Units or "DSUs" to Eligible Directors in respect of services rendered by such Participants as members of the Board and (b) permit Eligible Directors to elect to receive a portion of their Director Fees on a deferred basis.  The purpose of the Plan is to provide a means for the deferral by Eligible Directors of the Company of Director Fees and to promote a greater alignment of interests between Eligible Directors and the shareholders of the Company.  This Plan shall be unfunded for tax purposes.
For purposes of the Plan, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the context, the following phrases or terms shall have the meanings indicated in this Article 1:
1.01
                                      
"Account" shall mean, collectively, a Participant's Stock Account and a Participant's Cash Account, in each case as established under the terms and conditions of the Plan.
1.02
                                      
"Amended Annual Election Form" shall mean the Amended Annual Election Form required by the Committee to be signed and submitted by a Participant to effect a permitted change in the elections previously made by the Participant under any Annual Election Form.
1.03
                                   
"Amended Beneficiary Designation Form" shall mean the Amended Beneficiary Designation Form required by the Committee to be signed and submitted by a Participant to effect a permitted change in the designation of a Participant's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries previously made by the Participant under any Beneficiary Designation Form.
1.04
                                      
"Amended Distribution Election Form" shall mean the Amended Distribution Election Form required by the Committee to be signed and submitted by a Participant to effect a permitted change in the Distribution Election previously made by the Participant under any Distribution Election Form.
1.05
                                      
"Annual DSU Grant" shall mean the annual grant to an Eligible Director of DSUs, which will be automatically credited to a Director's Stock Account on an annual basis in accordance with Section 3.01 of the Plan.
1.06
                                      
"Annual Election Form" shall mean the Annual Election Form required by the Committee to be signed and submitted by a Participant in connection with the Participant's deferral election with respect to a given Plan Year.
1.07
                                      
"Annual Fee" shall mean, with respect to an Eligible Director, such Eligible Director's annual cash retainer fee
1.08
                                      
"Annual Elective Deferral" shall mean the aggregate amount electively deferred by a Participant in respect of a particular Plan Year under Section 3.02.
1.09
                                      
"Beneficiary" shall mean one or more persons, trusts, estates or other entities, designated in accordance with Article 6, that are entitled to receive a distribution of a Participant's Account under the Plan in the event of the Participant's death.
1.10
                                      
"Beneficiary Designation Form" shall mean the Beneficiary Designation Form or Amended Beneficiary Designation Form last signed and submitted by a Participant and accepted by the Committee.
1.11
                                      
"Board" shall mean the board of directors of the Company.
1.12
                                      
"Cash Account" shall mean a notional, bookkeeping account established under the Plan for a Participant to measure the value of any portion of a Participant's Annual Elective Deferral for a Plan Year that is not deemed to be invested in Stock Units.
1.13
                                      
"Cash Account Interest Rate" shall mean Moody's Composite Yield on Seasoned Aaa Corporate Bonds.
1.14
                                      
"Change in Control" has the meaning set forth in the Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan; , notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur under the Plan as a result of any event or transaction to the extent that treating such event or transaction as a Change in Control under the Plan would cause any tax to become due under Section 409A of the Code.
provided
that
1.15
                                      
"Claimant" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.01.
1.16
                                      
"Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time, and all regulations, interpretations and administrative guidance issued thereunder.
1.17
                                      
"Committee" shall mean the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company or such other committee designated by the Board to administer the Plan.
1.18
                                      
"Company" shall mean Ameriprise Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor to all or substantially all of its assets or business.
1.19
                                      
"Company Stock" shall mean the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company.
1.20
                                      
"Deferred Share Unit" or "DSU" shall mean a unit credited to a Participant's Stock Account in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan.  Each DSU shall represent the right to receive a share of Company Stock at the time or times designated in the Plan.
1.21
                                      
"Distribution Election" shall mean an election made in accordance with Section 2 of the Plan.
1.22
                                      
"Distribution Election Form" shall mean the Distribution Election Form required by the Committee to be signed and submitted by a Participant with respect to a Distribution Election.
1.23
                                      
"Election Form" shall mean, with respect to the portion of any Account that relates to a Participant's Annual Elective Deferrals under the Plan, the Annual Election Form or the Amended Annual Election Form last signed and submitted by the Participant and accepted by the Committee with respect to that Account.
1.24
                                      
"Eligible Compensation" shall mean annual retainer fees, chair retainer fees and any other cash compensation payable to Eligible Directors.
1.25
                                      
"Eligible Director" shall mean a member of the Board who is not also an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.
1.26
                                      
"Enrollment Forms" shall mean, for any Plan Year, the Annual Election Form, the Distribution Election Form, the Beneficiary Designation Form and any other forms or documents which may be required of a Participant by the Committee, in its sole discretion.
1.27
                                      
"Market Value" of a share of Company Stock shall mean the fair market value thereof, which shall be the price per common share which is equal to the average closing price for a board lot of Company Stock on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") during the five trading days immediately preceding the date of determination.  If at any time the Company Stock is no longer listed or traded on the NYSE, the Market Value shall be calculated in such manner as may be determined by the Committee from time to time.
1.28
                                      
"Participant" shall mean any Eligible Director who commences participation in the Plan and whose participation in the Plan has not terminated.  A spouse or former spouse of a Participant shall not be treated as a Participant in the Plan or have an account balance under the Plan, even if he or she has an interest in the Participant's benefits under the Plan as a result of applicable law or property settlements resulting from legal separation or divorce.
1.29
                                      
"Plan" shall mean the Ameriprise Financial Deferred Share Plan for Outside Directors, which shall be evidenced by this instrument and by each Enrollment Form, as they may be amended from time to time.
1.30
                                      
"Plan Year" shall mean the period beginning on January 1 of each year and ending on December 31 of such year.
1.31
                                      
"Pro Rata Annual DSU Grant" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(c) of the Plan.
1.32
                                      
"Pro Rata Annual Fee" shall mean, with respect to an Eligible Director, the product obtained by multiplying such Eligible Director's annual cash retainer fee by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full months in the applicable Service Period that follow the date on which such Eligible Director first becomes an Eligible Director under the Plan and the denominator of which is twelve; provided, that with respect to the Service Period that commences on September 30, 2005, the denominator for purposes of calculating the Pro Rata Annual Fee will be equal to the number of full months from September 30, 2005 through the first Annual Meeting of Shareholders at which the shareholders elect directors to the Board that occurs after September 30, 2005.
1.33
                                      
"Quarter" shall mean any of the four quarters of any financial year of the Company as may be adopted from time to time and, until the financial year of the Company is changed, shall mean the quarters ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31.
1.34
                                      
"Reference Date" shall mean the date used to determine the Market Value of a share of Company Stock for purposes of determining the number of DSUs to be credited to a Participant's Stock Account.  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and approved by the Board, the Reference Date shall be:  (a) with respect to the Annual DSU Grant made in 2005, the fifth trading day following September 30, 2005, (b) with respect to an Annual DSU Grant made in any Plan Year commencing on or after January 1, 2006, the date of the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders at which the shareholders elect directors to the Board, (c) with respect to a Pro Rata Annual DSU Grant, the fifth trading day following the release by the Company of its financial statements for the Quarter in which the applicable Eligible Director first becomes an Eligible Director, (d) with respect to the portion of a Participant's Annual Elective Deferral that is notionally invested in DSUs in respect of any Quarter, the fifth trading day following the release by the Company of its financial statements for such Quarter, and (e) with respect to an Eligible Director's election pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Plan to notionally invest a portion of the funds in his or her Cash Account in DSUs, the fifth trading day following the release by the Company of its financial statements for the applicable Quarter to which the election relates.
1.35
                                      
"Service Period" shall mean the twelve-month period between the Company's Annual Meetings of Shareholders at which the shareholders elect directors to the Board; provided, that, the first Service Period under the Plan will be the period commencing on September 30, 2005 and will continue until the first Annual Meeting of Shareholders at which the shareholders elect directors to the Board that occurs after September 30, 2005.
1.36
                                      
"Settlement Date" shall mean, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the date on which shares of Company Stock shall be delivered in settlement of DSUs in accordance with Article 4 hereof.
1.37
                                      
"Stock Account" shall mean a notional, bookkeeping account established under the Plan for a Participant to measure the value of (a) any portion of a Participant's Annual Elective Deferral for a Plan Year that is deemed to be invested in DSUs and (b) all DSUs credited to the Participant in connection with his or her Annual DSU Grant or Pro Rata Annual DSU Grant.
1.38
                                      
"Survivor Benefit" shall mean the benefit set forth in Article 6.
1.39
                                      
"Termination of Service" shall mean, with respect to a Participant, the termination of such Participant's service on the Board, voluntarily or involuntarily, under circumstances that would constitute a "separation from service" for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.
                    2.01                     Eligibility.  All Eligible Directors shall participate in the Plan.  An Annual DSU Grant or Pro Rata Annual DSU Grant will be credited to the Stock Account of each Eligible Director on an annual basis pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Plan.  In addition, each Eligible Director may elect to make an Annual Elective Deferral in respect of each Plan Year in accordance with, and subject to the procedures set forth in, the Plan.
                   
2.02                     Enrollment Forms related to Automatic Crediting of DSUs.  Each Eligible Director will complete, execute and return to the Committee a Beneficiary Designation Form, which will remain in full force and effect with respect to all DSUs that are automatically credited to the Eligible Director's Stock Account pursuant to Section 3.01 (as adjusted to take into account the payment of dividends) for all Plan Years unless amended by the Eligible Director in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
                    2.03                     Enrollment Requirements for Annual Elective Deferrals.  As a condition to being eligible to make an Annual Elective Deferral for any Plan Year, each Eligible Director shall be required to complete, execute and return to the Committee each of the required Enrollment Forms no later than the last day of the immediately preceding Plan Year (or such earlier date as the Committee may establish from time to time).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Eligible Director who first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan during any Plan Year, such Eligible Director shall complete, execute and return to the Committee or its designee each of the required Enrollment Forms no later than thirty (30) days following the date on which such Eligible Director first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan (or such earlier date as the Committee may establish from time to time) provided that such Annual Elective Deferral shall apply only with respect to services performed subsequent to the time such Enrollment Forms are accepted by the Committee.  Each Eligible Director shall have on file with the Committee or its designee a completed Beneficiary Designation Form prior to the date
specified by the Committee, and the Committee shall establish from time to time such other enrollment requirements as it determines necessary, in its sole discretion.
                                Provided an Eligible Director in respect of a particular Plan Year has met all enrollment requirements set forth in the Plan and any other requirements imposed by the Committee, including signing and submitting all Enrollment Forms to the Committee or its designee within the specified time period, the Eligible Director's designated deferrals shall commence as of the date established by the Committee in its sole discretion.  If an Eligible Director fails to meet all such requirements within the specified time period with respect to any Plan Year, the Eligible Director shall not be eligible to make any deferrals for that Plan Year.
                    2.04                     Subsequent Elections for Annual Elective Deferrals.  The Enrollment Forms submitted by a Participant in respect of such Participant's elective deferrals for a particular Plan Year will not be effective with respect to any subsequent Plan Year, except that the Beneficiary Designation Form on file with the Committee will remain effective for all subsequent Plan Years unless and until an Amended Beneficiary Designation Form is submitted.  If an Eligible Director is eligible to make elective deferrals under the Plan for a subsequent Plan Year and the required Enrollment Forms are not timely delivered for the subsequent Plan Year, the Participant shall not be eligible to make any elective deferrals with respect to such subsequent Plan Year.
3.01                     Automatic Annual DSU Grant.
(a)         Establishment of Stock Account.  A Stock Account will be established under the Plan for each Eligible Director at the time that he or she becomes an Eligible Director.
(b)         Automatic Crediting of Annual DSU Grant.  An Annual DSU Grant will be made at the commencement of each Service Period to all persons who are Eligible Directors on the Reference Date for such Annual DSU Grant.  The Annual DSU Grant will be automatically credited to each Eligible Director's Stock Account on the Reference Date and will equal the quotient determined by dividing: (a) the Eligible Director's Annual Fee by (b) the Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the Reference Date for such Annual DSU Grant.  Fractional DSUs will be credited to an Eligible Director's Stock Account rounded to three decimal places.  The first Annual DSU Grant will be made under the Plan in respect of the Service Period commencing on September 30, 2005.
(c)         Crediting of Pro Rata Annual DSU Grant.  An Eligible Director who first becomes an Eligible Director in a Service Period after the Reference Date for the Annual DSU Grant made in respect of such Service Period has occurred will be eligible to receive a "Pro Rata Annual DSU Grant" for such Service Period.  The Pro Rata Annual DSU Grant will be credited to the Eligible Director's Stock Account on the Reference Date for such Pro Rata Annual DSU Grant and will equal the quotient determined by dividing: (a) the Eligible Director's Pro Rata Annual Fee by (b) the Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the Reference Date for
such Pro Rata Annual DSU Grant.  Fractional DSUs will be credited to an Eligible Director's Stock Account rounded to three decimal places.
(d)         A Participant who becomes an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or who, as a result of a determination by the Committee, shall no longer be eligible to continue to participate in the Plan, shall not be entitled to receive any additional Annual DSU Grants under this Section 3.01 in respect of any of his or her future fees.  DSUs already credited to any such Participant's Stock Account in respect of past Annual DSU Grants shall remain governed by the Plan and the Annual Election Form (or Amended Annual Election Form) on file for such Participant, and such Participant shall be entitled to continue to have DSUs credited to such Participant's Stock Account under Section 3.04 until such Participant's Settlement Date.
3.02                     Participant Elective Deferrals.
(a)                       Deferral Election.  The Committee shall have sole discretion to determine the terms and conditions applicable to the Annual Elective Deferral.  To the extent permitted by the Committee and subject to the terms and conditions provided by the Committee, a Participant for a given Plan Year may make an election to defer the receipt of amounts payable to the Participant in the form of compensation for services rendered during that Plan Year.  The Participant's election shall be evidenced by an Annual Election Form completed and submitted to the Committee in accordance with the procedures and time frames as may be established by the Committee in its sole discretion.
(b)                       Crediting of Account.  The amounts deferred by a Participant in respect of services rendered during a Plan Year shall be referred to collectively as the "Annual Elective Deferral."  The Annual Elective Deferral shall be credited on a quarterly basis to the Participant's Stock Account and Cash Account, as determined in accordance with the Participant's investment election pursuant to Section 3.02(d), with such crediting to occur on the Reference Date in respect of each Quarter.
(c)                       Minimum and Maximum Deferrals.  In respect of the Plan Year that commences on January 1, 2006, (i) an Eligible Director who elects to make an elective deferral under the Plan must elect to defer at least twenty-five percent (25%) of his or her Eligible Compensation and (ii) an Eligible Director may elect to defer up to 100% of his or her Eligible Compensation in increments of twenty-fine percent (25%) of his or her Eligible Compensation.  In respect of Plan Years commencing on or after January 1, 2007, the Committee may designate different minimum and maximum amounts that an Eligible Director may elect to defer under the Plan.
(d)                       Investment Election.  Each Eligible Director who elects to make an
Annual Elective Deferral under the Plan will be required to designate, at the time that he or she makes an Annual Investment Election, the portion of the Annual Elective Deferral that will be notionally invested in DSUs, which may be zero (0).  If a Participant elects to notionally invest a portion of his or her Annual Elective Deferral in DSUs, the number of DSUs that will be credited to a Participant's Stock Account in respect of his or her Annual Elective Deferral will be determined quarterly on the Reference Date and credited to such Participant's Stock Account as of such date, and will be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (a) the amount of the Annual
Elective Deferral for such Quarter that the Participant has notionally elected to invest in DSUs by (b) the Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the Reference Date for such Quarter.  Any portion of the Participant's Annual Elective Deferral that is not notionally invested in DSUs will be credited to the Participant's Cash Account, where it will earn interest at the Cash Account Interest Rate.
3.03                     Changes to Investment Elections.  A Participant may, on a Quarterly basis, elect to notionally invest a portion of the funds notionally invested in his or her Cash Account in DSUs at such times as the Committee may designate by completing and submitting to the Committee an Amended Election Form in accordance with such procedure and time frames as may be established from time to time at the sole discretion of the Committee.  In connection with any such election, the Participant's Cash Account will be debited by the amount the Participant designates for notional investment in DSUs (the "DSU Investment Amount"), and the Participant's Stock Account will be increased by a number of DSUs determined by dividing the DSU Investment Amount by the Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the applicable Reference Date.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, a Participant may not at any time make any changes with respect to the amounts credited to the Participant's Stock Account in the form of DSUs pursuant to Section 3.01 or with respect to the portion of the Participant's Annual Elective Deferral that he or she elects to notionally invest in DSUs pursuant to Section 3.02 or 3.03, in each case as adjusted pursuant to Section 3.04.
                    3.04                     Dividends and Related Amounts.  A Participant's Stock Account shall, from time to time during such Participant's period of participation under the Plan, including during the period following the Participant's Termination of Service and until the Settlement Date, be credited on each dividend payment date in respect of Company Stock with additional DSUs, the number of which shall be equal to the quotient determined by dividing (a) the product determined by multiplying (i) one hundred percent (100%) of each dividend declared and paid by the Company on the Company Stock on a per share basis by (ii) the number of DSUs recorded in the Participant's Accounts on the record date for the payment of any such dividend, by (b) the Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the dividend payment date for such dividend, in each case, with fractions computed to three decimal places.
 
                In the event of any change in the capitalization of the Company, the Committee may make such adjustments in the DSUs credited to Participants' Stock Account on the date on which such change occurs and in such other terms of such DSUs as the Committee may consider appropriate.
4.01                     Distribution Elections with respect to Annual Elective Deferrals.
(a)                       Initial Elections.  The Participant shall make a Distribution Election at the times set forth in Section 2 of the Plan to have the Participant's Cash Account and the portion of the Participant's Stock Account that relates to his or her Annual Elective Deferrals distributed in incrementally increasing ratios (, 1/5, 1/4, 1/3, 1/2, 1) as follows:
e.g.
(i)            Lump sum payment at the end of the Quarter immediately following the Quarter in which the Participant's Termination of Service occurs;
 
(ii)           Lump sum payment on March 31 of a specified year; or
 
(iii)          Annual installment payments following the Termination of Service.  If this option is elected, the first installment will be paid at the end of the Quarter that follows the Quarter in which the Participant's Termination of Service occurs and all future installments will be paid on March 31 of a given year, commencing on the March 31 of the year following the year in which the initial installment distribution is made.
(b)                       Subsequent Elections.   A Participant may amend his or her Distribution Election in accordance with such procedures as may be adopted by the Committee from time to time.
                    4.02                     Distribution of Annual DSU Grant. 
The portion of a Participant's Stock Account that relates to the Participant's Annual DSU Grant shall be distributed in a lump sum at the end of the Quarter immediately following the Quarter in which the Participant's Termination of Service occurs.
                    4.03                     Payment on a Change in Control.  Nothwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in a Participant's Annual Distribution Election Form or the Plan, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Company will distribute all previously undistributed amounts under the Plan to Participants (or their Beneficiaries, as the case may be).
                   
4.04                     Form of Payment.  Except as may be otherwise determined by the Committee, all distributions under the Plan with respect to DSUs credited to the Participant's Stock Account will be made in Company Stock.  All distributions under the Plan with respect to amounts credited to a Participant's Cash Account will be paid in cash.  Except as may be
otherwise determined by the Board, all distributions under the Plan in the form of Company Stock shall be distributed pursuant to the Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan or any successor plan thereto.
                    5.01                     Survivor Benefit. A Participant's Beneficiary shall receive a Survivor Benefit equal to the Participant's Accounts, if the Participant dies before he or she has received a complete distribution of his or her Accounts.
                    5.02                     Payment of Survivor Benefit.  The Survivor Benefit shall be payable to the Beneficiary indicated on the Participant's Beneficiary Designation Form in a lump sum payment.  Subject to Article 5, the lump sum payment will be made as soon as practical after the date on which the Committee is notified in writing of the Participant's death.
                    6.01                     Beneficiary.  Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate his or her Beneficiary(ies) (both primary as well as contingent) to receive any benefits payable under the Plan to a beneficiary upon the death of a Participant.  The Beneficiary designated under the Plan may be the same as or different from the Beneficiary designation under any other plan or arrangement in which the Participant participates.
                    6.02                     Beneficiary Designation; Change.  A Participant shall designate his or her Beneficiary by completing and signing a Beneficiary Designation Form, and returning it to the Committee or its designated agent.  A Participant shall have the right to change a Beneficiary by completing, signing and submitting to the Committee an Amended Beneficiary Designation Form in accordance with the Committee's rules and procedures, as in effect from time to time.  Upon the acceptance by the Committee of an Amended Beneficiary Designation Form, all Beneficiary designations previously filed shall be canceled.  The Committee shall be entitled to rely on the last Beneficiary Designation Form filed by the Participant and accepted by the Committee prior to his or her death.
                    6.03                     Acknowledgment.  No designation or change in designation of a Beneficiary shall be effective until received, accepted and acknowledged in writing by the Committee or its designated agent.
                    6.04                     No Beneficiary Designation.  If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above or, if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or die prior to complete distribution of the Participant's Accounts, then the Participant's designated Beneficiary shall be deemed to be his or her surviving spouse.  If the Participant has no surviving spouse, the benefits remaining under the Plan to be paid to a Beneficiary shall be payable to the executor or personal representative of the Participant's estate.
                    6.05                     Doubt as to Beneficiary.  If the Committee has any doubt as to the proper Beneficiary to receive payments pursuant to the Plan, the Committee shall have the right, exercisable in its discretion, to cause the Company to withhold such payments until this matter is resolved to the Committee's satisfaction.
                    6.06                     Discharge of Obligations.  The payment of benefits under the Plan to a Beneficiary shall fully and completely discharge the Company and the Committee from all further obligations under the Plan with respect to the Participant, and each of the Participant's Annual Election Forms shall terminate upon such full payment of benefits.
                    7.01                     Termination.  Although the Company anticipates that it will continue the Plan for an indefinite period of time, there is no guarantee that the Company will continue the Plan or will not terminate the Plan at any time in the future.  Accordingly, the Company reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time or to terminate an Eligible Director's participation in
the Plan.  Upon the termination of the Plan, all amounts credited to each of the Accounts of each affected Participant shall be paid to the Participant or, in the case of the Participant's death, to the Participant's Beneficiary, in a lump sum notwithstanding any elections made by the Participant, and the Annual Election Forms relating to each of the Participant's Accounts shall terminate upon full payment of such Accounts, except that the Company shall not have any right to so accelerate the payment of any amount to the extent such right would cause the Plan to fail to comply with, or cause a Participant or such Participant's Beneficiary to be subject to a tax under, the provisions of Section 409A of the Code.
                    7.02                     Amendment.  The Company may, at any time, amend or modify the Plan in whole or in part by the actions of the Committee; provided, however, that (i) no amendment or modification shall be effective to decrease or restrict the value of a Participant's Aggregate Vested Balance in existence at the time the amendment or modification is made, calculated as if the Participant had experienced a Termination of Service as of the effective date of the amendment or modification and (ii) except as specifically provided in the Plan, no amendment or modification shall be made after a Change in Control which adversely affects the calculation or payment of benefits hereunder or diminishes any other rights or protections any Participant or Beneficiary would have had but for such amendment or modification, unless each affected Participant or Beneficiary consents in writing to such amendment.
                    7.03                     Effect of Payment.  The full payment of the applicable benefit under the provisions of the Plan shall completely discharge all obligations to a Participant and his or her designated Beneficiaries under the Plan and each of the Participant's Annual Election Forms shall terminate.
                    8.01                     Committee Duties.  This Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  Members of the Committee may be Participants under the Plan.  The Committee shall also have the discretion and authority to (i) make, amend, interpret, and enforce all appropriate rules and regulations for the administration of the Plan and (ii) decide or resolve any and all questions including interpretations of the Plan, as may arise in connection with the Plan.  Any individual serving on the Committee who is a Participant shall not vote or act on any matter relating solely to himself or herself.  When making a determination or calculation, the Committee shall be entitled to rely on information furnished by a Participant or the Company.
                    8.02                     Agents.  In the administration of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, employ agents and delegate to them such administrative duties as it sees fit (including acting through a duly appointed representative) and may from time to time consult with counsel who may be counsel to the Company.
                    8.03                     Binding Effect of Decisions.  The decision or action of the Committee with respect to any question arising out of or in connection with the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan and the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder shall be final and conclusive and binding upon all persons having any interest in the Plan.
                    8.04                     Indemnity of Committee.  The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless the members of the Committee and any of its designees to whom duties of the Committee may be delegated, against any and all claims, losses, damages, expenses or liabilities arising from any action or failure to act with respect to the Plan, except in the case of willful misconduct by the Committee or any of its members or any such designee.
                    8.05                     No Registration.  The Company shall be under no obligation to effect the registration pursuant to the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 of any shares of Company Stock to be issued hereunder or to effect similar compliance under any state laws.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company shall not be obligated to cause to be issued or delivered any certificates evidencing shares of Company Stock pursuant to the Plan unless and until the Company is advised by its counsel that the issuance and delivery of such certificates is in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authority and the requirements of any securities exchange on which shares of Company Stock are traded.  The Committee may require, as a condition to the issuance and delivery of certificates evidencing shares of Company Stock pursuant to the terms hereof, that the recipient of such shares make such covenants, agreements and representations, and that such certificates bear such legends, as the Committee deems necessary or desirable.
The benefits provided for a Participant and Participant's Beneficiary under the Plan are in addition to any other benefits available to such Participant under any other plan or program made available to Participants.  The Plan shall supplement and shall not supersede, modify or amend any other such plan or program except as may otherwise be expressly provided.
                    10.01                   Presentation of Claim.  Any Participant or Beneficiary of a deceased Participant (such Participant or Beneficiary being referred to below as a "Claimant") may deliver to the Committee a written claim for a determination with respect to the amounts distributable to such Claimant from the Plan.  If such a claim relates to the contents of a notice received by the Claimant, the claim must be made within sixty (60) days after such notice was received by the Claimant.  The claim must state with particularity the determination desired by the Claimant.  All other claims must be made within one hundred eighty (180) days of the date on which the event that caused the claim to arise occurred.  The claim must state with particularity the determination desired by the Claimant.
                    10.02                   Notification of Decision.  The Committee shall consider a Claimant's claim within a reasonable time, and shall notify the Claimant in writing:
(a)                       that the Claimant's requested determination has been made, and that the claim has been allowed in full; or
(b)                          that the Committee has reached a conclusion contrary, in whole or in part, to the Claimant's requested determination, and such notice must set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant:
(i)             the specific reason(s) for the denial of the claim, or any part of it;
(ii)
                                 
specific reference(s) to pertinent provisions of the Plan upon which such denial was based;
(iii)
                              
a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect the claim, and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; and
(iv)
                             
an explanation of the claim review procedure set forth in Section 10.03 below.
   10.03  
                       
Review of a Denied Claim.  Within sixty (60) days after receiving a notice from the Committee that a claim has been denied, in whole or in part, a Claimant (or the Claimant's duly authorized representative) may file with the Committee a written request for a review of the denial of the claim.  Thereafter, but not later than thirty (30) days after the review procedure began, the Claimant (or the Claimant's duly authorized representative):
                                                                                                                                               
(a)       may review pertinent documents;
                                                           
(b)       may submit written comments or other documents; and/or
                                                           
(c)       may request a hearing, which the Committee, in its sole discretion, may grant.
   10.04  
                       
Decision on Review.  The Committee shall render its decision on review promptly, and not later than sixty (60) days after the filing of a written request for review of the denial, unless a hearing is held or other special circumstances require additional time, in which case the Committee's decision must be rendered within one hundred twenty (120) days after such date.  Such decision must be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant, and it must contain:
                                                                                                                                               
(a)       specific reasons for the decision;
(b)       specific reference(s) to the pertinent Plan provisions upon which the decision was based; and
                                                           
(c)       such other matters as the Committee deems relevant.
   10.05  
                       
Arbitration.  A Claimant's compliance with the foregoing provisions of this Article 10 is a mandatory prerequisite to a Claimant's right to commence any arbitration with respect to any claim for benefits under the Plan.  Any and all claims that are not resolved to the satisfaction of a Claimant under the above provisions of this Article 10 shall be subject to arbitration conducted in the State of Minnesota, Hennepin County, and shall be administered by, and pursuant to the Commercial Arbitration Rules and Mediation Procedures of, the American
Arbitration Association ("AAA").  Unless otherwise provided herein each party shall bear its own costs and expenses in connection with such arbitration and the parties shall contribute equally the arbitrator's fees.  The arbitrator's decision in any dispute shall be final and binding and shall not be subject to appeal or judicial review.
                    11.01                   Status of Plan.  The Plan is intended to be a plan that is not qualified within the meaning of Code Section 401(a).  The Plan shall be administered and interpreted to the extent possible in a manner consistent with that intent.  All Accounts and all credits and other adjustments to such Accounts shall be bookkeeping entries only and shall be utilized solely as a device for the measurement and determination of amounts to be paid under the Plan.  No Accounts, credits or other adjustments under the Plan shall be interpreted as an indication that any benefits under the Plan are in any way funded.  In addition, the Committee shall use its reasonable best efforts to interpret and administer the Plan in a manner that satisfies the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
                    11.02                   Unsecured General Creditor.  Participants and their Beneficiaries, heirs, successors and assigns shall have no legal or equitable rights, interests or claims in any property or assets of the Company.  For purposes of the payment of benefits under the Plan, any and all of the Company's assets, shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged unrestricted assets of the Company.   The Company's obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future.
                    11.03                   Nonassignability.  Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate, alienate or convey in advance of actual receipt, the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are expressly declared to be, unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure, attachment, garnishment or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency or be transferable to a spouse as a result of a property settlement or otherwise.
                    11.04                   Nothing in the Plan or any Annual Election Form shall be deemed to give a Participant the right to continue to be retained in the service of the Company.
                    11.05                   Furnishing Information.  A Participant or his or her Beneficiary will cooperate with the Committee by furnishing any and all information requested by the Committee and take such other actions as may be requested in order to facilitate the administration of the Plan and the payments of benefits hereunder, including but not limited to taking such physical examinations as the Committee may deem necessary.
                    11.06                   Terms.  Whenever any words are used herein in the masculine, they shall be construed as though they were in the feminine in all cases where they would so apply; and
whenever any words are used herein in the singular or in the plural, they shall be construed as though they were used in the plural or the singular, as the case may be, in all cases where they would so apply.
                    11.07                   Captions.  The captions of the articles, sections and paragraphs of the Plan are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of its provisions.
                    11.08                   Governing Law.  The provisions of the Plan shall be construed and interpreted according to the internal laws of the State of New York without regard to its conflicts of laws principles.
                    11.09                   Notice.  Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Committee under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail, to the address below:
 
Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
361 Ameriprise Financial Center
Minneapolis, Minnesota  55474
Attn:  VP, Compensation and Benefits with a copy to:  General Counsel's Office
Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or the receipt for registration or certification.
Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to a Participant under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by mail, to the last known address of the Participant.
                    11.10                   Successors.  The provisions of the Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company and its successors and assigns and the Participant and the Participant's designated Beneficiaries.
                    11.11                   Spouse's Interest.  The interest in the benefits hereunder of a spouse of a Participant who has predeceased the Participant shall automatically pass to the Participant and shall not be transferable by such spouse in any manner, including but not limited to such spouse's will, nor shall such interest pass under the laws of intestate succession.
                    11.12                   Validity.  In case any provision of the Plan shall be illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts hereof, but the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal or invalid provision had never been inserted herein.
                    11.13                   Incompetent.  If the Committee determines in its discretion that a benefit under the Plan is to be paid to a minor, a person declared incompetent or to a person incapable of handling the disposition of that person's property, the Committee may direct payment of such benefit to the guardian, legal representative or person having the care and custody of such minor,
incompetent or incapable person.  The Committee may require proof of minority, incompetence, incapacity or guardianship, as it may deem appropriate prior to distribution of the benefit.  Any payment of a benefit shall be a payment for the Account of the Participant and the Participant's Beneficiary, as the case may be, and shall be a complete discharge of any liability under the Plan for such payment amount.
                    11.14                   Distribution in the Event of Taxation.  If, for any reason, all or any portion of a Participant's benefit under the Plan becomes taxable to the Participant prior to receipt, a Participant may petition the Committee before a Change in Control, or the trustee of the Trust after a Change in Control, for a distribution of that portion of his or her benefit that has become taxable.  Upon the grant of such a petition, which grant shall not be unreasonably withheld, the Company shall distribute to the Participant immediately available funds in an amount equal to the taxable portion of his or her benefit (which amount shall not exceed a Participant's unpaid Account Balances under the Plan).  If the petition is granted, the tax liability distribution shall be made within ninety (90) days of the date when the Participant's petition is granted.  Such a distribution shall affect and reduce the benefits to be paid under the Plan.
                    11.15                   Legal Fees To Enforce Rights After Change in Control.  The Company is aware that upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Board (which might then be composed of new members) or a shareholder of the Company, or of any successor corporation might then cause or attempt to cause the Company or such successor to refuse to comply with its obligations under the Plan and might cause or attempt to cause the Company to institute, or may institute, arbitration or litigation seeking to deny Participants the benefits intended under the Plan.  In these circumstances, the purpose of the Plan could be frustrated.  Accordingly, if, following a Change in Control, it should appear to any Participant that the Company or any successor corporation has failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Plan or any agreement thereunder or, if the Company or any other person takes any action to declare the Plan void or unenforceable or institutes any arbitration, litigation or other legal action designed to deny, diminish or to recover from any Participant the benefits intended to be provided, then the Company irrevocably authorize such Participant to retain counsel of his or her choice at the expense of the Company to represent such Participant in connection with the initiation or defense of any arbitration, litigation or other legal action, whether by or against the Company or any director, officer, shareholder or other person affiliated with the Company or any successor thereto in any jurisdiction; provided, however, that in the event that the trier in any such legal action determines that the Participant's claim was not made in good faith or was wholly without merit, the Participant shall return to the Company any amount received pursuant to this Section 11.15.

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
        
New YorkOct. 3, 2005
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (NYSE: AMP) Chairman and CEO James Cracchiolo will ring the opening bell on the New York Stock Exchange today to begin the first trading day of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. as an independent, public company.
        Ameriprise Financial was officially spun off from American Express Company on Friday, September 30. The former American Express Financial Advisors unit begins trading as a member of the S&P 500, and a leader in financial planning, asset management and insurance.
        "Today, Ameriprise Financial begins a momentous new chapter in the company's 111-year history," said Cracchiolo. "This is a great opportunity for us to take control of our own destiny as a company just as we help our clients take charge of their own financial destiny."
        As a result of the spin-off, American Express shareholders received one share of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. common stock for every five shares of common stock they hold in American Express Company. Approximately 246 million shares of Ameriprise Financial were distributed Friday to shareholders of American Express, which had owned the company since 1984. Those shares can be traded in the open market beginning today.
        Ameriprise Financial will be comparable to approximately number 300 within the Fortune 500. It has more than 2.5 million clients, either directly through its network of more than 10,500 financial advisors or through corporate and institutional strategic alliances. The company has the largest number of certified financial planner  professionals in the industry and more than $410 billion in assets owned, managed and administered, as of June 30, 2005.
1
        Ameriprise Financial's focus is comprehensive financial planning and personalized long-term relationships supported by investment and insurance products to address clients' needs. The company recently launched a broad-based advertising campaign to reach mass affluent consumers mostly made up of individuals from the baby boom generation.
        "The greatest need of baby boomers is retirement advice," said Cracchiolo. "We help get them on track to achieve their retirement dreams and enjoy the next phase of their life."
        On Aug. 1, the company formerly known as American Express Financial Advisors changed its name to Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. The Ameriprise Financial brand is also used for the parent company, as well as for selected businesses including Ameriprise Retirement Services, Ameriprise Certificate Company, Ameriprise Auto & Home and Ameriprise Trust Company. The company's personal financial advisors do business as the Personal Advisors of Ameriprise Financial.
        Within the overall Ameriprise Financial brand, the company's insurance, annuity, asset management and outside distribution businesses operate under the brand name RiverSource.
SM
        For more information, visit .
www.ameriprise.com
        1.     Ranking not yet availablecomparison based on 2004 financial information and Fortune Magazine's 2005 rankings.
        Securities and financial advisory services are offered through Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc.., Member NASD & SIPC.
        Forward Looking Statements
        This press release contains "forward-looking statements." Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts, and can generally be identified by the use of words such as "may," "should," "could," "expects," "seek to," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "estimates," "intends," "predicts," "projects," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of such terms and other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the company or its industry's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievement expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, please see the company's registration statement on Form 10, dated August 19, 2005, which is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluation the information presented in this presentation. The company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein, to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto, or any other change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any statement is based.


