FILE:AMP/AMP-8K-20060410172735.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (seeGeneral Instruction A.2. below):
 
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
During the first quarter of 2006, we completed the implementation of a new automated internal business unit revenue and expense reporting process that enables us to enhance our internal allocation methodologies. In addition to the changes resulting from the automation, changes resulting from our enhanced internal allocation methodologies are included in the reallocated 2005 segment information. This reflects how management currently views and evaluates the operations of our two main operating segments, Asset Accumulation and Income ("AA&I") and Protection. As part of our ongoing efforts to improve the transparency of our financial results, Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is providing pro forma reallocated 2005 quarterly segment financial information that we believe facilitates comparison with how we expect to report our first quarter 2006 earnings. Consolidated financial information for all periods shown is not impacted by these changes.
 
The reallocated quarterly information also reflects the reporting of our subsidiary Securities America Financial Corporation ("SAFC") in the AA&I segment. SAFC was previously included in the Corporate and Other and Eliminations ("Corporate") segment. In 2005, we enhanced our capabilities to distribute products through third parties, and believe that this entity can play an increasingly important role in our third party distribution strategy. As a result, we are reflecting SAFC results in our core AA&I segment. Consolidated financial information for all periods shown is not impacted by this change.
 
We are also providing quarterly adjusted consolidated and adjusted Protection segment financials for each quarter and full year 2005 in the attached exhibit. Management believes that the presentation of "adjusted" financial information best reflects the underlying performance of our ongoing operations. The adjusted financial measures exclude discontinued operations, non-recurring separation costs and AMEX Assurance. This presentation is consistent with our presentation of third and fourth quarter 2005 adjusted financial results included in our earnings releases for those periods and is also consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP financial information in our annual report to shareholders and Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. The reconciliations from adjusted to GAAP are also provided in the exhibit.
 
We intend to take additional steps to further increase transparency by providing enhancements to our statistical supplement in conjunction with reporting our first quarter 2006 results preliminarily scheduled for Tuesday, April 25, 2006.
The changes resulting from enhanced internal allocation methodologies and annotated quarterly and full year reallocated segment information, together with quarterly and full year adjusted consolidated financial information, adjusted Protection segment financial information and reconciliations from adjusted to GAAP, are furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
The changes described above, including the revised presentation of previously reported segment data applied retroactively to all periods presented, will be officially reported in our SEC filings commencing with the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2006.
 
We follow accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The financial information furnished as Exhibit 99.1 include information on both a GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted basis. The non-GAAP presentation excludes items that are a direct result of our separation from American Express Company, which consist of discontinued operations, non-recurring separation costs and AMEX Assurance. Our non-GAAP financial measures, which we view as important indicators of financial performance, include the following: consolidated income statements adjusted to exclude AMEX Assurance and separation costs; Protection segment income statements adjusted to exclude AMEX Assurance; total expenses before separation costs; adjusted net investment gains(losses), pretax (adjusted to exclude AMEX Assurance); adjusted earnings (adjusted to exclude AMEX Assurance and separation costs); adjusted contribution margin (adjusted to exclude AMEX Assurance); income before income tax provision, discontinued operations and separation costs; income tax provision before tax benefit attributable to separation costs; income before discontinued operations and separation costs; separation costs, after-tax; adjusted pretax segment income (adjusted to exclude AMEX Assurance); adjusted return on allocated equity (adjusted to exclude AMEX Assurance); and pretax segment loss before separation costs. Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures excluding these specific income statement impacts best reflects the underlying performance of our ongoing operations and facilitates a more meaningful trend analysis. These non-GAAP measures are also used for goal setting, certain compensation related to our annual incentive award program and evaluating our performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)           Exhibits. 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Our reallocated quarterly and full year segment information for 2005 includes the impact of automating our internal business unit revenue and expense reporting process, moving SAFC from the Corporate segment to the AA&I segment and enhancing our internal allocation methodologies. The specific impacts by segment of our enhanced internal allocation methodologies are provided below.
 
1.
    
All interest expense on corporate debt will be retained in the Corporate segment. Shown below is the increase (decrease) in quarterly Interest and debt expense for each segment from the information previously reported in our Quarterly Statistical Supplement, furnished under a Form 8-K filed on January 26, 2006.
 
 
2.
    
We refined our method of allocating investment income to our operating segments. Our prior methodology for allocating investment income to insurance products and annuities was primarily driven by estimates of statutory balance sheet values based on both actual and estimated account balances, and included adjustments when actual account balances differed from estimated balances in prior quarters. The new methodology uses actual current month data to estimate statutory balance sheet values. Shown below is the resultant increase (decrease) in quarterly Net investment income for each segment from the information previously reported in our Quarterly Statistical Supplement, furnished under a Form 8-K filed on January 26, 2006.
 
 
3.
    
On a quarterly basis, we did not fully allocate all technology expenses to our AA&I and Protection segments, retaining unallocated expenses in the Corporate segment. However, in the fourth quarter 2005, technology expenses for the full year were fully allocated to the AA&I and Protection segments. The impact of not fully allocating these expenses in each quarter created volatility between quarters in the segments in the Other expenses line item. Shown below is the increase (decrease) in quarterly Other expenses attributable to fully allocating all technology expenses for each segment from the information previously reported in our Quarterly Statistical Supplement, furnished under a Form 8-K filed on January 26, 2006.
4.
    
We will retain in the Corporate segment certain expenses that do not directly relate to the operations of the AA&I and Protection segments. The expenses retained in the Corporate segment include certain senior management compensation and related expense, and expenses attributable to the Corporate Secretary, Public Affairs, and Investor Relations departments, as well as other corporate-related activities. Shown below is the increase (decrease) in quarterly Other expenses attributable to changes in non-allocated corporate overhead for each segment from the information previously reported in our Quarterly Statistical Supplement, furnished under a Form 8-K filed on January 26, 2006.
 
 
5.
    
Required capital is determined by first assessing required capital as the higher of regulatory requirements, rating agency requirements or economic capital requirements. Generally, our methodology assumes rating agency requirements approximate 350% of risk based capital for insurance products following our separation from American Express Company, and approximate 300% prior to that event. Revisions to our estimation of required capital primarily reflect moving SAFC results to the AA&I segment and eliminating the benefits of corporate diversification, which lowers economic capital requirements, from the operating segments. Excess capital and associated investment income are retained in the Corporate segment. Shown below is the increase (decrease) in quarterly Allocated equity for each segment from the information previously reported in our Quarterly Statistical Supplement, furnished under a Form 8-K filed on January 26, 2006.
 
Annotated quarterly and full year reallocated segment information, together with quarterly and full year adjusted consolidated financial information, adjusted Protection segment financial information and reconciliations from adjusted to GAAP, are furnished on the following pages.
 
 
 
 
 
Sequential Quarterly Discussion
Quarter 3 compared to Quarter 2
Compensation and benefits -  field decreased primarily due to a $9 million ceding commission, booked as a negative expense in this line, from AMEX Assurance relating to our assumptions of E&O reserves.
Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increase primarily reflected the assumption of $9 million in E&O reserves, the $13 million increase in the long-term care related reserves, as well as higher losses related to higher auto and home policies in force.
Quarter 4 compared to Quarter 3
Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses decreased primarily due to the $13 million increase in long-term care reserves in the third quarter, $9 million E&O reserve assumption in the third quarter, and also reflect higher expenses related to an increase in policies in force for auto and home.
Other expenses primarily reflect higher expenses related to compensation, management incentives and ongoing separation costs.
 
     Represents the elimination of intercompany E&O premiums recorded in the Protection Segment.
(1)
 
Sequential Quarterly Discussion
Quarter 2 compared to Quarter 1
Management, financial advice and service fees increased primarily due to an increase in planning fees.
Net investment loss increased by $6 million due primarily to a decrease in the mark-to-market value of derivatives and debt hedges, partially offset by a $12 million increase in realized gains and an increase in interest income.
In all quarters presented other expenses is a volatile line due to the irregular timing of expenses related to corporate projects and other corporate activities.
Quarter 3 compared to Quarter 2
Management, financial advice and service fees decreased primarily due to a decrease in planning fees.
Net investment loss decreased by $8 million, primarily due to the positive impact of mark-to-market on derivatives and debt hedges, and higher interest income, offset by a $14 million decline in realized gains.
Quarter 4 compared to Quarter 3
Net investment income increased $13 million primarily due to an increase in mark-to-market value of derivatives.
 
  See Non-GAAP Financial Information included in this Exhibit.
(1)
  See Non-GAAP Financial Information included in this Exhibit.
(1)
  See Non-GAAP Financial Information included in this Exhibit.
(1)
  See Non-GAAP Financial Information included in this Exhibit.
(1)
 
 
  See Non-GAAP Financial Information included in this Exhibit.
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the Company) follows accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). This report includes information on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. The non-GAAP presentation in this report excludes items that are a direct result of the separation from American Express Company, which consist of discontinued operations, AMEX Assurance and non-recurring separation costs. The Company's non-GAAP financial measures, which it views as important indicators of financial performance, include: 
 
 
Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures excluding these specific income statement impacts best reflects the underlying performance of our ongoing operations and facilitates a more meaningful trend analysis. These non-GAAP measures are also used for goal setting, certain compensation related to our annual incentive award program and evaluating our performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts.
- Total revenues less compensation and benefits - field, interest credited to account values and benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses as a percentage of total revenues. Amounts exclude AMEX Assurance.
Adjusted Contribution Margin
 
- Income before discontinued operations, AMEX Assurance and non-recurring separation costs.
Adjusted Earnings
 
- Represents the net investment gains (losses) adjusted to exclude AMEX Assurance.
Adjusted Net Investment Gains (Losses), Pretax
 
- Calculated using as the numerator adjusted pretax segment income for the last twelve months and as the denominator a five point average of equity excluding both the assets and liabilities of discontinued operations and equity allocated to expected non-recurring separation costs as of the last day of the preceding four quarters and the current quarter.
Adjusted Return on Allocated Equity
 
-  The internal allocation of consolidated shareholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), to the Company's operating segments for purposes of measuring segment return on allocated equity. Allocated equity does not represent insurance company risk-based capital or other regulatory capital requirements applicable to the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
Allocated Equity
 
- This company is a legal entity owned by IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company that offers travel and other card insurance to American Express customers. This business had historically been reported in the Travel Related Services segment of American Express Company ("American Express"). Under the separation agreement with American Express, 100 percent of this business was ceded to an American Express subsidiary in return for an arm's length ceding fee. Ameriprise Financial expects to sell the legal entity of AMEX Assurance to American Express within two years after September 30, 2005 for a fixed price equal to the net book value of AMEX Assurance.
AMEX Assurance Company
 
This segment offers products and services, both the Company's own and other companies', to help the Company's retail clients address identified financial objectives related to asset accumulation and income management. Products and services in this segment are related to financial advice, asset management, brokerage and banking, and include mutual funds, wrap accounts, variable and fixed annuities, brokerage accounts, financial advice services and investment certificates. This operating segment also serves institutional clients by providing investment management services in separately managed accounts, sub-advisory, alternative investments and 401(k) markets. The Company earns revenues in this segment primarily through fees we receive based on managed assets and annuity separate account assets. These fees are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. The Company also earns net investment income on owned assets, principally supporting the fixed annuity business, and distribution fees on sales of mutual funds and other products. This segment includes the results of Securities America Financial Corporation, which through its operating subsidiary, Securities America, Inc., operates its own separately branded distribution network.
Asset Accumulation and Income Segment 
 
- Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and consolidated subsidiaries.
Company
 
- Total revenues less compensation and benefits - field, interest credited to account values and benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses as a percentage of total revenues.
Contribution Margin
 
 This segment consists of income derived from corporate level assets and unallocated corporate expenses. This segment also includes non-recurring costs associated with the Company's separation from American Express. For purposes of presentation in this Exhibit, this segment also includes eliminations.
Corporate and Other and Eliminations Segment
 
- Deferred Acquisition Costs ("DAC") represents the costs of acquiring new protection, annuity and mutual fund business, principally direct sales commissions and other distribution and underwriting costs that have been deferred on the sale of annuity, life, disability income and long-term care insurance and, to a lesser extent, deferred marketing and promotion expenses on auto and home insurance and deferred distribution fees for certain mutual fund products. These costs are deferred to the extent they are recoverable from future profits. For the annuity and protection products, DAC is amortized over the periods approximating the lives of the business, principally as a percentage of premiums or estimated gross profits associated with the products, depending on the product's characteristics. For certain mutual fund products, DAC is generally amortized over fixed periods on a straight-line basis adjusted for redemptions.
Deferred Acquisition Costs and Amortization
 
 Segment income (loss) before income tax provision (benefit) and discontinued operations.
Pretax Segment Income (Loss)
 
 This segment offers a variety of protection products, both the Company's own and other companies', including life, disability income, long-term care and auto and home insurance to address the identified protection and risk management needs of the Company's retail clients. The Company earns revenues in this operating segment primarily through premiums and fees that the Company receives to assume insurance-related risk, fees the Company receives on owned and administered assets and net investment income the Company earns on assets on the Company's consolidated balance sheets related to this segment.
Protection Segment
 
 Calculated using pretax segment income for the trailing four quarters and the average allocated equity as of the last day of the trailing four quarters. Estimates of pretax segment income for the last three quarters of 2004 were used in these calculations
Return on Allocated Equity for Pretax Segment Income
.
 
 Securities America Financial Corporation ("SAFC") is a corporation whose sole function is to hold the stock of its operating subsidiaries, Securities America, Inc. ("SAI") and Securities America Advisors, Inc. ("SAA"). SAI is a registered broker-dealer and an insurance agency. SAA is an SEC registered investment advisor.
Securities America Financial Corporation
 
 For this non-GAAP presentation of separation costs, after-tax is calculated in each quarter using the statutory tax rate of 35%, adjusted for permanent differences, if any.
Separation Costs, After-Tax


