FILE:AMP/AMP-8K-20060119121001.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (seeGeneral Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 7.01               Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On January 13, 2006, Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance through the underwriting insurance companies IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company and AMEX Assurance Company, each a wholly-owned subsidiary of the registrant, issued a press release announcing the 5-year renewal of an auto and homeowners insurance marketing and distribution alliance with a subsidiary of Costco Wholesale Corporation. Information contained in such press release is furnished herein in Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)           Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
 
GREEN BAY, WI.
Jan. 13 --- Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance and Costco Insurance
Agency Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Costco Wholesale Corporation, have renewed their current partnership for an additional five years. With this agreement, Ameriprise Auto & Home will continue to be Costco's exclusive source of auto and homeowners insurance for offers made directly to Costco members in participating states.
 
The opportunity to purchase insurance coverage from Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance is available in 38 states and Washington D.C. This co-branded program is available to more than 17 million Costco member households.
 
"We are pleased to continue our successful relationship with Costco,"said Ken Ciak, President of Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance. "Like Costco, we are committed to providing best-in-class products and services. We offer premium insurance products and solutions at very competitive prices."
 
Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance provides rates for various levels of standard and preferred risks. Costco members who meet applicable underwriting criteria could save as much as twenty percent on their auto insurance. As an added benefit, Costco members that have Executive Membership status can receive free roadside assistance for vehicles covered through this program.  Members can get a quote by calling 888.404.5365, or online by visiting www.costco.com/services/auto and home insurance.
 
Insurance provided by Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance is underwritten by AMEX Assurance Company, or IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company, and both have received an "A" (Excellent) rating by A.M. Best, the leading independent rater of insurers in the country.
 
Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance headquartered in De Pere (Green Bay), Wisconsin, with more than 950 employees, is a direct response affinity based property/casualty company selling and servicing automobile, homeowners and umbrella insurance.  Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance currently insures more than 450,000 policyholders.
 
Costco offers a wide array of top-quality, brand-name merchandise and convenient services for businesses and consumers.  Costco currently operates 741 warehouses, including 346 in the United States and
 
Puerto Rico, 66 in Canada, 28 in Mexico, 17 in the United Kingdom, five in Korea, four in Taiwan, and five in Japan.  Costco also operates Costco Online, an electronic commerce web site, at www.costco.com .
 
About Ameriprise Financial Inc.
 
Ameriprise Auto & Home is a part of Ameriprise Financial. Ameriprise Financial is one of the nation's leading financial planning, asset management and insurance holding companies. Through its nationwide network of more than 10,000 financial advisors, Ameriprise Financial delivers solutions to clients through a comprehensive and personalized financial planning approach built on a long-term relationship with a knowledgeable advisor. The company specializes in meeting the retirement-related financial needs of the mass affluent. For more information, visit www.ameriprise.com .
 


