FILE:AMP/AMP-8K-20071203201334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) 
December 3, 2007
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code 
(612) 671-3131
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 7.01               Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On December 3, 2007, Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the "Company") announced a change in its reportable segments. We will begin reporting our financial results with the new segments beginning with our year-end 2007 results. The revised presentation of previously reported segment data, applied retroactively to all periods presented, will be officially reported in our SEC filings commencing with the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. In connection with this effort, we are providing a narrative description of our enhanced transfer pricing methodology and a summary of the reclassifications made to previously reported balances. We believe this will facilitate comparison with how we expect to present our consolidated financial statements in our 2007 Annual Report. The reclassifications did not result in any changes to consolidated net income or shareholders' equity. The changes resulting from an enhanced transfer pricing methodology and reclassifications are attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference and furnished herewith. In addition, the Company furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.2, Historical Financial and Metric Information.
 
We follow accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). The financial information furnished as Exhibit 99.2 includes information on both a U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP basis.
The non-GAAP measures in Exhibit 99.2 exclude items that are a direct result of our separation from American Express Company, which consist of discontinued operations, AMEX Assurance and non-recurring separation costs. Our non-GAAP financial measures, which our management views as important indicators of financial performance, include: Adjusted earnings or net income excluding AMEX Assurance net income, income from discontinued operations, after-tax and separation costs, after-tax; Adjusted pretax margin using as the numerator pretax income excluding discontinued operations, AMEX Assurance and separation costs and as the denominator adjusted net revenue or net revenues excluding AMEX Assurance; Adjusted earnings margin using as the numerator adjusted earnings and as the denominator adjusted net revenue; Adjusted net revenue growth or net revenue growth excluding AMEX Assurance; Adjusted return on equity or return on equity excluding the impact of our separation from American Express Company using as the numerator adjusted earnings for the last 12 months and as the denominator a five-point average of equity excluding both the assets and liabilities of discontinued operations and equity allocated to expected non-recurring separation costs as of the last day of the preceding four quarters and the current quarter; Adjusted earnings per diluted share; Total expenses before separation costs for the Corporate & Other segment; Consolidated and Protection segment income statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 adjusted to exclude AMEX Assurance and separation costs; Income before income tax provision, discontinued operations and separation costs; Income tax provision before tax benefit attributable to separation costs; Income before discontinued operations and separation costs; and Separation costs, after-tax. Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures excluding these specific income statement impacts best reflect the underlying performance of our ongoing operations and facilitates a more meaningful trend analysis. These non-GAAP measures are also used for goal setting, certain compensation related to our annual incentive award program and evaluating our performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts.
We also present in Exhibit 99.2 debt to capital ratios excluding non-recourse debt of structured entities consolidated in accordance with FIN 46(R), EITF 04-5 and other accounting literature and with a 75% equity credit for our junior subordinate debt. Management believes that the debt to capital ratios excluding this non-recourse debt better represents our capital structure.
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
        
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
                                                                                                                                                  60;              Exhibit 99.1
 
Changes Resulting from an Enhanced Transfer Pricing Methodology and Certain Reclassifications
                                                                (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Major Changes
 
During the fourth quarter of 2007, Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the "Company" or "Ameriprise") completed the implementation of an enhanced transfer pricing methodology and expanded its segment presentation from three to five segments to align with the way the Chief Operating Decision Maker views the business. This facilitates greater transparency of the relationships between the businesses and better comparison to other industry participants in the retail advisor distribution, asset management, insurance and annuity industries. In addition, we changed the format of our consolidated statement of income and made reclassifications to enhance transparency. We also made reclassifications on our consolidated balance sheet to better align the financial statement captions with the key drivers of the business. These reclassifications did not result in any changes to consolidated net income or shareholders' equity.
 
The Company will report results for five segments commencing with our earnings release for the quarter ended December 31, 2007.  The five segments will be Advice & Wealth Management, Asset Management, Annuities, Protection and Corporate & Other. Prior to this change, we reported results for three segments: Asset Accumulation and Income, Protection and Corporate and Other. The change from three segments to five is primarily the division of the former Asset Accumulation and Income segment into the Advice & Wealth Management, Asset Management and Annuities segments.
 
The Company also modified the business metrics reported in its quarterly statistical supplement to tighten linkages between changes in these metrics and changes in the new segment income statements. See Exhibit 99.2 Historical Financial and Metric Information.
 
Consistent with our prior representation, our segments do not completely align with legal entities. For instance, adding the financial results of the Annuities and Protection segments together does not equal the RiverSource Life Insurance Company ("RiverSource Life") consolidated financial results. Arm's length transfer pricing is used for segment reporting and in several material instances does not apply to legal entities.
 
Changes Resulting from an Enhanced Transfer Pricing Methodology
 
Each segment records revenues and expenses as if they were each a stand-alone business using our enhanced transfer pricing methodology. Transfer pricing uses market-based arm's length transfer pricing rates for specific services provided. We will review the transfer pricing rates periodically and will make appropriate adjustments to ensure the arm's length rates remain at current market levels. Costs related to shared services are allocated to segments based on their usage of the services provided.
 
The largest source of intersegment revenues and expenses is retail distribution services, where segments are charged an arm's length market rate for distribution through our Advice & Wealth Management segment. The Advice & Wealth Management segment provides distribution services for proprietary and non-proprietary products and services. The Asset Management segment provides investment management services for our owned assets and client assets, and accordingly charges investment and advisory management fees to the other segments.
 
Cost Allocations to Segments
 
All costs related to shared services are allocated to the segments based on a rate times volume or fixed basis.
The new segments are as follows:
 
Advice & Wealth Management
 
This segment provides financial advice and full service brokerage and banking services, primarily to retail clients, through our financial advisors. Our advisors distribute a diversified selection of both proprietary and non-proprietary products to help clients meet their financial needs. A significant portion of revenues in this segment are fee-based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets from primarily certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (Distribution fees) for distributing non-proprietary products and earns intersegment revenues (Distribution fees) for distributing our proprietary products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
 
Asset Management
 
This segment provides investment advice and investment products to retail and institutional clients. Threadneedle Investments predominantly provides international investment products and services, and RiverSource Investments predominantly provides domestic products and services. Domestic retail products are primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and also through third-party distribution. International retail products are primarily distributed through third parties. Products accessed by consumers on a retail basis include mutual funds, variable product funds underlying insurance and annuity separate accounts, separately managed accounts and collective funds. Asset Management products are also distributed directly to institutions through an institutional sales force. Institutional asset management products include traditional asset classes separate accounts, collateralized loan obligations, hedge funds and property funds. Revenues in this segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. This segment earns intersegment revenue for investment management services. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management, Annuities and Protection segments.
 
Annuities
 
This segment provides RiverSource Life variable and fixed annuity products to our retail clients primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and to the retail clients of unaffiliated distributors through third-party distribution. Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on underlying account balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. Revenues for our fixed annuity products are primarily earned as net investment income on underlying account balances, with profitability significantly impacted by the spread between net investment income earned and interest credited on the fixed account balances. We also earn net investment income on owned assets supporting annuity benefit reserves and capital supporting the business. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable annuity contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
 
Protection
 
This segment offers a variety of protection products to address the identified protection and risk management needs of our retail clients including life, disability income and property-casualty insurance. Life and disability income products are primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment. Our property-casualty products are sold direct, primarily through affinity relationships. The primary sources of revenues for this segment are premiums, fees, and charges that we receive to assume insurance-related risk. We earn net investment income on owned assets supporting insurance reserves and capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of assets supporting variable universal life separate account balances. This segment earns intersegment revenues from fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
Corporate & Other
 
This segment consists of net investment income on corporate level assets, including unallocated equity and other revenues from various investments as well as unallocated corporate expenses. This segment also includes non-recurring costs associated with our separation from American Express, which will end in 2007.
 
The following tables identify the transferpricing impact on 2006 Total net revenues, Total expenses and Pretax income (loss) by segment (in millions).
 
Advice & Wealth Management
 
The majority of intersegment transfer pricing revenues reported in this segment are fees received for distribution services.  Intersegment transfer pricing expenses represent investment management fees paid to the Asset Management segment.
 
Asset Management
 
Intersegment transfer pricing revenues reflect fees earned for providing investment management services for owned assets. Intersegment transfer pricing expenses primarily represent distribution fees paid to the Advice & Wealth Management, Annuities and Protection segments.
 
Annuities
 
Intersegment transfer pricing revenues reflect fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable annuity contracts. Intersegment transfer pricing expenses primarily represent distribution fees paid to the Advice & Wealth Management segment and investment management fees paid to the Asset Management segment.
Protection
 
Intersegment transfer pricing revenues include fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment transfer pricing expenses primarily represent distribution fees paid to the Advice & Wealth Management segment and investment management fees paid to the Asset Management segment.
 
Corporate & Other
 
 
Changes Resulting from Certain Reclassifications
 
We changed the format of our consolidated statement of income and made reclassifications to enhance transparency. We also made reclassifications on our consolidated balance sheet to better align the financial statement captions with the key drivers of the business.
 
Consolidated Statement of Income
 
The following table shows the impact of the new captions and the reclassifications made to our previously reported Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
 
The following is a description of our income statement captions, the type of revenue or expense items included within each caption, as well as reclassifications from the prior presentation. We did not change our revenue and expense recognition policies and the reclassifications did not result in any changes to consolidated net income or shareholders' equity.
 
Management and Financial Advice Fees
 
Management and financial advice fees relate primarily to fees earned from managing retail mutual funds, separate account and wrap account assets, institutional investments including structured investments, as well as fees earned from providing financial advice and administrative services (including transfer agent, administration and custodial fees earned from providing services to retail mutual funds). Management and financial advice fees also include mortality and expense risk fees earned on separate account assets. Prior to the sale of our defined contribution recordkeeping business in the second quarter of 2006, Management and financial advice fees included 401(k) administrative fees.
 
Distribution Fees
 
Distribution fees primarily include point-of-sale fees (such as mutual fund front-end sales loads) and asset-based fees (such as 12b-1 distribution and shareholder service fees) that are generally based on a contractual percentage of assets and recognized when earned. Distribution fees also include amounts paid or received under marketing support arrangements for sales of mutual funds (both proprietary and non-proprietary) and other companies' products, such as those sold through our wrap accounts, as well as surrender charges on fixed and variable universal life insurance and annuities.
 
Reclassifications from Management and Financial Advice Fees to Distribution Fees
 
We reclassified the portion of 12b-1 fees identified as service fees on proprietary funds and marketing support type payments received from non-proprietary fund families for variable annuity and variable universal life products from Management and financial advice fees to Distribution fees to better align with industry standards. For 2006, this reclassification decreased Management and financial advice fees $260 million and increased Distribution fees by a like amount. The reclassified 12b-1 fees are reported in the Asset Management segment and were $159 million in 2006. The reclassified marketing support type payments are reported in the Annuities and Protection segments and were $101 million in 2006.
 
Net Investment Income
 
Net investment income primarily includes interest income on fixed maturity securities classified as Available-for-Sale, commercial mortgage loans, policy loans, consumer loans, other investments and cash and cash equivalents; the mark-to-market adjustment on trading securities, including seed money, and certain derivatives, including derivatives hedging variable annuity living benefits; the pro rata share of net income or loss on equity method investments in hedge funds; and realized gains and losses on the sale of securities and charges for securities determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired. We reclassified variable interest entity and banking interest expense from Net investment income to Banking and deposit interest expense, a new caption on our consolidated statement of income, to align with the presentation used by the banking industry. For 2006, this reclassification increased Net investment income $46 million and increased Banking and deposit interest expense by a like amount. This reclassification primarily impacts the Asset Management and Advice & Wealth Management segments.
 
Premiums
 
Premiums include premiums on property-casualty insurance, net of reinsurance, Traditional life and health (disability income and long-term care) insurance, net of reinsurance, and immediate annuities with a life contingent feature. Historically, premiums, benefits and interest credited to immediate annuities with life contingencies have been recorded net, as a component of Interest credited to fixed accounts. We reclassified premiums related to immediate annuities with life contingencies from Interest credited to fixed accounts to Premiums. For 2006, this reclassification increased Premiums $138 million and increased Interest credited to fixed accounts by a like amount. This product is reported in the Annuities segment.
 
Other Revenues
 
Other revenues include certain charges assessed on fixed and variable universal life insurance and annuities, which consist of cost of insurance charges, net of reinsurance premiums for universal life insurance products, variable annuity guaranteed benefit rider charges and administration charges against contractholder accounts or balances. Other revenues also include revenues related to certain limited partnerships that were consolidated beginning in 2006. We reclassified reinsurance premiums paid for universal life and variable universal life products from Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses to Other revenues. For 2006, this reclassification
decreased Other revenues $39 million and decreased Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses by a like amount. This reclassification impacts the Protection segment.
 
Banking and Deposit Interest Expense
 
This new expense line reflects the standard presentation for our banking products. Banking and deposit interest expense primarily includes interest expense related to banking deposits, investment certificates and the related embedded derivatives and cash collateral received from counterparties in securities lending activities. Additionally, Banking and deposit interest expense includes interest on non-recourse debt of a consolidated structured entity, as well as interest expense related to debt of certain limited partnerships that were consolidated beginning in 2006. In addition to the $46 million of variable interest entity and banking interest expense that we reclassified from Net investment income, we reclassified $211 million of interest credited to certificate deposit products from Interest credited to fixed accounts and $15 million of interest expense primarily related to the debt of limited partnerships managed by our Asset Management segment and stock loan interest expense from Interest and debt expense to Banking and deposit interest expense for 2006. These reclassifications impact the Asset Management and Advice & Wealth Management segments.
 
Distribution Expenses
 
This new line aligns how we report expenses with industry participants. Distribution expenses primarily include compensation paid to our financial advisors, registered representatives, third-party distributors and wholesalers, net of amounts capitalized and amortized as part of deferred acquisition costs ("DAC").The amounts capitalized and amortized are based on actual distribution costs, not arm's length transfer pricing rates. The majority of these costs, such as advisor and wholesaler compensation, vary directly with the level of sales; a portion of these costs, such as certain expenses associated with managing and supporting financial advisors, do not. Distribution expenses also include marketing support and other distribution and administration related payments made to affiliated and unaffiliated distributors of products provided by our affiliates. The majority of these expenses vary with the level of sales, or assets held, by these distributors or are fixed costs. This line includes expenses previously reported as Compensation and benefits  field. For 2006, we reclassified $1.3 billion of Non-field compensation to General and administrative expense, which impacts all segments. This new line also includes wholesaling costs which were historically reported in Other expenses. For 2006, Distribution expenses increased $34 million, net of capitalization of $51 million, with a corresponding decrease to Other expenses, now called General and administrative expense. This change impacts all segments. We reclassified capitalization related to distribution expenses from Other expenses to Distribution expenses, which impacts the Annuities and Protection segments. For 2006, this reclassification decreased Distribution expenses $71 million and increased Other expenses by a like amount.
 
Interest Credited to Fixed Accounts
 
Interest credited to fixed accounts represents amounts earned by contractholders and policyholders on fixed account values associated with fixed and variable universal life and annuity contracts. We reclassified interest credited to certificate deposit products from this line to Banking and deposit interest expense. For 2006, this reclassification decreased Interest credited to fixed accounts $211 million and increased Banking and deposit interest expense by a like amount. These products are reported in the Advice & Wealth Management segment. Historically, premiums, benefits and interest credited to immediate annuities with life contingencies have been recorded net, as a component of Interest credited to fixed accounts. We reclassified premiums related to immediate annuities with life contingencies from Interest credited to fixed accounts to Premiums. For 2006, this reclassification increased Interest credited to fixed accounts $138 million and increased Premiums by a like amount. This product is reported in the Annuities segment. We reclassified benefit expenses related to immediate annuities with life contingencies from Interest credited to fixed accounts to Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses. For 2006, this reclassification decreased Interest credited to fixed accounts $223 million and increased Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses by a like amount. This change also impacts the Annuities segment.
 
Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses
 
Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses consist of amounts paid and changes in liabilities held for anticipated future benefit payments under insurance policies and annuity contracts, including benefits paid under optional variable annuity guaranteed benefit riders, along with costs to process and pay such amounts. Amounts are net of benefit payments recovered or expected to be recovered under reinsurance contracts. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses also include amortization of deferred sales inducement costs. We reclassified reinsurance premiums for variable insurance products from this line to Other revenues, where cost of insurance fees are reported. For 2006, this reclassification decreased Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses $39 million and decreased Other revenues by a like amount. This change impacts the Protection segment. We reclassified benefit expenses related to immediate annuities with life contingencies from Interest credited to fixed accounts to Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses. For 2006, this reclassification increased Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses $223 million and decreased Interest credited to fixed accounts by a like amount. This change impacts the Annuities segment.
 
Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs
 
Direct sales commissions and other costs deferred as DAC, which are associated with the sale of annuity, insurance and certain mutual fund products, are amortized over time. For annuity and universal life contracts, DAC are amortized based on projections of estimated gross profits over amortization periods equal to the approximate life of the business. For other insurance products, DAC are generally amortized as a percentage of premiums over amortization periods equal to the premium-paying period. For certain mutual fund products, DAC are generally amortized over fixed periods on a straight-line basis adjusted for redemptions.
 
Interest and Debt Expense
 
Interest and debt expense primarily includes interest on corporate debt, the impact of interest rate hedging activities and amortization of debt issuance costs. We reclassified interest expense related to the limited partnerships managed by our Asset Management segment and interest expense related to stock loans to Banking and deposit interest expense. For 2006, this reclassification decreased Interest and debt expense $15 million and increased Banking and deposit interest expense by a like amount. These changes impact the Asset Management and Advice & Wealth Management segments.
 
Separation Costs
 
Separation costs include expenses related to the separation from American Express. Separation costs primarily relate to advisor and employee retention program costs, costs associated with establishing the Ameriprise brand and costs to separate and reestablish our technology platforms. These costs are reported in the Corporate & Other segment and will end in the fourth quarter of 2007.
 
General and Administrative Expense
 
General and administrative expense primarily includes compensation, share-based awards and other benefits for employees (other than employees directly related to distribution including financial advisors and registered representatives), professional and consultant fees, information technology and communications, facilities and equipment, advertising and promotion, and legal and regulatory. General and administrative expense is net of amounts capitalized as DAC. General and administrative expense also includes expenses related to certain limited partnerships that were consolidated beginning in 2006, which primarily consist of the portion of net income of these partnerships we do not own. The majority of the expenses in this line were previously reported as Compensation and benefits  non-field and Other expenses. The new presentation better aligns with peer presentations of these expenses. These changes impact all segments. Non-field compensation and benefits were $1.3 billion in 2006. We reclassified wholesaling costs, net of capitalization, to Distribution expenses. This change impacts all segments and was a decrease to General and administrative expense of $34 million, net of capitalization of $51 million and an increase to Distribution expenses by a like amount in 2006. We reclassified capitalization related to distribution expenses from Other expenses to Distribution expenses. This change impacts the Annuities and Protection segments and resulted in an increase to General and administrative expense of $71 million and a decrease to Distribution expenses by a like amount in 2006.
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
The following table shows the impact of the reclassifications made to our previously reported Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006.
 
 
Reclassifications:
 
Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Limited historically classified its short-term investments in money market funds as Investments. Consistent with the U.S. classification policy we use, these are now reported in Cash and cash equivalents and Restricted and segregated cash. For 2006, this reclassification increased Cash and cash equivalents $43 million and increased Restricted and segregated cash $18 million with a decrease of $61 million to Investments. Securities lending and borrowing activity related to brokerage customer deposits were previously recorded on a net basis within Receivables. We reclassified securities loaned of $203 million from Receivables to Other liabilities resulting in an increase to each line. We reclassified a $110 million debit balance in Other liabilities related to federal income taxes to Other assets resulting in an increase to each line and we reclassified $363 million of various liabilities from Accounts payable and accrued expenses to Other liabilities based on the nature of the liability and the timing of its settlement.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
(1)
    
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(2)
    
In GAAP financial statements, separation costs are part of continuing operations. For this non-GAAP presentation, after-tax separation costs are calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35%.
(1)
    
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(2)
    
During the second quarter of 2006, the defined contribution record keeping business was sold to Wachovia resulting in a $16.7 billion reduction in administered assets.
#
       
Variance of 100% or greater.
 
(1)
     
See
non-GAAP Financial Information.
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
Equal Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Counts the number of Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total number of Class A funds.  Asset size is not a factor.
 
Asset Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Sums the assets of the Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total Class A assets.  Funds with more assets will receive a greater share of the total percentage above or below median.
 
Aggregated data shows only actively-managed mutual funds by affiliated investment managers.
 
Aggregated data does not include mutual funds subadvised by advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc., RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund, RiverSource Cash Management Fund and RiverSource Tax Free Money Market Fund.
 
Aggregated equity rankings include RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series and other balanced and asset allocation funds that invest in both equities and fixed income.
 
RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series funds are funds of mutual funds that may invest in third-party subadvised funds.
 
Aggregated data only includes mutual funds in existence as of current quarter end.  Refer to Exhibit A for RiverSource individual mutual fund performance rankings and other important disclosures.
 
Exhibit A includes RiverSource performance rankings for funds subadvised by non-affiliated advisors for general reference although not included in the summary above.
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
(1)
 
Amounts represent UK Pound to US dollar conversion.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
(1)
 
Totals include GMWB and GMAB only.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
(1)
  Includes payout annuities.
(2)
  Attributable to interest sensitive products only, which have been 97% of the total ending  fixed annuities accumulation values in the periods reported.  The asset earnings rate is a calculated theoretical yield obtained from the assignment of investment income using the investment year method of allocation.
 
#  Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
 
 
#          Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
(1)
         Includes lump sum deposits.
 
 
#          Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
 
#  Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
(1)
The majority of the amounts above represent the impact of inter-segment transfer pricing for both revenues and expenses.
 
#  Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
#  Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
(1)
 See non-GAAP Financial Information.
 
(2)
 The Company's junior subordinated notes receive an equity credit of at least 75% by the majority of rating agencies.
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the Company) follows accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP).  This report includes information on both a U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP basis.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in this report exclude items that are a direct result of our separation from American Express Company, which consist of discontinued operations, AMEX Assurance and non-recurring separation costs.  These non-GAAP financial measures, which our management views as important indicators of financial performance, include:
 
 -   Adjusted earnings (adjusted to exclude the after-tax impacts of AMEX Assurance, discontinued operations and separation costs);
 -   Separation costs, after-tax;
 -   Adjusted pretax margin;
 -   Adjusted earnings margin;
 -   Adjusted net revenue growth;
 -   Adjusted return on equity;
 -   Adjusted earnings per diluted share;
 -   Total expenses before separation costs for the Corporate & Other segment;
 -   2005 Consolidated income statement adjusted to exclude AMEX Assurance and separation costs;
 -   2005 Protection segment income statement adjusted to exclude AMEX Assurance;
 -   Income before income tax provision, discontinued operations and separation costs;
 -   Income tax provision before tax benefit attributable to separation costs; and
 -   Income before discontinued operations and separation costs.
 
Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures excluding these specific income statement impacts best reflect the underlying performance of the Company's ongoing operations and facilitates a more meaningful trend analysis.  These non-GAAP measures are also used for goal setting, certain compensation related to the Company's annual incentive award program and evaluating the Company's performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts.
 
The Company presents debt to capital ratios excluding non-recourse debt of structured entities consolidated in accordance with FIN 46(R), EITF 04-5 and other accounting literature and with a 75% equity credit for the Company's junior subordinate debt.  Management believes that the debt to capital ratios excluding this non-recourse debt better represents the Company's capital structure.
 
Reclassification
 
Certain prior period information has been restated to conform to current period presentation.
 
Advice & Wealth Management
- This segment provides financial advice and full service brokerage and banking services, primarily to retail clients, through our financial advisors.  Our advisors distribute a diversified selection of both proprietary and non-proprietary products to help clients meet their financial needs.  A significant portion of revenues in this segment are fee-based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets from primarily certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (Distribution fees) for distributing non-proprietary products and earns intersegment revenues (Distribution fees) for distributing our proprietary products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
 
Asset Management -
This segment provides investment advice and investment products to retail and institutional clients. Threadneedle Investments predominantly provides international investment products and services, and RiverSource Investments predominantly provides domestic products and services. Domestic retail products are primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and also through third-party distribution. International retail products are primarily distributed through third parties. Products accessed by consumers on a retail basis include mutual funds, variable product funds underlying insurance and annuity separate accounts, separately managed accounts and collective funds. Asset Management products are also distributed directly to institutions through an institutional sales force.  Institutional asset management products include traditional asset classes separate accounts, collateralized loan obligations, hedge funds and property funds.  Revenues in this segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. This segment earns intersegment revenue for investment management services. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management, Annuities and Protection segments.
 
Annuities -
This segment provides RiverSource Life variable and fixed annuity products to our retail clients primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and to the retail clients of unaffiliated distributors through third-party distribution.  Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on underlying account balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows.  Revenues for our fixed annuity products are primarily earned as net investment income on underlying account balances, with profitability significantly impacted by the spread between net investment income earned and interest credited on the fixed account balances. We also earn net investment income on owned assets supporting annuity benefit reserves and capital supporting the business. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable annuity contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
 
Protection
- This segment offers a variety of protection products to address the identified protection and risk management needs of our retail clients including life, disability income and property-casualty insurance. Life and disability income products are primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment. Our property-casualty products are sold direct, primarily through affinity relationships. The primary sources of revenues for this segment are premiums, fees, and charges that we receive to assume insurance-related risk. We earn net investment income on owned assets supporting insurance reserves and capital supporting the business.  We also receive fees based on the level of assets supporting variable universal life separate account balances. This segment earns intersegment revenues from fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
 
Corporate & Other -
This segment consists of net investment income on corporate level assets, including unallocated equity and other revenues from various investments as well as unallocated corporate expenses.  This segment also includes non-recurring costs associated with our separation from American Express, which will end in 2007.
 
Adjusted Earnings
- Adjustments to net income including the after-tax effect of Income before discontinued operations and separation costs and AMEX Assurance net income.
 
Adjusted Earnings Margin
- A ratio using as the numerator adjusted earnings and as the denominator adjusted net revenue.
 
Adjusted Net Revenue
- Total net revenue less AMEX Assurance net revenue.
 
Adjusted Pretax Income
- Adjustments made to income before tax provision and discontinued operations for separation costs and AMEX Assurance pretax income.
 
Adjusted Pretax Margin
- A ratio using as the numerator pretax income excluding discontinued operations, AMEX Assurance and separation cost and as the denominator adjusted net revenue.
 
Adjusted Return on Equity
- Adjusted return on equity ("ROE") is calculated using adjusted earnings in the numerator for the last twelve months and equity excluding both the assets and liabilities of discontinued operations and equity allocated to expected non-recurring separation costs as of the last day of the preceding four quarters and the current quarter in the denominator.
 
Administered Assets
- Administered assets include assets for which we provide administrative services such as client assets invested in other companies' products that we offer outside of our wrap accounts. These assets include those held in clients' brokerage accounts. We do not exercise management discretion over these assets and do not earn a management fee. These assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
Alternative Assets
- Assets reported by the Company that include Hedge Funds and Collateralized Debt Obligations ("CDO").
 
Allocated Equity
- The internal allocation of consolidated shareholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), to our operating segments for purposes of measuring segment return on allocated equity.  Allocated equity does not represent insurance company risk-based capital or other regulatory capital requirements applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries. For the Corporate & Other segment, allocated equity also includes any excess capital.
 
AMEX Assurance Company
- A legal entity previously owned by IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company ("IDS Property Casualty") that offers travel and other card insurance to American Express Company ("American Express") customers. This business prior to our separation from American Express had historically been reported in the Travel Related Services segment of American Express . Under the separation agreement with American Express, 100% of this business was ceded to an American Express subsidiary in return for an arm's length ceding fee.
 
Auto & Home Insurance -
Personal auto and home protection products marketed directly to customers through marketing affiliates such as Costco Wholesale  Corporation, Delta Loyalty Management Services, Inc. and Ford Motor Credit Company. We sell these products through our auto and home subsidiary, IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company (doing business as Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance).
 
Book Value per Share
- Total shareholders' equity divided by the number of basic common shares outstanding at period-end.
 
Cash Sales
- Cash Sales are the dollar value volume indicator that captures gross new cash inflows which generate product revenue streams to our company. This includes primarily "client initiated" activity that results in an incremental increase in assets (owned, managed or administered) or premiums in-force (but doesn't need to result in time of sale revenue), or activity that doesn't increase assets or premiums inforce, but generates "fee revenue".
 
Debt to Total Capital Ratio
- A ratio comprised of total debt divided by total capital. We also present debt to capital ratios excluding non-recourse debt of structured entities consolidated in accordance with FIN 46(R), EITF 04-5 and other accounting literature and with a 75% equity credit for our junior subordinate debt.
 
Deferred Acquisition Costs and Amortization
- Deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") represents the costs of acquiring new protection, annuity and certain mutual fund business, principally direct sales commissions and other distribution and underwriting costs that have been deferred on the sale of annuity, life, disability income and long term care insurance and, to a lesser extent, deferred marketing and promotion expenses on auto and home insurance and deferred distribution costs on certain mutual fund products. These costs are deferred to the extent they are recoverable from future profits.
 
Financial Planning Penetration
- The period-end number of current clients who have received a financial plan, or have entered into an agreement to receive and have paid for a financial plan, divided by the number of active retail client groups, serviced by branded financial advisors.
 
Life Insurance in-Force
- The total amount of all life insurance death benefits currently insured by our company.
 
Managed External Client Assets
- Managed external client assets includes client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the RiverSource family of mutual funds, assets of institutional clients and client assets held in wrap accounts (retail accounts for which we receive an advice fee based on assets held in the account).  Managed external client assets also include assets managed by sub-advisors selected by us. Managed external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
Managed Owned Assets
- Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we provide investment management services and recognize management fees, such as the assets of the general account and RiverSource Variable Products funds held in the seperate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries.
 
Net Amount at Risk -
Life insurance in-force less policyholder reserves net of re-insurance.
 
Net Flows -
Sales less redemptions and miscellaneous flows which may include reinvested dividends.
 
Net Income Margin -
A ratio representing net income as a percentage of total net revenues.
 
Owned Assets
- Owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we do not provide investment management services and do not recognize management fees such as investments in non-proprietary funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries, as well as restricted and segregated cash and receivables.
 
Pretax Income (Loss) -
Income (loss) before income tax provision (benefit).
 
Pretax Income Margin -
A ratio representing pretax income as a percentage of total net revenues.
 
Pretax Return on Allocated Equity -
Calculated using pretax income for the last twelve months and the average allocated equity as of the last day of the trailing four quarters and current quarter end.
Securities America
- Securities America Financial Corporation ("SAFC") is a corporation whose sole function is to hold the stock of its operating subsidiaries, Securities America, Inc. ("SAI") and Securities America Advisors, Inc. ("SAA"). SAI is a registered broker-dealer and an insurance agency. SAA is an SEC registered investment advisor.
 
Separate Accounts
- Represent assets and liabilities that are maintained and established primarily for the purpose of funding variable annuity and insurance products. The assets of the separate account are only available to fund the liabilities of the variable annuity contract holders and others with contracts requiring premiums or other deposits to the separate account. Clients elect to invest premiums in stock, bond and/or money market funds depending on their risk tolerance. All investment performance, net of fees, is passed through to the client.
 
Separation Costs
- Separation costs include expenses related to our separation from American Express Company. These costs are primarily associated with establishing the Ameriprise Financial brand, separating and reestablishing our technology platforms and advisor and employee retention programs.  These costs will end in 2007.
 
SOP 05-1 ("Statement of Position"), "Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection With Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts"
- SOP 05-1 provides guidance on accounting for DAC associated with any insurance or annuity contract that is significantly modified or internally replaced with another contract.
 
Third Party Distribution
- Distribution of RiverSource products, which include a variety of equity and fixed income mutual funds, annuities and insurance products, to retail clients through unaffiliated financial institutions and broker-dealers.  The Third Party channel is separate from the Branded Advisor, Threadneedle, SAFC, and Institutional sales channels.
 
Threadneedle -
Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Limited is our foreign operations in the United Kingdom.
 
Total Capital -
Total shareholders' equity plus total debt. Total capital is also presented excluding non-recourse debt.
 
Wrap Accounts
- Wrap accounts enable our clients to purchase other securities such as mutual funds in connection with investment advisory fee-based "wrap account" programs or services. We offer clients the opportunity to select products that include proprietary and non-proprietary funds. We currently offer both discretionary and non-discretionary investment advisory wrap accounts. In a discretionary wrap account, an unaffiliated investment advisor or our investment management subsidiary, RiverSource Investments, LLC chooses the underlying investments in the portfolio on behalf of the client. In a non-discretionary wrap account, the client chooses the underlying investments in the portfolio based, to the extent the client elects, in part or whole on the recommendations of their financial advisor. Investors in our wrap accounts generally pay an asset-based fee based on the assets held in their wrap accounts. These investors also pay any related fees or costs included in the underlying securities held in that account, such as underlying mutual fund operating expenses and Rule 12b-1 fees.
 
 
 
Fixed Income Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of September 30, 2007
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their
original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
 
(1)
Since inception returns and rankings for periods less than one year in length are cumulative.
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their
original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
 
(1)
Since inception returns and rankings for periods less than one year in length are cumulative.
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their
original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
(1)
Since inception returns and rankings for periods less than one year in length are cumulative.
 
Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of September 30, 2007
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
Important Disclosures
 
Rankings based on annualized total returns, excluding sales charges.  Net asset value (NAV) returns for all periods would have been lower if the applicable sales charges were included.
 
Please note the following about the "Ranking since" Lipper Rankings: In order to obtain a more accurate "since inception" Lipper Ranking for funds with an inception prior to 2000, the Thursday or month-end date following the actual inception date was used, rather than the actual inception date.  When researching since inception rankings, please use the "Ranking Since" date.
 
Please note the following about the "Annualized Returns @ POP":  The POP return is calculated assuming a one-time purchase of the Fund at the maximum sales charge listed in the exhibit.  RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund has no sales loads, however, a redemption fee of 0.50% is charged on shares redeemed within 180 days of purchase.
 
Net assets per fund include all share classes.  Assets for RiverSource Portfolio Builder Funds, RiverSource Income Builder Funds and RiverSource Retirement Plus Funds are invested in other RiverSource Funds and therefore would be double counted if assets are summed to reach a total.
 
Fee waivers were in place for each subadvised fund shown and the return would have been lower for each Fund had fee waivers not been in place.
 
Important Disclosures - continued
 
An investment in money market funds is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. Although these funds seek to preserve the value
of your investment at $1.00 per share, it is possible to lose money by investing in these funds.
 
You should consider the investment objectives, risks, and charges and expenses of mutual funds carefully before investing. For a free prospectus, which contains this and other important
information about the funds, call (800) 297-3863, TTY: (800) 846-4852.  Read the prospectus carefully before investing.
 
The RiverSource Global Technology Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives.
 
Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies often involve greater risk and potential volatility than investments in larger, more established companies.
 
The RiverSource Precious Metals Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives.
 
The RiverSource Real Estate Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives. An investment in a real estate fund is subject to the same
risks as a direct investment in real estate. Such risks include market risk, economic risk and mortgage rate risk.
 
International investing involves increased risk and volatility, not typically associated with domestic investing, due to changes in currency exchange rates, foreign government regulations, differences in auditing
and accounting standards, potential political and economic instability, limited liquidity and volatile prices. The risks of international investing are particularly significant in emerging markets.
 
There are risks associated with an investment in a bond fund, including the impact of interest rates, credit and inflation. These and other risk considerations are discussed in the fund's prospectus. In general,
bond prices rise when interest rates fall and vice versa. This effect is usually more pronounced for longer-term securities. Non-investment grade securities, commonly called "high-yield" or "junk" bonds,
generally have more volatile prices and carry more risk to principal and income than investment grade securities.
 
High yield funds invest in lower-rated bonds, which generally have more volatile prices and carry more risk to principal and income than investment grade securities.
 
Principal risks associated with the RiverSource Inflation Protected Securities Fund include style risk, interest rate risk, market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and sector/concentration risk. Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities (TIPS) are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. The U.S. government guarantee applies only to the underlying TIPS securities, and not the Fund itself.
 
Income from tax-exempt funds may be subject to state and local taxes, and a portion of income may be subject to the federal and/or state alternative minimum tax for certain investors. Federal income tax rules will apply to any capital gains distribution.
 
Shares of the RiverSource Short Duration U.S. Government Fund and the RiverSource U.S. Government Mortgage Fund are not insured or guaranteed by the U.S. government.
 
The Floating Rate Fund invests primarily in floating rate loans, the market value of which may fluctuate, sometimes rapidly and unpredictably.  The principal risks of investing in the fund include liquidity risk,
interest rate risk, credit risk, counterparty risk, highly leveraged transactions risk, derivatives risk, confidential information access risk, and impairment of collateral risk. Generally, when interest rates rise, the
prices of fixed income securities fall, however, securities or loans with floating interest rates can be less sensitive to interest rate changes, but they may decline in value if their interest rates do not rise as
much as interest rates in general.  Limited liquidity may affect the ability of the fund to purchase or sell floating rate loans and may have a negative impact on fund performance.  The floating rate loans and
securities in which the fund invests generally are lower-rated (non-investment grade) and are more likely to experience a default, which results in more volatile prices and more risk to principal and income than
investment grade loans or securities. See the Fund's prospectus for information on these and other risks associated with the Fund.
 
Portfolio Builder, Income Builder and Retirement Plus Series, The RiverSource Portfolio Builder Funds, RiverSource Income Builder Funds and RiverSource Retirement Plus Funds are "funds of funds"
comprised of holdings in several different RiverSource funds, which may include small cap, mid cap, large cap, money market, international, bond and/or other sector funds. Specific risk considerations are
discussed in each fund's prospectus. Each of the underlying funds in which the portfolio invests has its own investment risks, and those risks can affect the value of each portfolio's shares and investments.
See each fund's prospectus for specific risks that may be associated with the underlying funds.
 
"Standard & Poor's," "S&P," "S&P 500," and "Standard & Poor's 500" are trademarks of the McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. These trademarks and service marks have been licensed for use by RiverSource
Investments. The Funds are not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Standard & Poor's or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates (the "Licensors") and the Licensors make no representation regarding the
advisability of investing in the Funds.
 
Important Disclosures - continued
 
Investment products are not federally or FDIC insured, are not deposits or obligations of, or guaranteed by any financial institution; and involve investment risks including possible loss of principal and fluctuation in value.
 
RiverSource mutual funds are distributed by RiverSource Distributors, Inc. Member FINRA, and managed by RiverSource Investments, LLC.   These companies are part of Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
SM
 
Brokerage, investment and financial advisory services are made available through Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA and SIPC. Ameriprise Bank, FSB, member FDIC, provides certain deposit
and lending products and services for Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Ameriprise Bank, FSB deposit products are FDIC-insured up to $100,000 per customer.
 
RiverSource Distributors, Inc. (Distributor), Member FINRA. Insurance and annuity products are issued by RiverSource Life Insurance Company, and in New York only by RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New
York, Albany, NY. Only RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York is authorized to sell insurance products in the state of NY.
 
The Threadneedle group of companies constitutes the Ameriprise Financial international investment platform. The group consists of wholly owned subsidiaries of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and provides services
independent from Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc., including Ameriprise Financial Services' broker-dealer business.
 
RiverSource Investments, LLC is an SEC-registered investment adviser that offers investment products and services under the names RiverSource Institutional Advisors, RiverSource Alternative Investments,
RiverSource Capital Management and RiverSource Insurance Assets.  RiverSource Investments, LLC also serves as the Investment Manager for the RiverSource mutual funds.
 
Ameriprise Certificates are issued by Ameriprise Certificate Company and distributed by Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA.
 
Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance issues auto, home and umbrella insurance underwritten by AMEX Assurance Company (AMEX Assurance) or IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company (IDS Property
Casualty), DePere, WI.
 
Mortgages and home equity loans are provided by Ameriprise Bank, FSB, an FDIC-insured federal savings bank. Ameriprise Bank, FSB, an Equal Housing Lender, is an Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. company.
 
These companies, including Securities America, Inc., Member FINRA, are all affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
    
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
 
(2)
    
In GAAP financial statements, separation costs are part of continuing operations. For this non-GAAP presentation, after-tax separation costs are calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35%.
(1)
        
Return on equity is calculated using the trailing twelve months income in the numerator and equity, calculated using a five point average of quarter-end equity, in the denominator.
(2)
        
Adjusted return on equity is calculated using adjusted earnings (income excluding AMEX Assurance and non-recurring separation costs) in the numerator, and equity excluding the equity allocated to expected non-recurring separation costs as of the last day of the preceding four quarters and the current quarter in the denominator.
 


