FILE:AMP/AMP-8K-20080925171537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 7.01       Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On September 24, 2008, Ameriprise Financial, Inc. ("Ameriprise") issued a press release to announce that it would commit up to $33 million to support clients who have invested in The Primary Fund, a money market mutual fund managed by Reserve Management Co.  The press release incorrectly described that Ameriprise expects this commitment to have an impact of approximately 1 cent per share on its third quarter earnings.  Ameriprise expects that the commitment of up to $33 million will have an impact of approximately 10 cents per share on its third quarter earnings.  A copy of the press release, revised to reflect the correct earnings per share impact, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is furnished herewith.
 
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
        
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
 
MINNEAPOLIS  September 24, 2008 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (NYSE: AMP) today announced that it will commit up to $33 million to protect clients who have invested in The Primary Fund, a money market mutual fund managed by Reserve Management Co.
 
The Reserve reported a net asset value (NAV) for The Primary Fund of $0.97 per share on September 16, 2008. Ameriprise Financial will provide up to $33 million of its own capital to mitigate client losses up to 3 cents per share should clients receive less than $1.00 per share when the fund is liquidated. Ameriprise Financial is taking this extraordinary action in recognition of the unprecedented nature of this event and the prospect that this situation will not be covered by the proposed U.S. Treasury money market guarantee program.
 
The Primary Fund became the first major money market mutual fund ever to "break the buck," or record a NAV below $1.00 per share, on Tuesday, September 16, 2008. Since then, assets held by individual investors across the nationincluding many clients of Ameriprise Financialhave been inaccessible.
 
Ameriprise Financial has taken a number of steps to provide comfort for its clients. We are continuing an active dialogue with regulators and legislators, as well as actions in federal court, to secure an equitable and expeditious liquidation of the fund. In the meantime, Ameriprise Financial is also leveraging its strong financial position to provide clients with the liquidity they need to fund their routine expenses.
 
"The unprecedented situation with The Reserve has caused significant anxiety and hardship for individual investors," said Chairman and CEO Jim Cracchiolo. "Ameriprise Financial has taken a number of extraordinary actions on our clients' behalf. With this additional action, we are addressing losses incurred through an investment option that has for decades provided an unquestioned safe haven for consumers' cash.
 
"The next step in this process requires the urgent attention of regulators and legislators: They need to expedite the liquidation of the Reserve funds in a fair and equitable manner for all shareholders so that millions of American investors can get their money back."
 
Ameriprise Financial expects this commitment to have an impact of approximately 10 cents per share on its third quarter earnings.
About Ameriprise Financial
 
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a diversified financial services company serving the comprehensive financial planning needs of the mass affluent and affluent.
 
For more information, visit ameriprise.com.
 
Ameriprise Financial
Media Relations:
Ben Pratt
612.678.5881
benjamin.j.pratt@ampf.com


