FILE:AMP/AMP-8K-20080723160411.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)  
July 23, 2008
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code  
(612) 671-3131
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Conditions.
 
On July 23, 2008, Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2008.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference and furnished herewith. In addition, the Company furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.2, its Statistical Supplement for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2008.
 
We follow accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and the financial information furnished as Exhibit 99.2 include information on both a GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted basis.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in these exhibits exclude items that are a direct result of our separation from American Express Company which consist of non-recurring separation costs. Our non-GAAP financial measures, which our management views as important indicators of financial performance, include the following: adjusted earnings, after-tax (adjusted to exclude separation costs, after-tax); separation costs, after-tax; net realized securities gains (losses), after-tax; return on equity excluding separation costs and net realized securities gains (losses); adjusted return on equity; adjusted earnings per diluted share; adjusted pretax margin; adjusted earnings margin; total expenses before separation costs; pretax return on allocated equity for pretax segment income; pretax operating earnings; and pretax operating earnings margin. Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures excluding these specific income statement impacts best reflects the underlying performance of our 2007 operations and facilitates a more meaningful trend analysis. These non-GAAP measures were used for goal setting, certain compensation related to our annual incentive award program and evaluating our performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts.
 
We also present in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 debt to capital ratios that exclude the effect of a nonrecourse collateralized debt obligation consolidated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," as revised, and non-recourse debt of certain property fund limited partnerships managed by our subsidiary, Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Limited, consolidated in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 04-5, "Determining whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights." Management believes that the debt to capital ratios, excluding this non-recourse debt, better represent our capital structure.  In addition, we provide debt to capital ratio information that reflects an equity credit on our junior subordinated notes issued on May 26, 2006. These junior subordinated notes receive at least a 75% equity credit by the majority of the rating agencies.
 
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
        
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
 
MINNEAPOLIS  July 23, 2008 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (NYSE: AMP) today reported net income of $210 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, a 7 percent increase from $196 million in the prior-year quarter. The second quarter of 2008 included $18 million in after-tax net realized securities losses. The second quarter of 2007 included $41 million in after-tax non-recurring separation costs.
 
Net income per diluted share for the quarter was $0.93, a 15 percent increase compared with the prior-year period. Earnings per diluted share excluding net realized securities gains (losses) and non-recurring separation costs in the prior-year period increased 3 percent to $1.01, which included tax benefits and the negative impact of equity markets on DAC amortization.
 
Net revenues declined 8 percent to $2.0 billion in the second quarter of 2008.  The decline was primarily driven by market depreciation, prior-year period client reinvestment of proceeds from real estate investment trust liquidations, and reduced net investment income due to declining fixed annuity balances and realized securities losses in the quarter.
 
Return on equity for the 12 months ended June 30, 2008 was 11.2 percent, compared to 9.2 percent for the 12 months ended June 30, 2007. Excluding separation costs and net realized securities gains (losses), return on equity was 12.1 percent for both periods. During the second quarter of 2008, we repurchased 5.2 million shares of our common stock for $250 million.
 
"While the market and economic environment continues to be challenging, the Company remains in a strong operating position," said Jim Cracchiolo, chairman and chief executive officer. "Client activity began to stabilize in the second quarter, with cash sales and wrap net flows increasing sequentially and financial planning fee revenue up both year-over-year and from the prior quarter.
 
"The expense management initiatives we implemented in the first quarter continue to reduce general and administrative expenses. We remain focused on effective expense management to control margins, while maintaining our investments for longer-term growth.
 
"Our balance sheet continues to perform well, and we remain in a strong capital and liquidity position. The agreement to acquire J. & W. Seligman announced earlier this month and our decision to increase the dividend are indications of both the financial strength and our commitment to generate shareholder value."
 
 
Second Quarter 2008 Summary
 
We believe the exclusion of net realized securities gains (losses), after-tax, from net income best reflects the trends in our underlying business in the current quarter.  We also believe that the presentation of adjusted measures best reflects the underlying performance of our 2007 operations as it excludes non-recurring separation costs.  This presentation is consistent with the non-GAAP financial information presented in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for year-end 2007, filed on February 29, 2008 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
#
   Variance of 100% or greater.
(1)
 For this non-GAAP presentation, after-tax is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35%.
 
Financial performance continued to reflect the negative impact of the challenging equity and interest rate environment, though to a lesser degree than the first quarter of 2008. This impact was offset by continued expense controls and current quarter tax benefits.
 
Significant items included in consolidated net income for the second quarter of 2008 were:
 
$18 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, in after-tax net realized securities losses, primarily driven by other-than-temporary impairments to three AAA-rated Alt-A mortgage-backed securities. This compares to $1 million in after-tax net gains in the prior-year period.
                
 
A $7 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, after-tax impact from additional amortization of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and deferred sales inducement costs (DSIC) driven by unfavorable market performance in the quarter. This compares to an $8 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, after-tax benefit in the prior-year period, for a net $0.06 year-over-year change.
                
 
$27 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, in lower taxes reflecting adjustments related to FIN 48 and benefits of our tax planning initiatives. This compared to a $16 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, benefit from finalization of prior-period audits in the prior-year period, for a net $0.05 year-over-year benefit.
                
Second Quarter 2008 Business Highlights
 
Client activity began to stabilize in the quarter and client retention remained strong increasing to 95 percent.
                 
 
Branded financial plan net cash sales increased 8 percent year-over-year to $54 million. We also launched a new financial planning tool suite that makes it easier for advisors to serve clients in ongoing financial planning relationships with enhanced record-keeping capabilities.
                 
 
Franchisee advisor retention remained at all-time highs, and total franchisee advisors grew 3 percent year-over-year to 7,846. Employee advisor attrition slowed in the quarter, as we continued our reengineering efforts.
                 
 
Owned, managed and administered assets decreased 8 percent year-over-year to $445 billion as of June 30, 2008, reflecting the 15 percent decline in the S&P 500 Index and Asset Management net outflows in the quarter. These impacts were partially offset by continued net inflows into wrap accounts and variable annuities.
                 
 
Wrap account total ending assets increased 3 percent year-over-year to $91 billion, including $2.8 billion of net inflows during the quarter, partially offset by market depreciation.
                 
 
Variable annuity net inflows of $0.8 billion in the quarter were partially offset by continued fixed annuity net outflows. Fixed annuity net outflows slowed to $0.4 billion in the quarter due to market conditions and sales initiatives.
                 
 
Strong retail sales at Threadneedle partially offset $2.5 billion of net outflows in the quarter, primarily related to expected outflows of lower-margin institutional assets and outflows of alternative investments due to portfolio management changes.
                 
 
RiverSource Funds ending assets declined 10 percent year-over-year to $78 billion, primarily due to market depreciation.  RiverSource Funds long-term fund net outflows were approximately $0.6 billion in the quarter.  A decline in RiverSource mutual fund sales in the Ameriprise channel as a result of less client activity was partially offset by sales growth in non-affiliated broker-dealer and bank platforms.  Redemption rates for the Funds remained stable.  RiverSource Institutional generated strong sales in the quarter, which were more than offset by expected net outflows from a former affiliate.
                 
 
RiverSource Equity Value Fund and RiverSource Mid Cap Value Fund received 2008 Lipper Fund Awards as the leading funds in their respective Lipper categories for the five-year period ending December 31, 2007.
                 
 
We took steps to reengineer our institutional trust and custody business, which we expect to complete in the fourth quarter of 2008.
                 
 
Life insurance in-force increased 5 percent year-over-year to $191 billion.
                 
 
We maintained substantial liquidity at both the holding company and subsidiary levels and continue to hold more than $1 billion of excess capital.
                 
 
 
#
  Variance of 100% or greater.
 
Note:  We have reclassified the mark-to-market adjustment on certain derivatives from Net investment income to various expense lines.  The mark-to-market adjustment on derivatives hedging variable annuity living benefits, equity indexed annuities and stock market certificates were reclassified to Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, Interest credited to fixed accounts and Banking and deposit interest expense, respectively.  Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
Second Quarter 2008 Consolidated Results
 
Net income grew 7 percent year-over-year to $210 million. Excluding net realized gains and losses in both periods and $41 million in non-recurring after-tax separation costs in the second quarter of 2007, earnings declined 3 percent.
 
Total net revenues declined 8 percent, or $174 million, to $2.0 billion, driven by difficult equity markets, lower year-over-year sales of real estate investment trusts and less net investment income due to lower fixed annuity balances and impairments in the quarter. Revenue in the prior-year period include a client reinvestment of proceeds from real estate investment trust liquidations.
 
Management and financial advice fees declined 1 percent, or $8 million, to $780 million. The vast majority of the impact was due to lower equity markets, as well as outflows in our Asset Management business, partially offset by net inflows in wrap and annuity variable accounts.
 
Distribution fees declined 15 percent, or $72 million, to $422 million, primarily driven by the impact of client reinvestment of proceeds from real estate investment trust liquidations in the second quarter of 2007.
 
decreased 22 percent, or $114 million, to $393 million, primarily due to lower fixed annuity and certificate balances, a decline in income from other investments (including seed money), and $27 million in net pretax realized investment losses.
Net investment income
 
Premiums increased 1 percent, or $2 million, to $268 million, primarily due to growth in Auto & Home premiums.
 
Other revenues declined 4 percent, or $6 million, to $158 million, primarily driven by reduced revenues from certain limited partnerships consolidated under EITF 04-5. These partnerships had corresponding expense reductions primarily in the General and administrative expense line.
 
Banking and deposit interest expense declined 36 percent, or $24 million, to $42 million, primarily due to lower certificate balances and a decline in short-term interest rates.
 
Expenses
 
Consolidated expenses declined 9 percent, or $166 million, to $1.7 billion, in line with lower revenues and reflecting expense management initiatives. Total expenses in the second quarter of 2007 included $63 million of non-recurring separation costs.
 
Distribution expenses declined 3 percent, or $16 million, to $517 million, primarily due to declines in advisor compensation reflecting lower year-over-year cash sales. These expenses also reflect growth in our franchisee advisor platform and product mix shift resulting in lower deferrals. As a result, we recognized a higher percentage of these expenses in the current period.
 
Interest credited to fixed accounts decreased 11 percent, or $23 million, to $192 million, due to ongoing declines in fixed annuity balances.
 
Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased 2 percent, or $6 million, to $294 million, primarily due to increased life insurance and long-term care benefit expenses, partially offset by SFAS 157 valuation benefits due to changes in our variable annuity hedging strategy.
Amortization of DAC rose 15 percent, or $19 million, to $144 million. The impact of the equity market declines during the second quarter of 2008 lowered estimated gross profit for future periods, resulting in an additional $10 million of DAC amortization. This compared to an $11 million benefit in the second quarter of 2007.
 
General and administrative expense decreased 13 percent, or $88 million, to $567 million, reflecting cost controls, lower compensation-related expenses, and a decline in expenses from certain limited partnerships consolidated under EITF 04-5, which had corresponding revenue offsets.
 
Taxes
 
The effective tax rate was 11.4 percent for the quarter, compared to 20.0 percent in the prior-year period. The current quarter included $27 million of exceptional tax adjustments, which consisted of $19 million in adjustments related to FIN 48 and $8 million in benefits from effective tax planning. The second quarter of 2007 included $16 million of exceptional tax adjustments. We expect our tax rate for the remaining two quarters of 2008 to be in the 24-26 percent range.
 
Segment Financial Highlights
 
Our segment results reflect both the difficult market environment and our efforts to control expenses while investing for growth. Segment results do not include income taxes.
 
pretax income declined 50 percent, or $50 million, to $51 million.  The certificate and banking portion of the segment's results included a $24 million loss, primarily driven by $21 million of net realized securities losses.  Pretax income from the wealth management business declined 27 percent, or $28 million, to $75 million primarily driven by a decline in revenues due to market depreciation and the impact of prior-year period client reinvestment of proceeds from real estate investment trust liquidations. These impacts were partially offset by continued net inflows in wrap accounts and higher financial planning fees. Growth in sequential earnings reflects increased advisor cash sales of wrap, direct investment and certificates products, as well as continued expense controls.
Advice & Wealth Management
 
pretax income declined 48 percent, or $39 million, to $42 million, primarily due to lower assets, driven by declining equity markets.  Segment pretax income was also impacted by increased investment in third party distribution and a net $12 million benefit in the prior-year period from revenue related to CDO bond calls and investment management contract adjustments.  RiverSource net outflows in the quarter were primarily due to reduced mutual fund sales in the Ameriprise channel as client activity slowed, as well as anticipated outflows of institutional assets of a former affiliate. Redemption rates for RiverSource Funds remained stable. Threadneedle experienced anticipated outflows of lower-margin institutional assets and outflows of hedge fund assets due to portfolio management changes. Net inflows in Threadneedle retail funds were driven by an increase in year-over-year sales. Segment expenses remained well controlled.  The pending acquisition of J. & W. Seligman is expected to significantly increase our third party distribution and investment capabilities.
Asset Management
 
pretax income declined 10 percent, or $9 million, to $77 million. Excluding net realized gains (losses), the segment results declined 5 percent, or $4 million, to $82 million. The current quarter reflects a $10 million negative market impact on variable annuity DAC and DSIC amortization. Our variable annuity living benefit hedging performed within tolerances, with an immaterial impact to pretax income.  Substantially lower net outflows in fixed annuities reflect the market environment and sales initiatives.
Annuities
pretax income declined 4 percent, or $5 million, to $113 million. Excluding net realized gains (losses), segment results declined 3 percent to $114 million, primarily due to a combined $17 million increase in life claims and long-term care benefits, partially offset by lower Auto & Home benefits.
Protection
 
pretax loss before separation costs and net realized securities gain (losses) improved by $33 million to $46 million, primarily reflecting our continued focus on expense management.
Corporate & Other
 
Balance Sheet and Capital
 
We continued to maintain a strong, high quality balance sheet. During the second quarter of 2008, we repurchased 5.2 million shares of our common stock for $250 million.
 
We ended the quarter with more than $1 billion in excess capital. We anticipate continuing to have more than $1 billion in excess capital after the completion of our acquisition of J. & W. Seligman.
 
The weighted average diluted share count for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 was 226.0 million compared to 241.0 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.
 
Our commitment to maintaining the safety and soundness of our balance sheet is reflected in substantial liquidity, a high quality investment portfolio, low financial leverage and our continuing actions to manage risk exposures appropriately.
 
We recognized $27 million in pretax net realized investment losses, primarily due to other-than-temporary impairments to three AAA-rated Alt-A mortgage-backed securities. We are comfortable with the valuation of our subprime and Alt-A positions and continue to monitor our portfolio as credit markets evolve.
                
 
Cash and cash equivalents were approximately $3.4 billion at June 30, 2008, with $1.3 billion at the holding company.
                
 
Unrealized net investment losses in the Available-for-Sale investment portfolio were $0.9 billion at quarter end, up from $0.6 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2007.
                
 
The debt-to-capital ratio as of June 30, 2008 was 21.6 percent. The debt-to-capital ratio excluding non-recourse debt and with 75 percent equity credit for hybrid securities was 17.4 percent. For the second quarter of 2008, the ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 7.4 times.
                
 
Dividend
 
The strength of our balance sheet is reflected in the 13 percent, or $0.02, increase to the Company's quarterly cash dividend. The $0.17 per common share dividend is payable on August 22, 2008 to Ameriprise Financial shareholders of record at the close of business on August 8, 2008.
Contacts
 
 
 
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a diversified financial services company serving the comprehensive financial planning needs of the mass affluent and affluent. For more information, visit .
ameriprise.com
 
RiverSource mutual funds are distributed by RiverSource Distributors, Inc. and Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Members FINRA and managed by RiverSource Investments, LLC. For complete mutual fund ranking data and other important disclosures please refer to Exhibit A "RiverSource Mutual Fund Performance and Lipper Ranking" in the Second Quarter 2008 Statistical Supplement available at ir.ameriprise.com.
 
The Threadneedle group of companies constitutes the Ameriprise Financial international investment platform. The group consists of wholly owned subsidiaries of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and provides services independent from Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc., including Ameriprise Financial Services' broker-dealer business.
 
Ameriprise Certificates are issued by Ameriprise Certificate Company and distributed by Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA.
 
Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. offers financial planning services, investments, insurance and annuity products. RiverSource insurance and annuity products are issued by RiverSource Life Insurance Company, and in New York only by RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York, Albany, New York. Only RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York is authorized to sell insurance and annuity products in the state of New York. These companies are all part of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. CA License #0684538.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements. We have made various forward-looking statements in this report. Examples of such forward-looking statements include:
 
statements of our plans, intentions, expectations, objectives or goals, including those relating to asset flows, mass affluent and affluent client acquisition strategy, financial advisor retention and enrollments, general and administrative costs, consolidated tax rate; and excess capital position.
                 
statements about future economic performance, the performance of equity markets and interest rate variations and the economic performance of the United States and of global markets; and
                 
statements of assumptions underlying such statements.
                 
 
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "aim," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
 
Such factors include, but are not limited to:
 
changes in the valuations, liquidity and volatility in the interest rate, equity market, and foreign exchange environments;
                 
changes in the litigation and regulatory environment, including ongoing legal proceedings and regulatory actions, the frequency and extent of legal claims threatened or initiated by clients, other persons and regulators, and developments in regulation and legislation;
                 
our investment management performance and consumer acceptance of our products;
                 
effects of competition in the financial services industry and changes in product distribution mix and distribution channels;
                 
our capital structure, including ratings and indebtedness, limitations on subsidiaries to pay dividends, and the extent, manner, terms and timing of any share repurchase we may effect;
                 
risks of default by issuers or guarantors of investments we own or by counterparties to hedge, derivative, insurance or reinsurance arrangements;
                 
experience deviations from our assumptions regarding morbidity, mortality and persistency in certain annuity and insurance products, or from assumptions regarding market volatility underlying our hedges on guaranteed benefit annuity riders;
                 
the impacts of our efforts to improve distribution economics and to grow third-party distribution of our products;
                 
our ability to complete the acquisition opportunities we negotiate, and to realize the financial, operating and business fundamental benefits we plan for those opportunities;
                 
our ability to realize benefits from reengineering and tax planning; and
                 
general economic and political factors, including consumer confidence in the economy as well as the ability and inclination of consumers generally to invest, the costs of products and services we consume in the conduct of our business, and applicable legislation and regulation, including tax laws, tax treaties, fiscal and central government treasury policy, and regulatory rulings and pronouncements.
                 
 
We caution you that the foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. There may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements. The foregoing list of factors should be read in conjunction with the "Risk Factors" discussion included as Part 1,
Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for year-end 2007 filed with the SEC on February 29, 2008.
 
The financial results discussed in this release represent past performance only, which may not be used to predict or project future results. For information about Ameriprise Financial entities, please refer to the Second Quarter 2008 Statistical Supplement available at ir.ameriprise.com and the tables that follow in this release.
 
Tables
 
 
 
#
  Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 For this non-GAAP presentation, after-tax is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35%.
(1)
 
 
 For this non-GAAP presentation, after-tax is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35%.
(1)
 
 
 
(1)
     R
eturn on equity excluding separation costs and net realized securities gains (losses) calculated using adjusted earnings (income excluding after-tax non-recurring separation costs) excluding after-tax net realized securities gains (losses) in the numerator, and equity excluding equity allocated to expected non-recurring separation costs as of the last day of the preceding four quarters and the current quarter in the denominator.
 
Return on equity calculations use the trailing twelve months' return, and equity calculated using a five point average of quarter-end equity.
 
 
 The Company's junior subordinated notes receive an equity credit of at least 75% by the majority of the rating agencies.
(1)
 
 2008 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. All rights reserved.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
 
For this non-GAAP presentation, after-tax separation costs are calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35%.
(2)
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 Year-to-date is sum of current year prior quarters.
(1)
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
Equal Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Counts the number of Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total number of Class A funds.  Asset size is not a factor.
 
Asset Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Sums the assets of the Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total Class A assets.  Funds with more assets will receive a greater share of the total percentage above or below median.
 
Aggregated data shows only actively-managed mutual funds by affiliated investment managers.
 
Aggregated data does not include mutual funds sub-advised by advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc., RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund, RiverSource Cash Management Fund and RiverSource Tax Free Money Market Fund.
 
Aggregated equity rankings include RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series and other balanced and asset allocation funds that invest in both equities and fixed income.
 
RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series funds are funds of mutual funds that may invest in third-party sub-advised funds.
 
Aggregated data only includes mutual funds in existence as of current quarter end.  Refer to Exhibit A for RiverSource individual mutual fund performance rankings and other important disclosures.
 
Exhibit A includes RiverSource performance rankings for funds sub-advised by non-affiliated advisors for general reference although not included in the summary above.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
Amounts represent British Pound to US dollar conversion.
(1)
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
Includes lump sum deposits.
(1)
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
 
Variance of 100% or greater.
#
 
The majority of the amounts represent the impact of inter-segment transfer pricing for both revenues and expenses.
(1)
 
Variance of 100% or greater.
#
 
 
  See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
 
  The Company's junior subordinated notes receive an equity credit of at least 75% by the majority of rating agencies.
(2)
 
  Effective July 10, 2008 rating changed from A- to A.
(3)
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the Company) follows accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP).  This report includes information on both a U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP basis.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in this report exclude items that are a direct result of our separation from American Express Company, consisting of non-recurring separation costs.  These non-GAAP financial measures, which our management views as important indicators of financial performance, include:
 
Adjusted earnings;
Separation costs, after-tax;
Adjusted pretax margin;
Adjusted earnings margin;
Adjusted return on equity;
Adjusted earnings per diluted share;
Total debt excluding non-recourse debt;
Total debt excluding non-recourse debt and 75% equity credit;
Total capital excluding non-recourse debt;
Debt to total capital excluding non-recourse debt;
Debt to total capital excluding non-recourse debt and 75% equity credit;
Pretax operating earnings;
Pretax operating earnings margin; and
Total expenses before separation costs for the Financial Summary and Corporate & Other segment;
 
Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures excluding these specific income statement impacts best reflect the underlying performance of the Company's ongoing operations and facilitates a more meaningful trend analysis.  These non-GAAP measures are also used for goal setting, certain compensation related to the Company's annual incentive award program and evaluating the Company's performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts.
 
The Company presents debt to capital ratios excluding non-recourse debt of structured entities consolidated in accordance with FIN 46(R), EITF 04-5 and other accounting literature and with a 75% equity credit for the Company's junior subordinated debt. Management believes that the debt to capital ratios excluding this non-recourse debt better represent the Company's capital structure.
 
Reclassification
 
Certain prior period information has been restated to conform to current period presentation.
 
We have reclassified the mark-to-market adjustment on certain derivatives from Net investment income to various expense lines. The mark-to-market adjustment on derivatives hedging variable annuity living benefits, equity indexed annuities and stock market certificates were reclassified to Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, Interest credited to fixed accounts and Banking and deposit interest expense, respectively. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
- This segment provides financial advice and full service brokerage and banking services, primarily to retail clients, through our financial advisors. Our advisors distribute a diversified selection of both proprietary and non-proprietary products to help clients meet their financial needs. A significant portion of revenues in this segment are fee-based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets from primarily certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for distributing non-proprietary products and earns intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for distributing our proprietary products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
Advice & Wealth Management
 
This segment provides investment advice and investment products to retail and institutional clients. Threadneedle Investments predominantly provides international investment products and services, and RiverSource Investments predominantly provides domestic products and services. Domestic retail products are primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and also through third-party distribution. International retail products are primarily distributed through third parties. Products accessed by consumers on a retail basis include mutual funds, variable product funds underlying insurance and annuity separate accounts, separately managed accounts and collective funds. Asset Management products are also distributed directly to institutions through an institutional sales force. Institutional asset management products include traditional asset classes separate accounts, collateralized loan obligations, hedge funds and property funds. Revenues in this segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. This segment earns intersegment revenue for investment management services. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our  Advice & Wealth Management, Annuities and Protection segments.
Asset Management -
 
This segment provides RiverSource Life variable and fixed annuity products to our retail clients primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Managment segment and to the retail clients of unaffiliated distributors through third-party distribution. Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on underlying account balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. Revenues for our fixed annuity products are primarily earned as net investment income on underlying account balances, with profitability significantly impacted by the spread between net investment income earned and interest credited on the fixed account balances. We also earn net investment income on owned assets supporting annuity benefits reserves and capital supporting the business. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource fund under the variable annuity contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
Annuities -
 
- This segment offers a variety of protection products to address the identified protection and risk management needs of our retail clients including life, disability income and property-casualty insurance. Life and disability income products are primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment. Our property-casualty products are sold direct, primarily through affinity relationships. The primary sources of revenues for this segment are premiums, fees, and charges that we receive to assume insurance-related risk. We earn net investment income on owned assets supporting insurance reserves and capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of assets supporting variable universal life separate account balances. This segment earns intersegment revenues from fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
Protection
 
This segment consists of net investment income on corporate level assets, including unallocated equity and other revenues from various investments as well as unallocated corporate expenses. This segment also includes non-recurring costs associated with our separation from American Express, which ended in 2007.
Corporate & Other -
- Adjustment to net income including the after-tax effect on separation costs.
Adjusted Earnings
 
- A ratio using as the numerator adjusted earnings and as the denominator total net revenues.
Adjusted Earnings Margin
 
- Adjustments made to income before tax provision for separation costs.
Adjusted Pretax Income
 
- A ratio using as the numerator pretax income excluding separation costs and as the denominator total net revenues.
Adjusted Pretax Margin
 
- Adjusted return on equity ("ROE") is calculated using adjusted earnings in the numerator for the last twelve months and equity excluding the equity allocated to expected non-recurring separation costs as of the last day of the preceding four quarters and the current quarter in the denominator.
Adjusted Return on Equity
 
- Administered assets include assets for which we provide administrative services such as client assets invested in other companies' products that we offer outside of our wrap accounts. These assets include those held in clients' brokerage accounts. We do not exercise management discretion over these assets and do not earn a management fee. These assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Administered Assets
 
- Assets reported by the Company that include Hedge Funds and Collateralized Debt Obligations ("CDO").
Alternative Assets
 
- The internal allocation of consolidated shareholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), to our operating segments for purposes of measuring segment return on allocated equity.  Allocated equity does not represent insurance company risk-based capital or other regulatory capital requirements applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries. For the Corporate & Other segment, allocated equity also includes any excess capital.
Allocated Equity
 
Personal auto and home protection products marketed directly to customers through marketing affiliates such as Costco Wholesale Corporation, Delta Loyalty Management Services, Inc. and Ford Motor Credit Company. We sell these products through our auto and home subsidiary, IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company (doing business as Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance).
Auto & Home Insurance -
 
- Total shareholders' equity divided by the number of basic common shares outstanding at period-end.
Book Value per Share
 
- Cash sales are the dollar value volume indicator that captures gross new cash inflows which generate product revenue streams to our company. This includes primarily "client initiated" activity that results in an incremental increase in assets (owned, managed or administered), or premiums inforce (but doesn't need to result in time of sale revenue), or activity that doesn't increase assets or premiums inforce, but generates "fee revenue".
Cash Sales
 
- A ratio comprised of total debt divided by total capital. We also present debt to capital ratios excluding non-recourse debt of structured entities consolidated in accordance with FIN 46(R),  EITF 04-5 and other accounting literature and with a 75% equity credit for our junior subordinate debt.
Debt to Total Capital Ratio
 
- Deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") represents the costs of acquiring new protection, annuity and certain mutual fund business, principally direct sales commissions and other distribution and underwriting costs that have been deferred on the sale of annuity, life, disability income and long term care insurance and, to a lesser extent, deferred marketing and promotion expenses on auto and home insurance and deferred distribution costs on certain mutual fund products. These costs are deferred to the extent they are recoverable from future profits.
Deferred Acquisition Costs and Amortization
 
- EITF 04-5 provides guidance on whether a partnership should be consolidated by one of its partners. Our adoption of EITF 04-5 effective January 1, 2006 resulted in the consolidation of certain limited partnerships for which we are the general partner. As a result, we consolidate certain property fund limited partnerships managed by Threadneedle Investments and certain hedge funds managed by RiverSource Investments.
Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 04-5, "Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights" ("EITF 04-5")
 
- The period-end number of current clients who have received a financial plan, or have entered into an agreement to receive and have paid for a financial plan, divided by the number of active retail client groups, serviced by branded financial advisors.
Financial Planning Penetration
 
Life Insurance in-Force - The total amount of all life insurance death benefits currently insured by our company.
 
- - Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the RiverSource family of mutual funds, assets of institutional clients and client assets held in wrap accounts (retail accounts for which we receive an advice fee based on assets held in the account).  Managed external client assets also include assets managed by sub-advisors selected by us. Managed external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Managed External Client Assets
 
- Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we provide investment management services and recognize management fees, such as the assets of the general account and RiverSource Variable Product funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries.
Managed Owned Assets
 
Life insurance inforce less policyholder reserves net of re-insurance.
Net Amount at Risk -
 
Sales less redemptions and miscellaneous flows which may include reinvested dividends.
Net Flows -
 
A ratio representing net income as a percentage of total net revenues.
Net Income Margin -
 
- Owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we do not provide investment management services and do not recognize management fees, such as investments in non-proprietary funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries, as well as restricted and segregated cash and receivables.
Owned Assets
 
Income (loss) before income tax provision (benefit).
Pretax Income (Loss) -
 
A ratio representing pretax income as a percentage of total net revenues.
Pretax Income Margin -
 
- Pretax income plus or minus net realized gains (losses).
Pretax Operating Earnings
 
A ratio representing pretax operating earnings as a percentage of total net revenues.
Pretax Operating Earnings Margin -
 
Calculated using pretax income for the last twelve months and the average allocated equity as of the last day of the trailing four quarters and current quarter end.
Pretax Return on Allocated Equity -
 
- Securities America Financial Corporation ("SAFC") is a corporation whose sole function is to hold the stock of its operating subsidiaries, Securities America, Inc. ("SAI") and Securities America Advisors, Inc. ("SAA"). SAI is a registered broker-dealer and an insurance agency. SAA is an SEC registered investment advisor.
Securities America
- Represent assets and liabilities that are maintained and established primarily for the purpose of funding variable annuity and insurance products. The assets of the separate account are only available to fund the liabilities of the variable entity contract holders and others with contracts requiring premiums or other deposits to the separate account. Clients elect to invest premiums in stock, bond and/or money market funds depending on their risk tolerance. All investment performance, net of fees, is passed through to the client.
Separate Accounts
 
- Separation costs include expenses related to our separation from American Express Company. These costs are primarily associated with establishing the Ameriprise Financial brand, separating and reestablishing our technology platforms and advisor and employee retention programs.  These costs will end in 2007.
Separation Costs
 
For this non-GAAP presentation of non-recurring separation costs, after-tax is calculated in each quarter using the statutory tax rate of 35%, adjusted for permanent differences, if any.
Separation costs, after-tax -
 
- SOP 05-1 provides guidance on accounting for DAC associated with any insurance or annuity contract that is significantly modified or internally replaced with another contract.
SOP 05-1 ("Statement of Position"), "Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection With Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts"
 
- Distribution of RiverSource products, which include a variety of equity and fixed income mutual funds, annuities and insurance products, to retail clients through unaffiliated financial institutions and broker-dealers.  The Third Party channel is separate from the Branded Advisor, Threadneedle, SAFC, and Institutional sales channels.
Third Party Distribution
 
Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Limited is a holding company for the London-based Threadneedle companies, which provide investment management products and services.
Threadneedle - -
 
Total shareholders' equity plus total debt. Total capital is also presented excluding non-recourse debt.
Total Capital -
 
- Wrap accounts enable our clients to purchase other securities such as mutual funds in connection with investment advisory fee-based "wrap account" programs or services. We offer clients the opportunity to select products that include proprietary and non-proprietary funds. We currently offer both discretionary and non-discretionary investment advisory wrap accounts. In a discretionary wrap account, an unaffiliated investment advisor or our investment management subsidiary, RiverSource Investments, LLC chooses the underlying investments in the portfolio on behalf of the client. In a non-discretionary wrap account, the client chooses the underlying investments in the portfolio based, to the extent the client elects, in part or whole on the recommendations of their financial advisor. Investors in our wrap accounts generally pay an asset-based fee based on the assets held in their wrap accounts. These investors also pay any related fees or costs included in the underlying securities held in that that account, such as underlying mutual fund operating expenses and Rule 12b-1 fees.
Wrap Accounts
 
 
 
 
 
Equity Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of June 30, 2008
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
   Since fund inception returns and rankings are not available.  Actual fund inception date pre-dates data in Lipper database.
^
 Since inception returns and rankings for periods less than one year in length are cumulative.
(1)
 Mutual funds subadvised by advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
(2)
RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund data is for D shares.
(3)
 
 
 
  Since inception returns and rankings for periods less than one year in length are cumulative.
(1)
 
 
Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of June 30, 2008
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
Important Disclosures
 
Rankings based on annualized total returns, excluding sales charges.  Net asset value (NAV) returns for all periods would have been lower if the applicable sales charges were included.
 
Please note the following about the "Ranking since" Lipper Rankings: In order to obtain a more accurate "since inception" Lipper Ranking for funds with an inception prior to 2000, the  Thursday or month-end date following the actual inception date was used, rather than the actual inception date.  When researching since inception rankings, please use the "Ranking Since" date.
 
Please note the following about the "Annualized Returns @ POP":  The POP return is calculated assuming a one-time purchase of the Fund at the maximum sales charge listed in the exhibit.  RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund has no sales loads, however, a redemption fee of 0.50% is charged on shares redeemed within 180 days of purchase.
 
Net assets per fund include all share classes.  Assets for RiverSource Portfolio Builder Funds, RiverSource Income Builder Funds and RiverSource Retirement Plus Funds are invested in other  RiverSource Funds and therefore would be double counted if assets are summed to reach a total.
 
Fee waivers were in place for each subadvised fund shown and the return would have been lower for each Fund had fee waivers not been in place.
 
An investment in money market funds is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. Although these funds seek to preserve the value of your investment at $1.00 per share, it is possible to lose money by investing in these funds.
 
You should consider the investment objectives, risks, and charges and expenses of mutual funds carefully before investing. For a free prospectus, which contains this and other important information about the funds, call (800) 297-3863, TTY: (800) 846-4852.  Read the prospectus carefully before investing.
 
The RiverSource Global Technology Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives.
 
Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies often involve greater risk and potential volatility than investments in larger, more established companies.
 
The RiverSource Precious Metals Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives.
 
The RiverSource Real Estate Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives. An investment in a real estate fund is subject to the same risks as a direct investment in real estate. Such risks include market risk, economic risk and mortgage rate risk.
 
International investing involves increased risk and volatility, not typically associated with domestic investing, due to changes in currency exchange rates, foreign government regulations, differences in auditing and accounting standards, potential political and economic instability, limited liquidity and volatile prices. The risks of international investing are particularly significant in emerging markets.
 
There are risks associated with an investment in a bond fund, including the impact of interest rates, credit and inflation. These and other risk considerations are discussed in the fund's prospectus. In general, bond prices rise when interest rates fall and vice versa. This effect is usually more pronounced for longer-term securities. Non-investment grade securities, commonly called "high-yield" or "junk" bonds,  generally have more volatile prices and carry more risk to principle and income than investment grade securities.
High yield funds invest in lower-rated bonds, which generally have more volatile prices and carry more risk to principal and income than investment grade securities.
 
Principal risks associated with the RiverSource Inflation Protected Securities Fund include style risk, interest rate risk, market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and sector/concentration risk. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS) are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. The U.S. government guarantee applies only to the underlying TIPS securities, and not the Fund itself.
 
Income from tax-exempt funds may be subject to state and local taxes, and a portion of income may be subject to the federal and/or state alternative minimum tax for certain investors. Federal income tax  rules will apply to any capital gains distribution.
 
Shares of the RiverSource Short Duration U.S. Government Fund and the RiverSource U.S. Government Mortgage Fund are not insured or guaranteed by the U.S. government.
 
The Floating Rate Fund invests primarily in floating rate loans, the market value of which may fluctuate, sometimes rapidly and unpredictably.  The principal risks of investing in the fund include liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, counterparty risk, highly leveraged transactions risk, derivatives risk, confidential information access risk, and impairment of collateral risk. Generally, when interest rates rise, the prices of fixed income securities fall, however, securities or loans with floating interest rates can be less sensitive to interest rate changes, but they may decline in value if their interest rates do not rise as  much as interest rates in general.  Limited liquidity may affect the ability of the fund to purchase or sell floating rate loans and may have a negative impact on fund performance.  The floating rate loans and  securities in which the fund invests generally are lower-rated (non-investment grade) and are more likely to experience a default, which results in more volatile prices and more risk to principal and income than investment grade loans or securities. See the Fund's prospectus for information on these and other risks associated with the Fund.
 
The RiverSource Portfolio Builder Funds, RiverSource Income Builder Funds and RiverSource Retirement Plus Funds are "funds of funds" comprised of holdings in several different RiverSource funds, which may include small cap, mid cap, large cap, money market, international, bond and/or other sector funds. Specific risk considerations are discussed in each fund's prospectus. Each of the underlying funds in which the portfolio invests has its own investment risks, and those risks can affect the value of each portfolio's shares and investments. See each fund's prospectus for specific risks that may be associated with the underlying funds.
 
"Standard & Poor's," "S&P," "S&P 500," and "Standard & Poor's 500" are trademarks of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. These trademarks and service marks have been licensed for use by RiverSource Investments. The Funds are not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Standard & Poor's or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates (the "Licensors") and the Licensors make no representation regarding the advisability of investing in the Funds.
 
Investment products are not federally or FDIC insured, are not deposits or obligations of, or guaranteed by any financial institution; and involve investment risks including possible loss of principal and fluctuation in value.
 
RiverSource mutual funds are distributed by RiverSource Distributors, Inc. and Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc., Members FINRA, and managed by RiverSource Investments, LLC.   These companies are part of Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
SM
 
Brokerage, investment and financial advisory services are made available through Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA and SIPC. Ameriprise Bank, FSB, member FDIC, provides certain deposit and lending products and services for Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Ameriprise Bank, FSB deposit products are FDIC-insured up to $100,000 per customer.
 
RiverSource Distributors, Inc. (Distributor), Member FINRA. Insurance and annuity products are issued by RiverSource Life Insurance Company, and in New York only by RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York, Albany, NY. Only RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York is authorized to sell insurance products in the state of NY.
 
RiverSource Investments employs Threadneedle as a sub-advisor and offers its institutional strategies on a referral basis.  Securities products offered through RiverSource Distributors, Inc., Member FINRA.  These companies are a part of Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
 
RiverSource Investments, LLC is an SEC-registered investment adviser that offers investment products and services under the names RiverSource Institutional Advisors, RiverSource Alternative Investments, RiverSource Capital Management and RiverSource Insurance Assets.  RiverSource Investments LLC also serves as the Investment Manager for the RiverSource mutual funds.
 
Ameriprise Certificates are issued by Ameriprise Certificate Company and distributed by Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA.
 
Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance issues auto, home and umbrella insurance underwritten by AMEX Assurance Company (AMEX Assurance) or IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company (IDS Property Casualty), DePere, WI.
 
Mortgages and home equity loans are provided by Ameriprise Bank, FSB, an FDIC-insured federal savings bank. Ameriprise Bank, FSB, an Equal Housing Lender, is an Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. company.
 
These companies, including Securities America, Inc., Member FINRA, are all affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
 
 
 
 
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
             
 
In GAAP financial statements, separation costs are part of continuing operations. For this non-GAAP presentation, after-tax separation costs are calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35%.
(2)
             
Return on equity is calculated using the trailing twelve months income in the numerator and equity, calculated using a five point average of quarter-end equity, in the denominator.
(1)
             
 
Adjusted return on equity is calculated using adjusted earnings (excluding non-recurring separation costs) in the numerator, and equity excluding the equity allocated to expected non-recurring separation costs as of the last day of the preceding four quarters and the current quarter in the denominator.
(2)
             
 
 
 
 
(1)
    
In accordance with EITF 04-5, reflects consolidation of property fund limited partnerships managed by Threadneedle and hedge fund limited partnerships managed by RiverSource
(2)
    
Pretax realized net investment gains and (losses)
(3)
    
Mean reversion of DAC and DSIC
(4)
    
Exceptional tax adjustments
 
 
(1)
 
In accordance with EITF 04-5, reflects consolidation of property fund limited partnerships managed by Threadneedle and hedge fund limited partnerships managed by RiverSource
(2)
 
Pretax realized net investment gains and (losses)
(3)
 
Mean reversion of DAC and DSIC
(4)
 
Exceptional tax adjustments
 
      
VA rider hedge impact can be found on page 18 of the Statistical Supplement
 
 
 
(1)
  
Pretax realized net investment gains and (losses)
(2)
  
Decrease in tax expense as a result of prior period tax returns
(3)
  
In accordance with EITF 04-5, reflects consolidation of property fund limited partnerships managed by Threadneedle and hedge fund limited partnerships managed by RiverSource
(4)
  
Mean reversion of DAC and DSIC


