FILE:AMP/AMP-8K-20081029160650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) 
October 29, 2008
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code 
(612) 671-3131
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02       Results of Operations and Financial Conditions.
 
On October 29, 2008, Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2008.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference and furnished herewith. In addition, the Company furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.2, its Statistical Supplement for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008.
 
We follow accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and the financial information furnished as Exhibit 99.2 include information on both a GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted basis.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in these exhibits exclude items that are a direct result of our separation from American Express Company which consist of non-recurring separation costs. Our non-GAAP financial measures, which our management views as important indicators of financial performance, include the following: adjusted earnings (loss), after-tax (adjusted to exclude separation costs, after-tax); separation costs, after-tax; credit-related losses, after-tax; RiverSource 2a-7 money market funds support costs, after-tax; expenses related to unaffiliated money market funds, after-tax; core operating earnings; core operating earnings, after-tax; credit market losses; core operating return on equity; return on equity excluding separation costs; adjusted return on equity; adjusted earnings per diluted share; adjusted pretax income (losses); adjusted pretax margin; adjusted earnings margin; total expenses before separation costs;  pretax return on allocated equity for pretax segment income; pretax operating earnings; and pretax operating earnings margin. Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures excluding these specific income statement impacts best reflects the underlying performance of our 2008 operations and facilitates a more meaningful trend analysis. These non-GAAP measures were used for goal setting, certain compensation related to our annual incentive award program and evaluating our performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts.
 
We also present in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 debt to capital ratios that exclude the effect of a nonrecourse collateralized debt obligation consolidated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," as revised, and non-recourse debt of certain property fund limited partnerships managed by our subsidiary, Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Limited, consolidated in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 04-5, "Determining whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights." Management believes that the debt to capital ratios, excluding this non-recourse debt, better represent our capital structure.  In addition, we provide debt to capital ratio information that reflects an equity credit on our junior subordinated notes issued on May 26, 2006. These junior subordinated notes receive at least a 75% equity credit by the majority of the rating agencies.
 
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
        
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
 
MINNEAPOLIS  October 29, 2008 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (NYSE: AMP) today reported a net loss of $70 million, or ($0.32) per share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, compared to net income of $198 million, or $0.83 per share, in the prior year quarter. Third quarter 2008 results were negatively impacted by $301 million in after-tax losses primarily driven by previously disclosed credit-related losses in Lehman Brothers and Washington Mutual securities, costs of supporting RiverSource 2a-7 money market funds and expenses related to unaffiliated money market funds.
 
Core operating earnings for the third quarter of 2008, which exclude the losses from credit market dislocation, were $231 million after-tax, or $1.04 per share, compared to core operating earnings of $237 million after-tax, or $0.99 per share, in the third quarter of 2007.
 
In the quarter, core operating earnings were negatively impacted by the continuing decline in equity markets, clients' shift to more cash-driven products compared to traditional sales activities, and a lower yield on the company's investment portfolio as a result of strengthening its liquidity position. These impacts were partially offset by favorable adjustments from updating valuation assumptions and conversion to a new valuation system for RiverSource Life products. Consistent with prior quarters, the company continues to manage expenses prudently to mitigate the impact of lower revenues.
 
The company maintains a high-quality balance sheet and strong liquidity, with more than $4 billion in cash and cash equivalents. Management expects to have approximately $1 billion in excess capital at the end of 2008 after allocating capital to previously announced acquisitions.
 
"Credit market events and weak equity markets affected both our earnings and client activity in the third quarter," said Jim Cracchiolo, chairman and chief executive officer. "Despite these market effects, the decisions and investments we've made have reinforced the strength of our business: Our client retention is strong, our advisors to report consistently high levels of satisfaction, and we are capturing retail asset flows.
 
"We continue to maintain strong capital and liquidity positions, and we are managing expenses carefully. While markets remain challenging, I am confident that our strengths, along with our diversified business model, will allow us to emerge from this difficult period in a stronger competitive position."
 
Third Quarter 2008 Summary
 
Management believes the exclusion of after-tax losses due to credit market dislocation from net income best reflects the underlying performance of the business for the current quarter. Management also believes that the presentation of adjusted measures best reflects the underlying performance of 2007 operations, as it excludes non-recurring separation costs. Excluding non-recurring separation costs is consistent with the non-GAAP financial information presented in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for year-end 2007, filed on February 29, 2008 with the SEC.  For the non-GAAP presentation of after-tax amounts throughout this release, the tax effect is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35 percent.
 
 
 
 
Not Meaningful.
NM
  
For this non-GAAP presentation, after-tax is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35%.
(1)
            
Diluted shares used in this calculation represent basic shares due to the net loss. Using actual diluted shares would result in anti-dilution.
(2)
            
 
Excluded from core operating earnings were the following impacts from the dislocation in credit markets in the third quarter of 2008:
 
$213 million, or $0.96 per share, in after-tax credit-related losses:
                 
$89 million in realized losses related to Lehman Brothers securities,
                 
$43 million in realized losses related to Washington Mutual securities,
                 
$66 million in realized losses of non-agency, residential mortgage-backed securities,
                 
$12 million in realized losses related to other securities, and
                 
$3 million in write-offs of Lehman Brothers derivatives. The pretax amount is reflected in the benefits, claims, losses and settlement expense line.
                 
 
$57 million, or $0.26 per share, in after-tax expenses to support $1 net asset values of RiverSource 2a-7 money market funds that held Lehman Brothers commercial paper:
                 
$50 million for the purchase of Lehman Brothers commercial paper at 100 percent plus accrued interest, less the then current market value. The pretax amount is reflected in the general and administrative expense line.
                 
$7 million reflecting the decline in price from the date of purchase through September 30, 2008. The pretax amount is reflected in net investment income.
                 
 
$31 million, or $0.14 per share, in after-tax expenses related to unaffiliated money market funds:
                 
$23 million for guaranteeing specific client holdings. The pretax amount is reflected in the general and administrative expense line.
                 
$8 million for a provision for losses on receivables. The pretax amount is reflected in distribution fees.
                 
 
In the quarter, core operating earnings were significantly impacted by equity market depreciation, lower client activity and a lower yield on the company's investment portfolio as a result of strengthening its liquidity position. Core operating earnings also included the following disclosed items:
 
$40 million in net after-tax benefits, or $0.18 per share, resulting from a:
                 
$69 million benefit from the combined impact of the company's annual detailed review of valuation assumptions for RiverSource Life products and the conversion to a new industry standard valuation system that provided enhanced actuarial modeling capabilities, and a
                 
$29 million loss from the market's impact on deferred acquisition cost (DAC) and deferred sales inducement cost (DSIC) balances.
                 
 
$9 million in after-DAC, after-tax benefits, or $0.04 per share, from variable annuity hedge ineffectiveness. This includes a benefit from the impact of credit spread widening on the SFAS 157 valuation of the liability. This benefit was partially offset by underlying hedge performance.
                 
 
$14 million in tax benefits, or $0.06 per share, from finalizing prior period tax returns.
                 
 
Liquidity and Balance Sheet
 
Management's long-standing focus on risk management and risk-return based decision-making has positioned the company well.
 
As of September 30, 2008, the company had strong balance sheet fundamentals:
 
Substantial amounts of uncommitted liquidity
Cash and cash equivalents were over $4 billion, up $0.6 billion from the second quarter of 2008, with $1.3 billion at the holding company.
                 
In addition, the company maintains back-up lines of credit at parent, subsidiary and mutual fund levels.
                 
 
Excess capital and conservative capital management
The company had more than $1 billion in excess capital.
                 
RiverSource Life companies' estimated risk-based capital ratio was well in excess of the companies' target to maintain AA ratings, even after investment losses and an extraordinary dividend of $375 million in the quarter to transfer a portion of excess capital to the parent company.
                 
The company repurchased 2.3 million shares of its common stock in the quarter for $94 million.
                 
 
High quality investment portfolio
The company's Available-for-Sale portfolio of approximately $23 billion is both well-diversified and high-quality.
                 
Realized losses in the quarter were primarily driven by credit market dislocations, primarily Lehman Brothers and Washington Mutual, and to a lesser extent, non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities.
                 
Net unrealized losses were approximately $1.5 billion, or $1.0 billion after-tax. The increase in unrealized losses in the quarter was primarily the result of illiquidity driving increased corporate credit spreads, not specific credit events.
                 
Approximately 7 percent of the portfolio is rated below investment grade.
                 
The company's $3 billion commercial mortgage loan portfolio has an average loan-to-value ratio of 54 percent, a coverage ratio of over 1.8 times, and has experienced no delinquencies for the past 9 quarters.
                 
 
Conservative capital ratios
The debt-to-capital ratio was 23.6 percent.
                 
The debt-to-capital ratio excluding non-recourse debt and with 75 percent equity credit for hybrid securities was 18.6 percent.
                 
The year-to-date 2008 ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 3.4 times.
                 
 
Management believes the company has the liquidity, capital and asset quality to support its business model through economic cycles.
 
More than adequate liquidity to meet expected demands
No securities lending of its owned assets.
                 
No reliance on commercial paper, bank lines or other short-term institutional funding for liquidity.
                 
No debt maturities until November 15, 2010.
                 
 
Preservation of conservative capital position
The company will continue to utilize its enterprise risk management capabilities and invest in product hedging to anticipate and mitigate risk within tolerance levels.
                 
Management believes it will have approximately $1 billion in excess capital at year end, after allocating capital to previously announced acquisitions, and has no plans to access the equity markets.
                 
In light of the current market environment and the company's conservative approach, management has temporarily suspended its stock repurchase program.
                 
Given the strength of its financial position, the company will continue to maintain its current quarterly cash dividend. The $0.17 per common share dividend is payable on November 21, 2008 to Ameriprise Financial shareholders of record at the close of business on November 7, 2008.
                 
 
Well positioned asset portfolio
While the portfolio is not immune to additional impairments, the company's high level of liquidity mitigates the risk of having to sell securities in an unrealized loss position.
                 
The entire net after-tax unrealized loss position represented approximately 13 percent of total shareholders' equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). Management believes the majority of the unrealized loss position will not be realized.
                 
The company maintains low investment leverage, reflected as investments as a multiple of equity. Therefore, relative changes in the value of the portfolio will have a lower impact on equity.
                 
 
Additional detail on the company's investment portfolio has been posted to its investor relations website at ir.ameriprise.com.
 
Third Quarter 2008 Highlights
 
The company's client base remained stable, with continued strong client retention of 94 percent.
                 
 
Branded financial planning net cash sales increased 9 percent to $48 million in the quarter.
                 
 
The franchisee advisor force increased 2 percent compared to the prior year, to 7,830. Employee advisor attrition slowed in the quarter while the company continued its reengineering efforts.
                 
 
The company demonstrated its ability to continue to meet clients' changing needs by generating retail net inflows of $2.0 billion in the quarter, compared to $2.5 billion in net inflows in the prior year quarter and $1.1 billion in net inflows in the prior quarter. Retail net inflows in the third quarter of 2008 included a mix shift to cash holdings from other products, which is reflected in lower flows into wrap accounts, retail funds and variable annuities.
                 
 
Owned, managed and administered assets decreased 20 percent year-over-year to $396 billion as of September 30, 2008, reflecting the 24 percent decline in the S&P 500 Index over the same time period, as net inflows in wrap and variable annuities were more than offset by net outflows in asset management products.
                 
 
Life insurance in-force grew to $192 billion, up 4 percent from the prior-year period.
                 
 
The company's previously announced acquisitions remain on-track and are expected to close in the fourth quarter.
                 
 
 
 
B/(W) means the percent 2008 core operating earnings are either better than or worse than 2007 GAAP earnings.
*
         
Not Meaningful.
NM
   
Includes write-off of distribution revenue receivable from unaffiliated money market funds.
(1)
       
Includes securities losses related to the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, Washington Mutual and non-agency, residential mortgage-backed securities and realized losses related to other securities.
(2)
       
Includes a loss on derivatives related to the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy.
(3)
       
Includes support costs related to RiverSource 2a-7 money market funds and unaffiliated money market funds
(4)
       
Reflects tax at the statutory rate of 35% on all impacts related to the credit market losses.
(5)
       
 
Third Quarter 2008 Consolidated Results
 
The company reported a net loss of $70 million for the third quarter of 2008. Excluding $301 million of after-tax impacts from credit market dislocation for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and $39 million of after-tax separation costs for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, core operating earnings declined 3 percent to $231 million.
 
Total net revenues declined 22 percent, or $470 million, to $1.6 billion, primarily due to declines in net investment income driven by credit market events in the quarter. Excluding these impacts, net revenues were $2.0 billion, down 6 percent. The impact of equity market depreciation, lower client activity and lower yield on the investment portfolio was partially offset by favorable adjustments from updating valuation assumptions and conversion to a new valuation system for RiverSource Life products.
 
Management and financial advice fees declined 10 percent, or $77 million, to $721 million. The majority of the impact was due to equity market depreciation.
 
Distribution fees declined 14 percent, or $59 million, to $376 million, primarily driven by lower client activity. Excluding the provision for losses on receivables from unaffiliated money market funds, distribution fees were down 11 percent. The company believes market turmoil resulted in clients' decreased risk tolerance, reflected in an increase in client cash and deposit balances in the quarter and slowing of sales and flows for other products, which generate distribution fees.
 
decreased 88 percent, or $439 million, to $62 million, primarily due to $333 million in pretax investment losses driven by credit market dislocation, including previously disclosed investments in Lehman Brothers and Washington Mutual, as well as impairments to non-agency, mortgage-backed securities. Excluding these impacts, net investment income declined 21 percent, primarily due to volume declines in annuity fixed accounts and a decrease in commercial mortgage loan reserves in the prior-year period. The decline also included the impact of substantially lower short-term interest rates on the company's increased liquidity position.
Net investment income
 
Premiums increased 3 percent, or $7 million, to $276 million, due to growth in Auto & Home premiums.
 
Other revenues increased 51 percent, or $84 million, to $249 million, largely due to a $95 million benefit from updated valuation assumptions and conversion to a new valuation system for RiverSource Life products, partially offset by a $12 million decline in revenues consolidated under EITF 04-5. Other revenues in the prior-year period included an immaterial impact from updating valuation assumptions for RiverSource Life products. For detail on the combined and net 2008 impacts, please see the table on page 14.
 
Banking and deposit interest expense decreased 25 percent, or $14 million, to $43 million, primarily due to lower crediting rates on certificate balances, partially offset by higher certificate balances.
 
Expenses
 
Consolidated expenses declined 5 percent, or $91 million, to $1.8 billion. Consolidated expenses declined 8 percent, or $149 million, when excluding $118 million of credit market impacts primarily reflecting the company's decisions to support RiverSource 2a-7 money market funds and expenses related to unaffiliated money market funds, and excluding $60 million in non-recurring separation-related expenses in the prior-year period. The decline in consolidated expenses reflects lower business volumes and continued strong
 
expense controls. The net impact of updating valuation assumptions and conversion to a new valuation system, as well as the market's impact on DAC and DSIC increased expenses by $35 million in the quarter, compared to an increase of $27 million in the prior-year period.
 
Distribution expenses declined 9 percent, or $46 million, to $473 million, primarily due to decreases in advisor compensation reflecting lower year-over-year cash sales and market-driven asset declines.
 
Interest credited to fixed accounts decreased 6 percent, or $12 million, to $200 million, due to year-over-year declines in annuity fixed account balances.
 
Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses decreased 46 percent, or $164 million, to $196 million. The decrease was primarily the result of a net $84 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions, conversion to a new valuation system and the market's impact on DSIC, partially offset by growth of business volumes and increased life, long-term care and disability insurance benefits. Prior year benefits increased $12 million from updating valuation assumptions. The third quarter of 2007 included $63 million of increased benefit expenses from the mark-to-market of variable annuity guaranteed benefit riders, compared to a decrease of $27 million in the current quarter.
 
Amortization of DAC increased 88 percent, or $112 million, to $240 million, primarily due to a $120 million expense from the net impact of updating valuation assumptions and conversion to a new valuation system, as well as the markets impact on DAC, compared to $15 million of additional expenses in the third quarter of 2007.
 
General and administrative expense increased 13 percent, or $79 million, to $667 million. Excluding $113 million from supporting RiverSource 2a-7 money market funds and expenses related to unaffiliated money market funds, general and administrative expense declined 6 percent, to $554 million. The decline reflected cost controls, lower compensation-related expense, and a decline in expenses from certain limited partnerships consolidated under EITF 04-5, which had corresponding revenue offsets.
 
Taxes
 
The third quarter of 2008 included a $14 million tax benefit from finalizing prior period tax returns, compared to a $21 million tax benefit in the prior-year period.
 
 
 
 
Segment Financial Highlights
 
Segment results reflect both the difficult market environment and management's efforts to control expenses while investing for growth. Segment results do not include income taxes.
 
reported a pretax loss of $77 million for the quarter, primarily driven by $118 million in net realized losses in the certificate and bank investment portfolios. Excluding impacts from the credit market events, segment core operating earnings declined 39 percent, or $37 million, to $57 million, primarily due to market-driven asset declines and lower client activity in the wealth management and distribution business. Expenses remained well-controlled, reflecting lower compensation related expenses and management's initiatives to reduce expenses to mitigate revenue declines.
Advice & Wealth Management
 
pretax income declined 79 percent, or $57 million, to $15 million, primarily due to lower assets, driven by market depreciation, negative foreign currency translation, losses on seed money and net outflows. RiverSource net outflows in the quarter were primarily due to reduced mutual fund sales in the Ameriprise channel as client activity slowed, as well as $3.7 billion in anticipated outflows of institutional assets of a former affiliate. Redemption rates for RiverSource Funds have remained stable throughout 2008. Threadneedle continued to experience anticipated outflows of lower-margin institutional assets, as well as outflows of hedge fund assets due to portfolio management changes. Segment expenses remained well controlled. The pending acquisition of J. & W. Seligman, which is scheduled to close in the coming weeks, is expected to significantly increase the company's third party distribution and investment capabilities.
Asset Management
 
reported a pretax loss of $34 million for the quarter, primarily due to $161 million in net realized impairments. Excluding credit market losses, segment core operating earnings increased 40 percent, or $36 million, to $127 million, primarily due to a $16
Annuities
million benefit to segment pre-tax income from the net impact of updating valuation assumptions and conversion to a new valuation system, as well as the negative impact of the markets on DAC and DSIC. Reflecting clients' decreasing risk tolerance and preference to hold cash, variable annuity net inflows declined to $0.6 billion in the quarter, while fixed annuity net outflows improved to $0.2 billion. In 2007, updating valuation assumptions and the market impact on DAC and DSIC resulted in an immaterial reduction in expense.
 
pretax income increased 12 percent, or $11 million, to $104 million. Excluding net realized losses of $44 million, segment core operating earnings increased 59 percent, or $55 million, to $148 million, primarily driven by a $46 million benefit from the net impact of updating valuation assumptions and conversion to a new valuation system, as well as the negative market impact on DAC, compared to a $30 million negative impact last year. Results also included a $26 million increase in life, disability income and long-term care benefits.
Protection
 
reported a pretax loss of $170 million, primarily due to a net $124 million impact from supporting RiverSource 2a-7 money market funds and expenses related to unaffiliated money market funds. Excluding these negative impacts, the $46 million segment loss improved by $87 million from the prior-year period, primarily due to $60 million of separation costs in the prior year quarter, as well as management's continued focus on expense management.
Corporate & Other
 
Contacts
 
 
 
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a diversified financial services company serving the comprehensive financial planning needs of the mass affluent and affluent. For more information, visit ameriprise.com.
 
RiverSource mutual funds are distributed by RiverSource Distributors, Inc. and Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Members FINRA and managed by RiverSource Investments, LLC. For complete mutual fund ranking data and other important disclosures please refer to Exhibit A "RiverSource Mutual Fund Performance and Lipper Ranking" in the Third Quarter 2008 Statistical Supplement available at ir.ameriprise.com.
 
The Threadneedle group of companies constitutes the Ameriprise Financial international investment platform. The group consists of wholly owned subsidiaries of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and provides services independent from Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc., including Ameriprise Financial Services' broker-dealer business.
 
Ameriprise Certificates are issued by Ameriprise Certificate Company and distributed by Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA.
 
Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. offers financial planning services, investments, insurance and annuity products. RiverSource insurance and annuity products are issued by RiverSource Life Insurance Company, and in New York only by RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York, Albany, New York. Only RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York is authorized to sell insurance and annuity products in the state of New York. These companies are all part of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. CA License #0684538.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements. The company has made various forward-looking statements in this report. Examples of such forward-looking statements include:
 
the statement of belief in this news release that the company has the liquidity, capital and asset quality to support its business model through economic cycles;
                 
the statement of belief in this news release that the company will have approximately $1 billion in excess capital at year end, after allocating capital to previously announced acquisitions;
                 
the statement in this news release that the company has no plans to access the equity markets;
                 
the statement in this news release that the company will continue to maintain its current quarterly cash dividend;
                 
the statement of belief in this news release that the majority of the unrealized loss position of the company's owned asset portfolio as of third-quarter-end will not be realized;
                 
the statement in this news release that relative changes in the value of the company's owned asset portfolio will have a lower impact on equity;
                 
the statement in this news release that the company's previously announced acquisitions remain on-track and are expected to close in the fourth quarter;
                 
the statement in this news release to the effect of asset outflows resulting from an anticipated $3.7 billion in outflows of institutional assets of a former affiliate;
                 
Statements of the company's plans, intentions, expectations, objectives or goals, including those relating to asset flows, mass affluent and affluent client acquisition strategy, financial advisor retention and enrollments, general and administrative costs, consolidated tax rate; and excess capital position;
                 
Statements about future economic performance, the performance of equity markets and interest rate variations and the economic performance of the United States and of global markets; and
                 
Statements of assumptions underlying such statements.
                 
 
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "aim," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
 
Such factors include, but are not limited to:
 
changes in the valuations, liquidity and volatility in the interest rate, equity market, and foreign exchange environments;
                 
 
changes in the litigation and regulatory environment, including ongoing legal proceedings and regulatory actions, the frequency and extent of legal claims threatened or initiated by clients, other persons and regulators, and developments in regulation and legislation;
                 
investment management performance and consumer acceptance of the company's products;
                 
effects of competition in the financial services industry and changes in product distribution mix and distribution channels;
                 
capital structure, including ratings and indebtedness, limitations on subsidiaries to pay dividends, and the extent, manner, terms and timing of any share repurchases management may effect;
                 
risks of default by issuers or guarantors of investments the company owns or by counterparties to hedge, derivative, insurance or reinsurance arrangements;
                 
experience deviations from the company's assumptions regarding morbidity, mortality and persistency in certain annuity and insurance products, or from assumptions regarding market volatility underlying our hedges on guaranteed benefit annuity riders;
                 
the impacts of the company's efforts to improve distribution economics and to grow third-party distribution of its products;
                 
the ability to complete the acquisition opportunities we negotiate, and to realize the financial, operating and business fundamental benefits we plan for those opportunities;
                 
the ability to realize benefits from reengineering and tax planning; and
                 
general economic and political factors, including consumer confidence in the economy as well as the ability and inclination of consumers generally to invest, the costs of products and services the company consumes in the conduct of its business, and applicable legislation and regulation, including tax laws, tax treaties, fiscal and central government treasury policy, and regulatory rulings and pronouncements.
                 
 
Management cautions you that the foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. There may also be other risks that management is unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Management undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements. The foregoing list of factors should be read in conjunction with the "Risk Factors" discussion included as Part 1, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for year-end 2007 filed with the SEC on February 29, 2008 and at.
ir.ameriprise.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=191716&p=irol-forwardLookingStatement
 
The financial results discussed in this release represent past performance only, which may not be used to predict or project future results. For information about Ameriprise Financial entities, please refer to the Third Quarter 2008 Statistical Supplement available at ir.ameriprise.com and the tables that follow in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Core operating return on equity calculated using core operating earnings, after-tax (net income excluding after-tax non-recurring separation costs, after-tax realized gains and losses and the after-tax impact of credit market dislocation) in the numerator, and equity excluding equity allocated to expected non-recurring separation costs as of the last day of the preceding four quarters and the current quarter in the denominator.
(1)
 
Return on equity excluding separation costs calculated using adjusted earnings (income excluding after-tax non-recurring separation costs) in the numerator, and equity excluding equity allocated to expected non-recurring separation costs as of the last day of the preceding four quarters and the current quarter in the denominator.
(2)
   
 
Return on equity calculations use the trailing twelve months' return, and equity calculated using a five point average of quarter-end equity.
 
 
 
The Company's junior subordinated notes receive an equity credit of at least 75% by the majority of the rating agencies.
(1)
            
 
 2008 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. All rights reserved.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
   
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
 
    For Q3 2008 diluted shares used in this calculation represent basic shares due to the net loss. Using actual diluted shares would result in anti-dilution.
(2)
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
 
Year-to-date is sum of current year prior quarters.
(1)
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
Equal Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Counts the number of Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total number of Class A funds. Asset size is not a factor.
 
Asset Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Sums the assets of the Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total Class A fund assets. Funds with more assets will receive a greater share of the total percentage above or below median.
 
Aggregated data shows only actively-managed mutual funds by affiliated investment managers.
 
Aggregated data does not include mutual funds sub-advised by advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc., RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund, RiverSource Cash Management Fund and RiverSource Tax Free Money Market Fund.
 
Aggregated equity rankings include RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series and other balanced and asset allocation funds that invest in both equities and fixed income.
 
RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series funds are funds of mutual funds that may invest in third-party sub-advised funds.
 
Aggregated data only includes mutual funds in existence as of current quarter end. Refer to Exhibit A for RiverSource individual mutual fund performance rankings and other important disclosures.
 
Exhibit A includes RiverSource performance rankings for funds sub-advised by non-affiliated advisors for general reference although not included in the summary above.
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
Amounts represent British Pound to US dollar conversion.
(1)
 
#   Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit (GMWB) and Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefit (GMAB) only.
(1)
         
Q3 2008 includes loss on derivatives related to Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, as disclosed on page 46.
(2)
         
Q3 2007 restated to exclude unlocking impact and conform with current presentation.
(3)
         
Variance of 100% or greater.
#
               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
 
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
   
Variance of 100% or greater.
#
     
 
 
The majority of the amounts represent the impact of inter-segment transfer pricing for both revenues and expenses.
(1)
   
Variance of 100% or greater.
#
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the Company) follows accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP).  This report includes information on both a U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP basis.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in this report exclude items that are a direct result of our separation from American Express Company, consisting of non-recurring separation costs.  These non-GAAP financial measures, which our management views as important indicators of financial performance, include: 
 
Adjusted earnings (loss);
Separation costs, after-tax;
Adjusted pretax income (losses);
Adjusted pretax margin;
Adjusted earnings margin;
Adjusted return on equity;
Adjusted earnings per diluted share;
Total debt excluding non-recourse debt;
Total debt excluding non-recourse debt and 75% equity credit;
Total capital excluding non-recourse debt;
Debt to total capital excluding non-recourse debt;
Debt to total capital excluding non-recourse debt and 75% equity credit;
Pretax operating earnings;
Pretax operating earnings margin; and
Total expenses before separation costs for the Financial Summary and Corporate & Other segment.
 
Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures excluding these specific income statement impacts best reflects the underlying performance of the Company's ongoing operations and facilitates a more meaningful trend analysis.  These non-GAAP measures are also used for goal setting, certain compensation related to the Company's annual incentive award program and evaluating the Company's performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts.
 
The Company presents debt to capital ratios excluding non-recourse debt of structured entities consolidated in accordance with FIN 46(R),  EITF 04-5 and other accounting literature and with a 75% equity credit for the Company's junior subordinated debt.  Management believes that the debt to capital ratios excluding this non-recourse debt better represent the Company's capital structure.
 
Reclassification
 
Certain prior period information has been restated to conform to current period presentation.
 
- This segment provides financial advice and full service brokerage and banking services, primarily to retail clients, through our financial advisors. Our advisors distribute a diversified selection of both proprietary and non-proprietary products to help clients meet their financial needs. A significant portion of revenues in this segment are fee-based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets from primarily certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for distributing non-proprietary products and earns intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for distributing our proprietary products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
Advice & Wealth Management
 
This segment provides investment advice and investment products to retail and institutional clients. Threadneedle Investments predominantly provides international investment products and services, and RiverSource Investments predominantly provides domestic products and services. Domestic retail products are primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and also through third-party distribution. International retail products are primarily distributed through third parties. Products accessed by consumers on a retail basis include mutual funds, variable product funds underlying insurance and annuity separate accounts, separately managed accounts and collective funds. Asset Management products are also distributed directly to institutions through an institutional sales force. Institutional asset management products include traditional asset classes separate accounts, collateralized loan obligations, hedge funds and property funds. Revenues in this segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. This segment earns intersegment revenue for investment management services. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management, Annuities and Protection segments.
Asset Management -
 
This segment provides RiverSource Life variable and fixed annuity products to our retail clients primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and to the retail clients of unaffiliated distributors through third-party distribution. Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on underlying account balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. Revenues for our fixed annuity products are primarily earned as net investment income on underlying account balances, with profitability significantly impacted by the spread between net investment income earned and interest credited on the fixed account balances. We also earn net investment income on owned assets supporting annuity benefits reserves and capital supporting the business. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable annuity contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
Annuities -
 
- This segment offers a variety of protection products to address the identified protection and risk management needs of our retail clients including life, disability income and property-casualty insurance. Life and disability income products are primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment. Our property-casualty products are sold direct, primarily through affinity relationships. The primary sources of revenues for this segment are premiums, fees, and charges that we receive to assume insurance-related risk. We earn net investment income on owned assets supporting insurance reserves and capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of assets supporting variable universal life separate account balances. This segment earns intersegment revenues from fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
Protection
 
This segment consists of net investment income on corporate level assets, including unallocated equity and other revenues from various investments as well as unallocated corporate expenses. This segment also includes non-recurring costs associated with our separation from American Express, which ended in 2007.
Corporate & Other -
 
 
- Adjustment to net income including the after-tax effect on separation costs.
Adjusted Earnings
 
- A ratio using as the numerator adjusted earnings and as the denominator total net revenues.
Adjusted Earnings Margin
 
- Adjustments made to income before tax provision for separation costs.
Adjusted Pretax Income
 
- A ratio using as the numerator adjusted pretax income and as the denominator total net revenues.
Adjusted Pretax Margin
 
- Adjusted return on equity ("ROE") is calculated using adjusted earnings in the numerator for the last twelve months and equity excluding the equity allocated to expected non-recurring separation costs as of the last day of the preceding four quarters and the current quarter in the denominator.
Adjusted Return on Equity
 
- Administered assets include assets for which we provide administrative services such as client assets invested in other companies' products that we offer outside of our wrap accounts. These assets include those held in clients' brokerage accounts. We do not exercise management discretion over these assets and do not earn a management fee. These assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Administered Assets
 
- Assets reported by the Company that include Hedge Funds and Collateralized Debt Obligations ("CDO").
Alternative Assets
 
- The internal allocation of consolidated shareholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), to our operating segments for purposes of measuring segment return on allocated equity.  Allocated equity does not represent insurance company risk-based capital or other regulatory capital requirements applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries. For the Corporate & Other segment, allocated equity also includes any excess capital.
Allocated Equity
 
Personal auto and home protection products marketed directly to customers through marketing affiliates such as Costco Wholesale Corporation, Delta Loyalty Management Services, Inc. and Ford Motor Credit Company. We sell these products through our auto and home subsidiary, IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company (doing business as Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance).
Auto & Home Insurance -
 
- Total shareholders' equity divided by the number of basic common shares outstanding at period-end.
Book Value per Share
 
- Cash sales are the dollar value volume indicator that captures gross new cash inflows which generate product revenue streams to our company. This includes primarily "client initiated" activity that results in an incremental increase in assets (owned, managed or administered), or premiums inforce (but doesn't need to result in time of sale revenue), or activity that doesn't increase assets or premiums inforce, but generates "fee revenue".
Cash Sales
 
- A ratio comprised of total debt divided by total capital. We also present debt to capital ratios excluding non-recourse debt of structured entities consolidated in accordance with FIN 46(R),  EITF 04-5 and other accounting literature and with a 75% equity credit for our junior subordinated debt. 
Debt to Total Capital Ratio
 
- Deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") represent the costs of acquiring new protection, annuity and certain mutual fund business, principally direct sales commissions and other distribution and underwriting costs that have been deferred on the sale of annuity, life, disability income and long term care insurance and, to a lesser extent, deferred marketing and promotion expenses on auto and home insurance and deferred distribution costs on certain mutual fund products. These costs are deferred to the extent they are recoverable from future profits.
Deferred Acquisition Costs and Amortization
 
- EITF 04-5 provides guidance on whether a partnership should be consolidated by one of its partners. Our adoption of EITF 04-5 effective January 1, 2006 resulted in the consolidation of certain limited partnerships for which we are the general partner. As a result, we consolidate certain property fund limited partnerships managed by Threadneedle Investments and certain hedge funds managed by RiverSource Investments.
Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 04-5, "Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights" ("EITF 04-5")
 
- The period-end number of current clients who have received a financial plan, or have entered into an agreement to receive and have paid for a financial plan, divided by the number of active retail client groups, serviced by branded financial advisors.
Financial Planning Penetration
 
The total amount of all life insurance death benefits currently insured by our company.
Life Insurance in-Force -
 
- Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the RiverSource family of mutual funds, assets of institutional clients and client assets held in wrap accounts (retail accounts for which we receive an advice fee based on assets held in the account).  Managed external client assets also include assets managed by sub-advisors selected by us. Managed external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Managed External Client Assets
 
- Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we provide investment management services and recognize management fees, such as the assets of the general account and RiverSource Variable Product funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries.
Managed Owned Assets
 
Life insurance inforce less policyholder reserves net of re-insurance.
Net Amount at Risk -
 
Sales less redemptions and miscellaneous flows which may include reinvested dividends.
Net Flows -
 
A ratio representing net income as a percentage of total net revenues.
Net Income Margin -
 
- Owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we do not provide investment management services and do not recognize management fees, such as investments in non-proprietary funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries, as well as restricted and segregated cash and receivables.
Owned Assets
 
Income (loss) before income tax provision (benefit).
Pretax Income (Loss) -
 
A ratio representing pretax income as a percentage of total net revenues.
Pretax Income Margin -
 
Pretax income plus or minus net realized gains (losses).
Pretax Operating Earnings -
 
A ratio representing pretax operating earnings as a percentage of total net revenues.
Pretax Operating Earnings Margin -
 
Calculated using pretax income for the last twelve months and the average allocated equity as of the last day of the trailing four quarters and current quarter end. 
Pretax Return on Allocated Equity -
 
- Securities America Financial Corporation ("SAFC") is a corporation whose sole function is to hold the stock of its operating subsidiaries, Securities America, Inc. ("SAI") and Securities America Advisors, Inc. ("SAA"). SAI is a registered broker-dealer and an insurance agency. SAA is an SEC registered investment advisor.
Securities America
- Represent assets and liabilities that are maintained and established primarily for the purpose of funding variable annuity and insurance products. The assets of the separate account are only available to fund the liabilities of the variable entity contract holders and others with contracts requiring premiums or other deposits to the separate account. Clients elect to invest premiums in stock, bond and/or money market funds depending on their risk tolerance. All investment performance, net of fees, is passed through to the client.
Separate Accounts
 
- Separation costs include expenses related to our separation from American Express Company. These costs are primarily associated with establishing the Ameriprise Financial brand, separating and reestablishing our technology platforms and advisor and employee retention programs.  These costs ended in 2007.
Separation Costs
 
For this non-GAAP presentation of non-recurring separation costs, after-tax is calculated in each quarter using the statutory tax rate of 35%, adjusted for permanent differences, if any.
Separation costs, after-tax -
 
- SOP 05-1 provides guidance on accounting for DAC associated with any insurance or annuity contract that is significantly modified or internally replaced with another contract.
SOP 05-1 ("Statement of Position"), "Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection With Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts"
 
- Distribution of RiverSource products, which include a variety of equity and fixed income mutual funds, annuities and insurance products, to retail clients through unaffiliated financial institutions and broker-dealers.  The Third Party channel is separate from the Branded Advisor, Threadneedle, SAFC, and Institutional sales channels.
Third Party Distribution
 
Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Limited is a holding company for the London-based Threadneedle companies, which provide investment management products and services.
Threadneedle -
 
Total shareholders' equity plus total debt. Total capital is also presented excluding non-recourse debt.
Total Capital -
 
- Wrap accounts enable our clients to purchase other securities such as mutual funds in connection with investment advisory fee-based "wrap account" programs or services. We offer clients the opportunity to select products that include proprietary and non-proprietary funds. We currently offer both discretionary and non-discretionary investment advisory wrap accounts. In a discretionary wrap account, an unaffiliated investment advisor or our investment management subsidiary, RiverSource Investments, LLC chooses the underlying investments in the portfolio on behalf of the client. In a non-discretionary wrap account, the client chooses the underlying investments in the portfolio based, to the extent the client elects, in part or whole on the recommendations of their financial advisor. Investors in our wrap accounts generally pay an asset-based fee based on the assets held in their wrap accounts. These investors also pay any related fees or costs included in the underlying securities held in that account, such as underlying mutual fund operating expenses and Rule 12b-1 fees.
Wrap Accounts
 
 
 
Equity Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of September 30, 2008
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
 
Equity Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of September 30, 2008
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
Equity Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of September 30, 2008
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
   Since fund inception returns and rankings are not available.  Actual fund inception date pre-dates data in Lipper database.
^
Since inception returns and rankings for periods less than one year in length are cumulative.
(1)
Mutual funds subadvised by advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
(2)
RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund data is for D shares.
(3)
 
Fixed Income Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of September 30, 2008
Source of Data: Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
  Since inception returns and rankings for periods less than one year in length are cumulative.
(1)
 
 
Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of September 30, 2008
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
Important Disclosures
 
Rankings based on annualized total returns, excluding sales charges.  Net asset value (NAV) returns for all periods would have been lower if the applicable sales charges were included.
 
Please note the following about the "Ranking since" Lipper Rankings: In order to obtain a more accurate "since inception" Lipper Ranking for funds with an inception prior to 2000, the Thursday or month-end date following the actual inception date was used, rather than the actual inception date.  When researching since inception rankings, please use the "Ranking Since" date.
 
Please note the following about the "Annualized Returns @ POP":  The POP return is calculated assuming a one-time purchase of the Fund at the maximum sales charge listed in the exhibit.  RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund has no sales loads, however, a redemption fee of 0.50% is charged on shares redeemed within 180 days of purchase.
 
Net assets per fund include all share classes.  Assets for RiverSource Portfolio Builder Funds, RiverSource Income Builder Funds and RiverSource Retirement Plus Funds are invested in other RiverSource Funds and therefore would be double counted if assets are summed to reach a total.
 
Fee waivers were in place for each subadvised fund shown and the return would have been lower for each Fund had fee waivers not been in place.
 
An investment in money market funds is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. Although these funds seek to preserve the value of your investment at $1.00 per share, it is possible to lose money by investing in these funds.
 
You should consider the investment objectives, risks, and charges and expenses of mutual funds carefully before investing. For a free prospectus, which contains this and other important information about the funds, call (800) 297-3863, TTY: (800) 846-4852.  Read the prospectus carefully before investing.
 
The RiverSource Global Technology Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives.
 
Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies often involve greater risk and potential volatility than investments in larger, more established companies.
 
The RiverSource Precious Metals Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives.
 
The RiverSource Real Estate Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives. An investment in a real estate fund is subject to the same risks as a direct investment in real estate. Such risks include market risk, economic risk and mortgage rate risk.
 
International investing involves increased risk and volatility, not typically associated with domestic investing, due to changes in currency exchange rates, foreign government regulations, differences in auditing and accounting standards, potential political and economic instability, limited liquidity and volatile prices. The risks of international investing are particularly significant in emerging markets.
 
There are risks associated with an investment in a bond fund, including the impact of interest rates, credit and inflation. These and other risk considerations are discussed in the fund's prospectus. In general, bond prices rise when interest rates fall and vice versa. This effect is usually more pronounced for longer-term securities. Non-investment grade securities, commonly called "high-yield" or "junk" bonds,  generally have more volatile prices and carry more risk to principle and income than investment grade securities.
 
High yield funds invest in lower-rated bonds, which generally have more volatile prices and carry more risk to principal and income than investment grade securities.
 
Principal risks associated with the RiverSource Inflation Protected Securities Fund include style risk, interest rate risk, market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and sector/concentration risk. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS) are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. The U.S. government guarantee applies only to the underlying TIPS securities, and not the Fund itself.
 
Income from tax-exempt funds may be subject to state and local taxes, and a portion of income may be subject to the federal and/or state alternative minimum tax for certain investors. Federal income tax rules will apply to any capital gains distribution.
Important Disclosures - continued
 
Shares of the RiverSource Short Duration U.S. Government Fund and the RiverSource U.S. Government Mortgage Fund are not insured or guaranteed by the U.S. government.
 
The Floating Rate Fund invests primarily in floating rate loans, the market value of which may fluctuate, sometimes rapidly and unpredictably.  The principal risks of investing in the fund include liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, counterparty risk, highly leveraged transactions risk, derivatives risk, confidential information access risk, and impairment of collateral risk. Generally, when interest rates rise, the prices of fixed income securities fall, however, securities or loans with floating interest rates can be less sensitive to interest rate changes, but they may decline in value if their interest rates do not rise as much as interest rates in general.  Limited liquidity may affect the ability of the fund to purchase or sell floating rate loans and may have a negative impact on fund performance.  The floating rate loans and securities in which the fund invests generally are lower-rated (non-investment grade) and are more likely to experience a default, which results in more volatile prices and more risk to principal and income than investment grade loans or securities. See the Fund's prospectus for information on these and other risks associated with the Fund.
 
The RiverSource Portfolio Builder Funds, RiverSource Income Builder Funds and RiverSource Retirement Plus Funds are "funds of funds" comprised of holdings in several different RiverSource funds, which may include small cap, mid cap, large cap, money market, international, bond and/or other sector funds. Specific risk considerations are discussed in each fund's prospectus. Each of the underlying funds in which the portfolio invests has its own investment risks, and those risks can affect the value of each portfolio's shares and investments. See each fund's prospectus for specific risks that may be associated with the underlying funds.
 
"Standard & Poor's," "S&P," "S&P 500," and "Standard & Poor's 500" are trademarks of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. These trademarks and service marks have been licensed for use by RiverSource Investments. The Funds are not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Standard & Poor's or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates (the "Licensors") and the Licensors make no representation regarding the advisability of investing in the Funds.
 
Investment products are not federally or FDIC insured, are not deposits or obligations of, or guaranteed by any financial institution; and involve investment risks including possible loss of principal and fluctuation in value.
 
RiverSource
SM
 mutual funds are distributed by RiverSource Distributors, Inc. and Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc., Members FINRA, and managed by RiverSource Investments, LLC.   These companies are part of Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
 
Brokerage, investment and financial advisory services are made available through Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA and SIPC. Ameriprise Bank, FSB, member FDIC, provides certain deposit and lending products and services for Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Ameriprise Bank, FSB deposit products are FDIC-insured up to $100,000 per customer.
 
RiverSource Distributors, Inc. (Distributor), Member FINRA. Insurance and annuity products are issued by RiverSource Life Insurance Company, and in New York only by RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York, Albany, NY. Only RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York is authorized to sell insurance products in the state of NY.
 
RiverSource Investments employs Threadneedle as a sub-advisor and offers its institutional strategies on a referral basis. Securities products offered through RiverSource Distributors, Inc., Member FINRA. These companies are a part of Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
 
RiverSource Investments, LLC is an SEC-registered investment adviser that offers investment products and services under the names RiverSource Institutional Advisors, RiverSource Alternative Investments, RiverSource Capital Management and RiverSource Insurance Assets.  RiverSource Investments LLC also serves as the Investment Manager for the RiverSource mutual funds.
 
Ameriprise Certificates are issued by Ameriprise Certificate Company and distributed by Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA.
 
Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance issues auto, home and umbrella insurance underwritten by AMEX Assurance Company (AMEX Assurance) or IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company (IDS Property Casualty), DePere, WI.
 
Mortgages and home equity loans are provided by Ameriprise Bank, FSB, an FDIC-insured federal savings bank. Ameriprise Bank, FSB, an Equal Housing Lender, is an Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. company.
 
These companies, including Securities America, Inc., Member FINRA, are all affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
            
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(2)
            
For this non-GAAP presentation, after-tax separation costs are calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35%.
 
 
Return on equity is calculated using the trailing twelve months income in the numerator and equity, calculated using a five point average of quarter-end equity, in the denominator.
(1)
   
 
Adjusted return on equity is calculated using adjusted earnings (excluding non-recurring separation costs) in the numerator, and equity excluding the equity allocated to expected non-recurring separation costs as of the last day of the preceding four quarters and the current quarter in the denominator.
(2)
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


