FILE:AMP/AMP-8K-20090128163214.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) 
January 28, 2009
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code 
(612) 671-3131
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02       Results of Operations and Financial Conditions.
 
On January 28, 2009, Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2008.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference and furnished herewith. In addition, the Company furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.2, its Statistical Supplement for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2008.
 
We follow accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and the financial information furnished as Exhibit 99.2 include information on both a GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted basis.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in these exhibits exclude items that reflect certain after-tax market related impacts and our integration and restructuring charges, as well as those items that are a direct result of our separation from American Express Company which consist of non-recurring separation costs. Our non-GAAP financial measures, which our management views as important indicators of financial performance, include the following: core operating earnings, after-tax; investment (gains)/losses, after-tax; credit market losses, after-tax; restructuring and integration charges, after-tax; DAC charges, after-tax; Variable Annuities, after-tax; separation costs, after-tax; total expenses before separation costs; pretax return on allocated equity for pretax segment income; pretax operating earnings; and pretax operating earnings margin. Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures excluding these specific income statement impacts best reflects the underlying performance of our 2008 and 2007 operations and facilitates a more meaningful trend analysis. These non-GAAP measures were used for goal setting, certain compensation related to our annual incentive award program and evaluating our performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts.
 
We also present in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 debt to capital ratios that exclude the effect of a nonrecourse collateralized debt obligation consolidated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," as revised, and non-recourse debt of certain property fund limited partnerships managed by our subsidiary, Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Limited, consolidated in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 04-5, "Determining whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights." Management believes that the debt to capital ratios, excluding this non-recourse debt, better represent our capital structure.  In addition, we provide debt to capital ratio information that reflects an equity credit on our junior subordinated notes issued on May 26, 2006. These junior subordinated notes receive at least a 75% equity credit by the majority of the rating agencies.
 
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
        
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
 
MINNEAPOLIS  January 28, 2009 The broad dislocation in financial markets in the fourth quarter of 2008 impacted Ameriprise Financial (NYSE:AMP) results. In the fourth quarter of 2008:
 
The S&P 500 Index declined 23 percent,
                 
Credit spreads widened, as reflected in the 114 basis point increase in the Barclays U.S. Corporate Investment Grade Index and the 642 basis point increase in the Barclays High Yield Index,
                 
Short-term interest rates declined dramatically as the Fed Funds rate was reduced to 0-25 basis points, reflecting the severity of the economic environment,
                 
Volatility reached historic levels, and
                 
Investors increased cash positions, further eroding liquidity in the markets.
                 
 
Management took the following actions in response to the accelerated market deterioration in the fourth quarter and expectations of continued market dislocation in 2009:
 
Increased the discount rate, expected loss and severity rates used to value residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) and increased the expected default rates for high yield corporate credits, which resulted in the recognition of $420 million in pretax net realized investment losses, primarily from other than temporary impairments.
                 
Lowered future variable annuity and variable universal life profit expectations based on continued depreciation in contract values and historical equity market return patterns, which resulted in a $252 million pretax, non-cash charge in deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and deferred sales inducement costs (DSIC).
                 
Planned further reductions in 2009 expenses, which resulted in $79 million in pretax integration and restructuring charges.
                 
 
In addition, the company recorded $63 million in expenses for variable annuity death and income benefits, as the decline in equity markets lowered underlying client account values below the guarantee level. The company also had $25 million in pretax expenses related to hedged variable annuity living benefits.
 
Management believes it has taken prudent actions in light of the current economic environment and recent trends.
 
 
As a result of market conditions and management actions, the company reported a $369 million net loss, or ($1.69) per share, in the fourth quarter of 2008. This compares to $255 million of net income, or $1.08 per share, in the prior-year period. Excluding these impacts, the company reported $176 million in core operating earnings, or $0.80 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2008. This compares to $262 million in core operating earnings, or $1.11 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2007. The decline in core operating earnings was primarily due to the impact of market depreciation on fee revenues and a shift in client behavior away from traditional activity, partially offset by expense reductions.
 
The company maintains strong balance sheet fundamentals, including a high-quality, diversified asset portfolio, excess capital and $6.2 billion in cash and cash equivalents. During 2008, the company deployed $0.8 billion in excess capital for acquisitions and $0.6 billion in share repurchases, ending the year with approximately $0.7 billion in excess capital, even after charges related to the extraordinary market dislocation. In addition, the company's primary insurance subsidiary, RiverSource Life Insurance Company, ended 2008 with an estimated risk-based capital ratio in excess of 450 percent.
 
For the year, the company reported a net loss of $38 million, compared to net income of $814 million in 2007. Net loss per share was $0.17, down from net income per share of $3.39 in the prior year period. Excluding extraordinary market impacts and separation costs in 2007, core operating earnings for 2008 were $886 million, down 6 percent from the prior year. Core earnings per share were $3.94, up 1 percent from $3.91 per share in 2007.
 
"The deteriorating market and economic conditions in the fourth quarter had a significant impact on our results," said Jim Cracchiolo, chairman and chief executive officer. "In response, we took prudent action to ensure the company is well positioned for the current environment. We continue to maintain strong liquidity and excess capital, even after making important all-cash acquisitions and returning capital to shareholders.
 
"Despite the difficult environment, our business is sound and we remain focused on executing our strategy. Our strong foundation puts us in a good position to manage the current environment and achieve our growth prospects as conditions improve."
 
Fourth Quarter 2008 Summary
 
Management believes the exclusion of after-tax impacts due to the extraordinary dislocation in financial markets in the third and fourth quarters of 2008, and exclusion of after-tax separation costs and after-tax realized investment gains in 2007 best reflect the underlying performance of the business. For the non-GAAP presentation of after-tax amounts throughout this news release, the tax effect is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35 percent.
 
 
 
 
The following after-tax items were excluded from core operating earnings in 2008:
 
$273 million in net realized investment losses consisting of:
                 
$187 million in RMBS from an increase in the average discount rate of approximately 600 basis points in the methodology used to value impaired RMBS, as well as an increase in associated default and severity assumptions used to project collateral losses.
                 
$78 million in corporate credit other than temporary impairments and increased reserves, primarily for bank loans.
                 
$8 million in other investments.
                 
 
$51 million in previously announced integration and restructuring charges.
                 
The company expects the $39 million after-tax restructuring charge to generate over $80 million pretax in expense savings in 2009, with an annual run-rate savings of over $130 million pretax.
                 
 
The remaining $12 million after-tax amount represents the integration costs associated with the acquisitions. This amount is lower than originally stated primarily due to the favorable outcome of lease termination negotiations.
                 
 
$164 million in increased amortization of DAC and DSIC from lower period-ending account values and the use of historical equity market return assumptions for future periods, consisting of:
                 
$52 million from lower period-end account values.
                 
$112 million from unlocking future return assumptions based on historical equity market return patterns.
                 
 
$57 million from increased variable annuity benefits, consisting of:
                 
$41 million primarily from variable annuity death benefit expenses.
                 
$16 million of expenses from:
                 
$27 million after-tax benefit from variable annuity hedging related to the impact of credit spreads widening on the SFAS 157 valuation liability, partially offset by basis risk and underlying hedge ineffectiveness.
                 
$43 million after-tax expense from increased amortization of DAC and DSIC from lowering future credit spread assumptions.
                 
 
Core operating earnings for the fourth quarter of 2008 were impacted by lower asset-based fees driven by equity market declines, lower net investment income as a result of historically low interest rates and client behavioral changes. The company estimates these impacts as follows:
 
$95 million after-tax in reduced fees as the average value of the S&P 500 Index in the quarter was down 38 percent from the average in the prior-year quarter.
                 
$40 million after-tax in reduced net investment income due to historically low short-term interest rates and the company's decision to maintain a large liquidity pool.
                 
 
In addition, core operating earnings in the fourth quarter of 2008 included a $36 million pretax gain, or $23 million after-tax, from the sale of certain operating assets in asset management as part of ongoing re-engineering efforts, and a $19 million pretax gain, or $12 million after-tax, from repurchasing certain junior subordinated notes.
 
Excluded from 2007 core operating earnings were $12 million in after-tax realized net investment gains and $19 million after-tax in separation costs.
 
Fourth quarter 2007 core operating earnings included $44 million after-tax in revenues from unwinding a variable interest entity and $16 million after-tax in additional proceeds from the sale of the company's defined contribution recordkeeping business.
The company has initiated an interim goodwill impairment analysis that it expects to complete in February 2009. If the company determines any portion of goodwill is impaired, it could recognize a material non-cash charge that would negatively impact GAAP earnings and earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2008. This non-cash charge would not impact non-GAAP financial information presented in this news release, including excess capital and RiverSource Life Insurance Company's estimated risk based capital ratio.
 
Liquidity and Balance Sheet
 
Management's long-standing emphasis on risk-return decision making and prudent risk management has positioned the company well.
 
As of December 31, 2008, the company had strong balance sheet fundamentals:
 
Substantial liquidity
 
Cash and cash equivalents were $6.2 billion, an increase from $4.0 billion at September 30, 2008, with $0.7 billion at the holding company level.
                 
The company has no debt maturities until November 15, 2010, maintains backup lines of credit at parent, subsidiary and mutual fund levels, and has no reliance on commercial paper, bank lines or other short-term institutional funding for liquidity.
                 
 
Conservative capital management
 
The company maintained approximately $0.7 billion in excess capital.
                 
RiverSource Life Insurance Company's estimated risk-based capital ratio was in excess of 450 percent.
                 
The company will continue to utilize enterprise risk management capabilities and product hedging to anticipate and mitigate risk. The variable annuity hedging program was 95 percent effective in 2008, one of the most volatile periods on record.
                 
 
High quality investment portfolio
 
The company's $22.9 billion available-for-sale portfolio is both well-diversified and high-quality.
                 
The $420 million in net realized losses in the quarter, primarily from other than temporary impairments represented 1.2 percent of the investment portfolio and consisted of:
                 
$287 million in realized losses from RMBS, primarily related to Alt-A mortgages. This loss was driven by increased historical and forecast defaults, a material increase in severity estimates above historical levels, and an approximately 600 basis point increase in the discount rate used to value the cash flows of these securities.
                 
$120 million in realized losses from corporate credits, including reserve increases primarily for bank loans. Further impacted by deterioration in the U.S. economy, these credits were mainly in the financial services and gaming sectors.
                 
$13 million in other securities.
                 
The company intends to hold the securities until maturity. As such, management believes it will likely recover a significant percentage of these impairments.
                 
Net unrealized losses were approximately $1.8 billion, or $1.2 billion after-tax, which represents 17 percent of shareholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income.
                 
Approximately 5 percent of the portfolio is rated below investment grade.
                 
The company's $2.9 billion commercial mortgage loan portfolio had an average loan-to-value ratio of 53 percent and a debt service coverage ratio of over 1.8 times, and continued to perform well.
                 
 
Conservative capital ratios
 
The debt-to-capital ratio was 24.7 percent.
                 
The debt-to-capital ratio excluding non-recourse debt and with 75 percent equity credit for hybrid securities was 19.8 percent.
                 
 
Additional detail on the company's investment portfolio has been posted to its investor relations website at ir.ameriprise.com.
 
Fourth Quarter 2008 Highlights
 
The company's client base remained stable, with continued strong retention of 94 percent.
                 
 
Branded financial planning net cash sales increased 6 percent to $56 million in the quarter.
                 
 
Total financial advisors increased 6 percent to 12,486, reflecting the completion of the H&R Block Financial Advisors and Brecek & Young acquisitions, as well as improved employee advisor retention.
                 
 
Owned, managed and administered assets decreased 22 percent year-over-year to $372 billion as of December 31, 2008, reflecting the 38 percent decline in the S&P 500 Index over the same time period, partially offset by the addition of $37 billion in assets from the completion of the company's acquisitions during the quarter. Net inflows in fixed annuities, variable annuities and certificates, were more than offset by net outflows in asset management and wrap products. The net inflows in fixed annuities in the fourth quarter of 2008 represented the first quarter of fixed annuity net inflows since the third quarter of 2003.
                 
 
Life insurance in-force grew to $192 billion, up 3 percent from the prior-year period.
                 
 
Ameriprise Auto & Home premiums increased 7 percent from the prior-year quarter with a 6 percent increase in policy counts.
                 
 
The company announced restructuring and integration charges, which are expected to reduce general and administrative expenses by over $80 million in 2009 with annual run-rate savings of over $130 million.
                 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2008 Consolidated Results
 
The company reported a net loss of $369 million for the fourth quarter of 2008. Excluding $545 million of after-tax impacts from extraordinary market dislocation and management actions, core operating earnings declined 33 percent to $176 million, primarily from market-related impacts on fee revenue and client behavior.
 
Total net revenues declined 40 percent, or $910 million, to $1.4 billion, primarily due to declines in net investment income driven by market deterioration in the quarter. Excluding these impacts, core net revenues were $1.8 billion, down 21 percent from the prior-year period, primarily due to equity market depreciation, lower client activity and lower yield on the company's investment portfolio.
 
Management and financial advice fees declined 35 percent, or $323 million, to $607 million, primarily due to equity market depreciation of 39 percent year over year.
 
 
Distribution fees declined 20 percent, or $81 million, to $334 million, primarily driven by lower client activity, as well as lower asset levels. Clients' preference for cash and deposit products in the quarter resulted in slowing sales and flows for other products, which generate distribution fees.
 
The net investment loss of $28 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 compares to $475 million in net investment income in the prior-year period. The decline was driven by $420 million in net realized investment losses, primarily from other than temporary impairments. Excluding investment losses and gains, net investment income declined 14 percent to $392 million, compared to the prior-year quarter, primarily due to the lower interest rate environment on fixed accounts and the company's decision to increase its liquidity pool. The fourth quarter of 2007 included $18 million of net investment gains.
 
Premiums increased 4 percent, or $11 million, to $282 million, primarily due to growth in Auto & Home premiums.
 
Other revenues declined 11 percent, or $26 million, to $202 million, which included $36 million in proceeds from the sale of certain operating assets in the fourth quarter of 2008. The prior-year period included $68 million in revenues from unwinding a variable interest entity and $25 million in additional proceeds from the sale of the company's defined contribution recordkeeping business. Excluding these items, the increase was primarily due to recognizing a gain on the retirement of certain junior subordinated notes.
 
Banking and deposit interest expense decreased 20 percent, or $12 million, to $47 million, primarily due to lower crediting rates on certificates, partially offset by higher certificate balances.
 
Expenses
 
Consolidated expenses increased 4 percent, or $69 million, to $2.0 billion. Core expenses declined 17 percent, or $322 million, reflecting lower business volumes and continued strong expense controls. Core expenses also included $61 million in operating expenses from acquisitions that closed in the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
Distribution expenses declined 21 percent, or $110 million, to $417 million, primarily due to decreases in advisor compensation reflecting lower year-over-year cash sales and compensation based on asset levels, which were impacted by market declines.
 
Interest credited to fixed accounts remained relatively flat at $203 million, reflecting lower average balances offset by slightly higher crediting rates.
 
Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased 20 percent, or $55 million, to $331 million. Core benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased 11 percent to $306 million, primarily due to reserve increases in 2008 for weather-related losses in Auto and Home as well as decreases in fourth quarter 2007 related to errors and omissions reserve release and the impact of the application of SOP 03-1 on variable annuity living benefit reserves. The $25 million in market driven impacts excluded from core include increases in DSIC amortization and variable annuity guaranteed minimum death and income benefits, partially offset by an $82 million expense decrease from variable annuity living benefits, net of hedging. The mark-to-market of the variable annuity guaranteed living benefit riders is comprised of a $1.6 billion increase in hedge assets offset by a $1.5 billion increase in reserves.
 
Amortization of DAC more than doubled to $395 million from $164 million. When excluding $315 million of amortization expense related to market conditions and assumptions, core amortization of
 
DAC declined 51 percent to $80 million. This decline is primarily due to lower variable annuity fee revenue in the fourth quarter of 2008 and unfavorable impacts from market conditions, as well as the application of SOP 03-1 to variable annuity living benefit riders in the prior-year quarter.
 
General and administrative expense declined 12 percent, or $81 million, to $617 million. Excluding $79 million in restructuring and integration charges, general and administrative expense declined 23 percent, or $160 million, to $538 million. The decline reflected cost controls and lower compensation-related expenses primarily from lower Threadneedle hedge fund performance fees, partially offset by higher expenses from recent acquisitions.
 
Taxes
 
The effective tax rate on net income (loss) was 42.4 percent for the quarter, up from 24.4 percent in the prior-year period. The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily impacted by generating a pretax loss in the current quarter compared to pretax income in the prior-year period.
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2008 Segment Financial Highlights
 
Segment results reflect the impact of the extraordinary dislocation in financial markets in the fourth quarter of 2008 and management's efforts to control expenses while investing for long-term growth. Segment results do not include income taxes.
 
reported a pretax loss of $187 million for the quarter, primarily driven by $194 million in net realized losses in the certificates and banking investment portfolios. Excluding impacts from the accelerated market dislocation in the quarter, pretax segment core operating earnings were $19 million, a 44 percent decline from $34 million in the prior-year period,
Advice & Wealth Management
 
primarily due to market-driven asset declines and reduced client activity. Expenses remained well controlled, reflecting lower compensation related expenses and management's initiatives to reduce expenses. The company completed its acquisitions of H&R Block Financial Advisors and Brecek & Young during the quarter, which is reflected in the 15 percent year-over-year increase in employee advisors and 19 percent year-over-year increase in advisors at Securities America.
 
reported pretax income of $2 million for the quarter compared to pretax income of $108 million in the prior-year period. The decline was driven by market depreciation on assets, negative foreign currency translation and net outflows. RiverSource net outflows in the quarter were primarily due to reduced mutual fund sales in the Ameriprise channel as client activity slowed. RiverSource redemption rates continued to remain stable. Threadneedle experienced slowing sales as well as planned redemptions of lower-margin institutional assets, primarily from Zurich, partially offset by net inflows in alternative investments. Threadneedle investment performance remained strong. Segment expenses remained well controlled. The company completed its acquisition of J. & W. Seligman & Co. during the fourth quarter, which contributed $13 billion to managed assets and enhanced its technology, growth, value and alternative investment capabilities and expanded distribution. In addition, fourth quarter 2008 segment results included a gain from the sale of certain operating assets as part of the company's reengineering efforts.
Asset Management
 
reported a pretax loss of $372 million for the quarter, driven by $169 million in net realized losses, primarily from other than temporary impairments, $203 million in increased amortization of DAC and a net $88 million increase in expenses for variable annuity guarantees. Excluding these market-driven losses, segment core operating earnings were $88 million, a 22 percent decline from $113 million in core operating earnings in the prior-year period due to lower spreads on fixed balances and lower margins on the variable balances due to market declines. Clients' decreased risk tolerances and preference to hold cash reduced variable annuity sales and drove net inflows in fixed annuities.
Annuities
 
reported pretax income of $33 million compared to $154 million in the prior-year period. Excluding net realized losses of $44 million and $49 million in increased amortization of DAC, segment core operating earnings were $126 million, a 17 percent decline from $151 million in core operating earnings in the prior-year period. The decline was primarily driven by $19 million of revenue in 2007 from unwinding a variable interest entity and reserve increases in 2008 for weather-related losses in Auto and Home.
Protection
 
reported a pretax loss of $117 million including $62 million in restructuring and other charges and $14 million in net realized losses. Excluding these actions, segment core operating loss was $41 million, a 29 percent improvement from a $58 million core operating loss in the prior-year period, primarily due to a gain from repurchasing certain of the company's junior subordinated notes as well as expense controls.
Corporate & Other
 
 
Contacts
 
 
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a diversified financial services company serving the comprehensive financial planning needs of the mass affluent and affluent. For more information, visit ameriprise.com.
 
RiverSource mutual funds are distributed by RiverSource Distributors, Inc. and Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Members FINRA and managed by RiverSource Investments, LLC. For complete mutual fund ranking data and other important disclosures please refer to Exhibit A "RiverSource Mutual Fund Performance and Lipper Ranking" in the Fourth Quarter 2008 Statistical Supplement available at ir.ameriprise.com.
 
The Threadneedle group of companies constitutes the Ameriprise Financial international investment platform. The group consists of wholly owned subsidiaries of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and provides services independent from Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc., including Ameriprise Financial Services' broker-dealer business.
 
Ameriprise Certificates are issued by Ameriprise Certificate Company and distributed by Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA.
 
Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. offers financial planning services, investments, insurance and annuity products. RiverSource insurance and annuity products are issued by RiverSource Life Insurance Company, and in New York only by RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York, Albany, New York. Only RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York is authorized to sell insurance and annuity products in the state of New York. These companies are all part of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. CA License #0684538.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements. The company has made various forward-looking statements in this report. Examples of such forward-looking statements include:
 
 
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "aim," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
 
Such factors include, but are not limited to:
 
 
Management cautions you that the foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. There may also be other risks that management is unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Management undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements. The foregoing list of factors should be read in conjunction with the "Risk Factors" discussion included as Part 1, Item 1A of and elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for year-end 2007, the "Risk Factors" discussion included as Part 2, Item 1A of and elsewhere in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and the "Forward-Looking Statements" discussion in our Form 8-K dated January 20, 2009, and at.
ir.ameriprise.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=191716&p=irol-forwardLookingStatement
 
The financial results discussed in this news release represent past performance only, which may not be used to predict or project future results. The financial results and values presented in this news release and the below-referenced Statistical Supplement are based upon asset valuations that represent estimates as of the date of this news release and may be revised in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. For information about Ameriprise Financial entities, please refer to the Fourth Quarter 2008 Statistical Supplement available at ir.ameriprise.com and the tables that follow in this news release.
 
TABLES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The amounts denoted as 2008 market dislocation impacts include amounts that were not excluded from core earnings in prior quarters.
The following full-year tables are presented to identify the impact of the market dislocation that occurred in 2008. Management believes the exclusion of after-tax impacts due to the extraordinary dislocation in financial markets in the third and fourth quarter of 2008 and exclusion of after-tax separation costs and after-tax realized investment gains in 2007 best reflect the underlying performance of the business.
 
 
 
 
B/(W) means the percent 2008 core operating earnings are either better than or worse than 2007 core operating earnings.
*
                
See following page for reconciliation of non-GAAP numbers.
(1)
            
 
 
 
Includes write-off of distribution revenue receivable from unaffiliated money market funds.
(1)
            
Includes net realized gains and losses on Available-for-Sale securities, an increase in reserves on bank loans, the fair value adjustment on low income housing investments and realized losses related to other securities.
(2)
            
Includes an increase in variable annuity guaranteed minimum death and income benefits due to lower equity market valuations, an increase in DSIC amortization related to the market and the impact of variable annuity living benefit riders, net of hedges .
(3)
            
Includes an increase in DAC amortization related to the market and the DAC effect of variable annuity living benefit riders, net of hedges.
(4)
            
Includes integration and restructuring charges and support costs related to RiverSource 2a-7 money market funds and unaffiliated money market funds.
(5)
            
Includes realized net investment gains.
(6)
            
Reflects tax at the statutory rate of 35%.
(7)
            
 
 
(1)
            
The company's junior subordinated notes receive an equity credit of at least 75% by the majority of the rating agencies.
 
 2009 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. All rights reserved.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
 
 
 For Q3 and Q4 2008 diluted shares used in this calculation represent basic shares due to the net loss. Using actual diluted shares would result in anti-dilution.
(2)
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
Year-to-date is sum of current year prior quarters.
(1)
 
 
 During the 4th Qtr of 2008, $24.1 B of assets were acquired due to the acquisition of HR Block.
(2)
 
 
 
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
Equal Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Counts the number of Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total number of Class A funds.  Asset size is not a factor.
 
Asset Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Sums the assets of the Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total Class A assets.  Funds with more assets will receive a greater share of the total percentage above or below median.
 
Aggregated data shows only actively-managed mutual funds by affiliated investment managers. 
 
Aggregated data does not include mutual funds sub-advised by advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc., RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund, RiverSource Cash Management Fund and RiverSource Tax Free Money Market Fund.
 
Aggregated equity rankings include RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series and other balanced and asset allocation funds that invest in both equities and fixed income.
 
RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series funds are funds of mutual funds that may invest in third-party sub-advised funds.
 
Aggregated data only includes mutual funds in existence as of current quarter end.  Refer to Exhibit A for RiverSource individual mutual fund performance rankings and other important disclosures.
 
Exhibit A includes RiverSource performance rankings for funds sub-advised by non-affiliated advisors for general reference although not included in the summary above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(1)
 
#  Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the Company) follows accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP).  This report includes information on both a U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP basis.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in this report exclude items that are a direct result of our separation from American Express Company, consisting of non-recurring separation costs.  These non-GAAP financial measures, which our management views as important indicators of financial performance, include:
 
Pretax income (loss) margin;
Total debt excluding non-recourse debt;
Total debt excluding non-recourse debt and 75% equity credit;
Total capital excluding non-recourse debt;
Debt to total capital excluding non-recourse debt;
Debt to total capital excluding non-recourse debt and 75% equity credit;
Pretax operating earnings;
Pretax operating earnings margin; and
Total expenses before separation costs for the Financial Summary and Corporate & Other segment.
 
Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures excluding these specific income statement impacts best reflects the underlying performance of the Company's ongoing operations and facilitates a more meaningful trend analysis.  These non-GAAP measures are also used for goal setting, certain compensation related to the Company's annual incentive award program and evaluating the Company's performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts.
 
The Company presents debt to capital ratios excluding non-recourse debt of structured entities consolidated in accordance with FIN 46(R),  EITF 04-5 and other accounting literature and with a 75% equity credit for the Company's junior subordinated debt.  Management believes that the debt to capital ratios excluding this non-recourse debt better represent the Company's capital structure.
 
Reclassification
 
Certain prior period information has been restated to conform to current period presentation.
 
- This segment provides financial advice and full service brokerage and banking services, primarily to retail clients, through our financial advisors. Our advisors distribute a diversified selection of both proprietary and non-proprietary products to help clients meet their financial needs. A significant portion of revenues in this segment are fee-based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets from primarily certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for distributing non-proprietary products and earns intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for distributing our proprietary products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
Advice & Wealth Management
 
This segment provides investment advice and investment products to retail and institutional clients. Threadneedle Investments predominantly provides international investment products and services, and RiverSource Investments predominantly provides domestic products and services. Domestic retail products are primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and also through third-party distribution. International retail products are primarily distributed through third parties. Products accessed by consumers on a retail basis include mutual funds, variable product funds underlying insurance and annuity separate accounts, separately managed accounts and collective funds. Asset Management products are also distributed directly to institutions through an institutional sales force. Institutional asset management products include traditional asset classes separate accounts, collateralized loan obligations, hedge funds and property funds. Revenues in this segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. This segment earns intersegment revenue for investment management services. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management, Annuities and Protection segments.
Asset Management -
 
This segment provides RiverSource Life variable and fixed annuity products to our retail clients primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and to the retail clients of unaffiliated distributors through third-party distribution. Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on underlying account balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. Revenues for our fixed annuity products are primarily earned as net investment income on underlying account balances, with profitability significantly impacted by the spread between net investment income earned and interest credited on the fixed account balances. We also earn net investment income on owned assets supporting annuity benefits reserves and capital supporting the business. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable annuity contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
Annuities -
 
- This segment offers a variety of protection products to address the identified protection and risk management needs of our retail clients including life, disability income and property-casualty insurance. Life and disability income products are primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment. Our property-casualty products are sold direct, primarily through affinity relationships. The primary sources of revenues for this segment are premiums, fees, and charges that we receive to assume insurance-related risk. We earn net investment income on owned assets supporting insurance reserves and capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of assets supporting variable universal life separate account balances. This segment earns intersegment revenues from fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
Protection
 
This segment consists of net investment income on corporate level assets, including unallocated equity and other revenues from various investments as well as unallocated corporate expenses. This segment also includes non-recurring costs associated with our separation from American Express, which ended in 2007.
Corporate & Other -
 
- Administered assets include assets for which we provide administrative services such as client assets invested in other companies' products that we offer outside of our wrap accounts. These assets include those held in clients' brokerage accounts. We do not exercise management discretion over these assets and do not earn a management fee. These assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Administered Assets
 
- Assets reported by the Company that include Hedge Funds and Collateralized Debt Obligations ("CDO").
Alternative Assets
 
- The internal allocation of consolidated shareholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), to our operating segments for purposes of measuring segment return on allocated equity.  Allocated equity does not represent insurance company risk-based capital or other regulatory capital requirements applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries. For the Corporate & Other segment, allocated equity also includes any excess capital.
Allocated Equity
 
Personal auto and home protection products marketed directly to customers through marketing affiliates such as Costco Wholesale Corporation, Delta Loyalty Management Services, Inc. and Ford Motor Credit Company. We sell these products through our auto and home subsidiary, IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company (doing business as Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance).
Auto & Home Insurance -
 
- Total shareholders' equity divided by the number of basic common shares outstanding at period-end.
Book Value per Share
 
- Cash sales are the dollar value volume indicator that captures gross new cash inflows which generate product revenue streams to our company. This includes primarily "client initiated" activity that results in an incremental increase in assets (owned, managed or administered), or premiums inforce (but doesn't need to result in time of sale revenue), or activity that doesn't increase assets or premiums inforce, but generates "fee revenue".
Cash Sales
 
- A ratio comprised of total debt divided by total capital. We also present debt to capital ratios excluding non-recourse debt of structured entities consolidated in accordance with FIN 46(R),  EITF 04-5 and other accounting literature and with a 75% equity credit for our junior subordinated debt.
Debt to Total Capital Ratio
 
- Deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") represent the costs of acquiring new protection, annuity and certain mutual fund business, principally direct sales commissions and other distribution and underwriting costs that have been deferred on the sale of annuity, life, disability income and long term care insurance and, to a lesser extent, deferred marketing and promotion expenses on auto and home insurance and deferred distribution costs on certain mutual fund products. These costs are deferred to the extent they are recoverable from future profits.
Deferred Acquisition Costs and Amortization
 
- EITF 04-5 provides guidance on whether a partnership should be consolidated by one of its partners. Our adoption of EITF 04-5 effective January 1, 2006 resulted in the consolidation of certain limited partnerships for which we are the general partner. As a result, we consolidate certain property fund limited partnerships managed by Threadneedle Investments and certain hedge funds managed by RiverSource Investments.
Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 04-5, "Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights" ("EITF 04-5")
 
- The period-end number of current clients who have received a financial plan, or have entered into an agreement to receive and have paid for a financial plan, divided by the number of active retail client groups, serviced by branded financial advisors.
Financial Planning Penetration
 
The total amount of all life insurance death benefits currently insured by our company.
Life Insurance in-Force -
 
- Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the RiverSource family of mutual funds, assets of institutional clients and client assets held in wrap accounts (retail accounts for which we receive an advice fee based on assets held in the account).  Managed external client assets also include assets managed by sub-advisors selected by us. Managed external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Managed External Client Assets
 
- Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we provide investment management services and recognize management fees, such as the assets of the general account and RiverSource Variable Product funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries.
Managed Owned Assets
 
Life insurance inforce less policyholder reserves net of re-insurance.
Net Amount at Risk -
 
Sales less redemptions and miscellaneous flows which may include reinvested dividends.
Net Flows -
 
A ratio representing net income as a percentage of total net revenues.
Net Income Margin -
 
- Owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we do not provide investment management services and do not recognize management fees, such as investments in non-proprietary funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries, as well as restricted and segregated cash and receivables.
Owned Assets
 
Income (loss) before income tax provision (benefit).
Pretax Income (Loss) -
 
A ratio representing pretax income as a percentage of total net revenues.
Pretax Income Margin -
 
Pretax income plus or minus net realized gains (losses).
Pretax Operating Earnings -
 
A ratio representing pretax operating earnings as a percentage of total net revenues.
Pretax Operating Earnings Margin -
 
Calculated using pretax income for the last twelve months and the average allocated equity as of the last day of the trailing four quarters and current quarter end.
Pretax Return on Allocated Equity -
 
- Securities America Financial Corporation ("SAFC") is a corporation whose sole function is to hold the stock of its operating subsidiaries, Securities America, Inc. ("SAI") and Securities America Advisors, Inc. ("SAA"). SAI is a registered broker-dealer and an insurance agency. SAA is an SEC registered investment advisor.
Securities America
 
- Represent assets and liabilities that are maintained and established primarily for the purpose of funding variable annuity and insurance products. The assets of the separate account are only available to fund the liabilities of the variable entity contract holders and others with contracts requiring premiums or other deposits to the separate account. Clients elect to invest premiums in stock, bond and/or money market funds depending on their risk tolerance. All investment performance, net of fees, is passed through to the client.
Separate Accounts
 
- Separation costs include expenses related to our separation from American Express Company. These costs are primarily associated with establishing the Ameriprise Financial brand, separating and reestablishing our technology platforms and advisor and employee retention programs.  These costs ended in 2007.
Separation Costs
 
- SOP 05-1 provides guidance on accounting for DAC associated with any insurance or annuity contract that is significantly modified or internally replaced with another contract.
SOP 05-1 ("Statement of Position"), "Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection With Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts"
- Distribution of RiverSource products, which include a variety of equity and fixed income mutual funds, annuities and insurance products, to retail clients through unaffiliated financial institutions and broker-dealers.  The Third Party channel is separate from the Branded Advisor, Threadneedle, SAFC, and Institutional sales channels.
Third Party Distribution
 
Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Limited is a holding company for the London-based Threadneedle companies, which provide investment management products and services.
Threadneedle -
 
Total shareholders' equity plus total debt. Total capital is also presented excluding non-recourse debt.
Total Capital -
 
- Wrap accounts enable our clients to purchase other securities such as mutual funds in connection with investment advisory fee-based "wrap account" programs or services. We offer clients the opportunity to select products that include proprietary and non-proprietary funds. We currently offer both discretionary and non-discretionary investment advisory wrap accounts. In a discretionary wrap account, an unaffiliated investment advisor or our investment management subsidiary, RiverSource Investments, LLC chooses the underlying investments in the portfolio on behalf of the client. In a non-discretionary wrap account, the client chooses the underlying investments in the portfolio based, to the extent the client elects, in part or whole on the recommendations of their financial advisor. Investors in our wrap accounts generally pay an asset-based fee based on the assets held in their wrap accounts. These investors also pay any related fees or costs included in the underlying securities held in that account, such as underlying mutual fund operating expenses and Rule 12b-1 fees.
Wrap Accounts
 
 
 
Equity Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of December 31, 2008
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
 
Equity Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of December 31, 2008
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
Equity Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of December 31, 2008
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
^   Since fund inception returns and rankings are not available.  Actual fund inception date pre-dates data in Lipper database.
  Since inception returns for periods less than one year in length are cumulative.
(1)
  Mutual funds subadvised by advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
(2)
  RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund data is for D shares.
(3)
 
Fixed Income Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of December 31, 2008
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
  Since inception returns for periods less than one year in length are cumulative.
(1)
 
 
 
Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of December 31, 2008
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
Important Disclosures
 
Rankings based on annualized total returns, excluding sales charges.  Net asset value (NAV) returns for all periods would have been lower if the applicable sales charges were included.
 
Please note the following about the "Ranking since" Lipper Rankings: In order to obtain a more accurate "since inception" Lipper Ranking for funds with an inception prior to 2000, the  Thursday or month-end date following the actual inception date was used, rather than the actual inception date.  When researching since inception rankings, please use the "Ranking Since" date.
 
Please note the following about the "Annualized Returns @ POP":  The POP return is calculated assuming a one-time purchase of the Fund at the maximum sales charge listed in the exhibit.  RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund has no sales loads, however, a redemption fee of 0.50% is charged on shares redeemed within 180 days of purchase.
 
Net assets per fund include all share classes.  Assets for RiverSource Portfolio Builder Funds, RiverSource Income Builder Funds and RiverSource Retirement Plus Funds are invested in other  RiverSource Funds and therefore would be double counted if assets are summed to reach a total.
 
Fee waivers were in place for each subadvised fund shown and the return would have been lower for each Fund had fee waivers not been in place.
 
An investment in money market funds is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. Although these funds seek to preserve the value of your investment at $1.00 per share, it is possible to lose money by investing in these funds.
 
You should consider the investment objectives, risks, and charges and expenses of mutual funds carefully before investing. For a free prospectus, which contains this and other important information about the funds, call (800) 297-3863, TTY: (800) 846-4852.  Read the prospectus carefully before investing.
 
The RiverSource Global Technology Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives.
 
Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies often involve greater risk and potential volatility than investments in larger, more established companies.
 
The RiverSource Precious Metals Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives.
 
Investments in Real Estate Securities may be subject to specific risks, such as risks to general and local economic conditions, and risks to individual properties.
 
International investing involves increased risk and volatility, not typically associated with domestic investing, due to changes in currency exchange rates, foreign government regulations, differences in auditing and accounting standards, potential political and economic instability, limited liquidity and volatile prices. The risks of international investing are particularly significant in emerging markets.
 
There are risks associated with an investment in a bond fund, including the impact of interest rates, credit and inflation. These and other risk considerations are discussed in the fund's prospectus. In general, bond prices rise when interest rates fall and vice versa. This effect is usually more pronounced for longer-term securities. Non-investment grade securities, commonly called "high-yield" or "junk" bonds,  generally have more volatile prices and carry more risk to principle and income than investment grade securities.
 
High yield funds invest in lower-rated bonds, which generally have more volatile prices and carry more risk to principal and income than investment grade securities.
 
Principal risks associated with the RiverSource Inflation Protected Securities Fund include style risk, interest rate risk, market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and sector/concentration risk. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS) are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. The U.S. government guarantee applies only to the underlying TIPS securities, and not the Fund itself.
 
Income from tax-exempt funds may be subject to state and local taxes, and a portion of income may be subject to the federal and/or state alternative minimum tax for certain investors. Federal income tax  rules will apply to any capital gains distribution.
Important Disclosures - continued
 
Shares of the RiverSource Short Duration U.S. Government Fund and the RiverSource U.S. Government Mortgage Fund are not insured or guaranteed by the U.S. government.
 
The Floating Rate Fund invests primarily in floating rate loans, the market value of which may fluctuate, sometimes rapidly and unpredictably.  The principal risks of investing in the fund include liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, counterparty risk, highly leveraged transactions risk, derivatives risk, confidential information access risk, and impairment of collateral risk. Generally, when interest rates rise, the prices of fixed income securities fall, however, securities or loans with floating interest rates can be less sensitive to interest rate changes, but they may decline in value if their interest rates do not rise as  much as interest rates in general.  Limited liquidity may affect the ability of the fund to purchase or sell floating rate loans and may have a negative impact on fund performance.  The floating rate loans and  securities in which the fund invests generally are lower-rated (non-investment grade) and are more likely to experience a default, which results in more volatile prices and more risk to principal and income than investment grade loans or securities. See the Fund's prospectus for information on these and other risks associated with the Fund.
 
The RiverSource Portfolio Builder Funds, RiverSource Income Builder Funds and RiverSource Retirement Plus Funds are "funds of funds" comprised of holdings in several different RiverSource funds, which may include small cap, mid cap, large cap, money market, international, bond and/or other sector funds. Specific risk considerations are discussed in each fund's prospectus. Each of the underlying funds in which the portfolio invests has its own investment risks, and those risks can affect the value of each portfolio's shares and investments. See each fund's prospectus for specific risks that may be associated with the underlying funds.
 
Fund returns for Seligman Capital Fund prior to September 26, 2002 do not reflect the increased management fee effective on such date. This fee, if reflected, would reduce the performance data quoted for the Fund for such periods. Seligman is waiving all or part of its investment management fee and/or reimbursing Fund expenses for Seligman California High-Yield Municipal Fund, Seligman Florida Municipal Fund, Seligman Frontier Fund, Seligman Core Fixed Income Fund, Seligman LaSalle Global Real Estate Fund, Seligman LaSalle Monthly Dividend Real Estate Fund, Seligman Emerging Markets Fund, Seligman Global Growth Fund, Seligman International Growth Fund, Seligman TargETFund Core, Seligman TargETFund 2015, Seligman TargETFund 2026, Seligman TargETFund 2035, Seligman TargETFund 2045, Seligman Asset Allocation Aggressive Growth Fund, Seligman Asset Allocation Growth Fund, Seligman Asset Allocation Moderate Growth Fund, Seligman Asset Allocation Balanced Fund. In addition, from time to time, Seligman has reimbursed expenses or waived investment management fees of other Seligman Mutual Funds. Seligman may implement or discontinue voluntary expense reimbursements or fee waivers at any time. Absent such reimbursement/waivers, returns would have been lower.
 
Dividends paid by Seligman LaSalle Monthly Dividend Real Estate Fund generally will be taxable as ordinary income. It is expected that income dividends paid by the Fund generally will not be eligible for the reduction in dividend tax rates set forth in the jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003.
 
The four funds within the Seligman Asset Allocation Series and Seligman TargetHorizon ETF Portfolios SM Invest in the Seligman Mutual Funds (Underlying Seligman Funds) and exchange traded funds (ETFs), respectively, to implement their unique asset allocation strategies. Investments in the underlying Seligman Funds or ETFs involve risk, including the risk of loss of principal. An investor to a Fund within the Seligman Asset Allocation Series or Seligman TargetHorizon ETF Portfolios SM will indirectly bear the operating expenses of the Underlying Seligman Funds or ETFs, as applicable, in which the Fund invests. Thus, the expenses borne by the investor will be higher than it he or she invested directly in the Underlying Seligman Funds or ETFs, and the returns may therefore be lower.
 
The Funds listed have are actively managed and their holdings are subject to change. There can be no assurance that the securities set forth in the links below have remained or will remain in a Fund's portfolio. Information regarding a Fund's portfolio holdings should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell any security or as an indication that any security is suitable for a particular investor. Monthly portfolio holdings information does not represent an entire portfolio and, in the aggregate, may only represent a small portion of a Fund's total holdings. It should not be assumed that any of the securities, transactions or holdings listed in the links below were or will be profitable.
 
"Standard & Poor's," "S&P," "S&P 500," and "Standard & Poor's 500" are trademarks of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. These trademarks and service marks have been licensed for use by RiverSource Investments. The Funds are not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Standard & Poor's or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates (the "Licensors") and the Licensors make no representation regarding the advisability of investing in the Funds.
 
Investment products are not federally or FDIC insured, are not deposits or obligations of, or guaranteed by any financial institution; and involve investment risks including possible loss of principal and fluctuation in value.
 
RiverSource
SM
 mutual funds are distributed by RiverSource Distributors, Inc. and Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc., Members FINRA, and managed by RiverSource Investments, LLC.   These companies are part of Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
 
Brokerage, investment and financial advisory services are made available through Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA and SIPC. Ameriprise Bank, FSB, member FDIC, provides certain deposit and lending products and services for Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Ameriprise Bank, FSB deposit products are FDIC-insured up to $100,000 per customer.
 
RiverSource Distributors, Inc. (Distributor), Member FINRA. Insurance and annuity products are issued by RiverSource Life Insurance Company, and in New York only by RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York, Albany, NY. Only RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York is authorized to sell insurance products in the state of NY.
 
RiverSource Investments employs Threadneedle as a subadvisor. Threadneedle mutual funds are distributed by RiverSource Distributors, Inc. Member FINRA. These companies are part of Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
 
RiverSource Investments, LLC is an SEC-registered investment adviser that offers investment products and services under the names RiverSource Institutional Advisors, RiverSource Alternative Investments, RiverSource Capital Management and RiverSource Insurance Assets.  RiverSource Investments LLC also serves as the Investment Manager for the RiverSource mutual funds.
 
Ameriprise Certificates are issued by Ameriprise Certificate Company and distributed by Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA.
 
Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance issues auto, home and umbrella insurance underwritten by AMEX Assurance Company (AMEX Assurance) or IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company (IDS Property Casualty), DePere, WI.
 
Mortgages and home equity loans are provided by Ameriprise Bank, FSB, an FDIC-insured federal savings bank. Ameriprise Bank, FSB, an Equal Housing Lender, is an Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. company.
 
These companies, including Securities America, Inc., Member FINRA, are all affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net impact of annual review/updating of valuation assumptions, conversion to new valuation system and market performance
(1)
  
 
  In accordance with EITF04-5, reflects consolidation of property fund limited partnerships managed by Threadneedle and hedge fund partnerships managed by RiverSource
(2)
 
  Variable annuity riders hedge impact excluding DAC unlocking, including $3 million loss on derivatives related to Lehman Brothers as disclosed in Securities Losses on page 46
(3)
 
  Income Tax impact of finalizing prior period tax returns
(4)
 
 
 Credit market losses, as detailed in our Q3 2008 earnings release
(1)
 
 Expenses to support $1 Net Asset Value of RiverSource money market funds that held Lehman Brothers commercial paper
(2)
 
 Expenses related to unaffiliated money market funds, including client support and write-offs of related receivables
(3)
 
 
 
       Increased reserves related to legal and regulatory and other contingencies
(1)
 
       Additional proceeds from the 2006 sale of our defined contribution recordkeeping business
(2)
 
       In accordance with EITF 04-5, reflects consolidation of property fund limited partnerships managed by Threadneedle and hedge fund limited partnerships managed by RiverSource
(3)
 
       Additional gains associated with the deconsolidation of a variable interest entity
(4)
 
       Market impact on DAC and DSIC
(5)
 
       Pretax realized net investment gains and (losses)
(6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Prior period balances were restated to remove cash balances where fees were not earned.  See pages 13 and 15.
(1)
 
     Change in calculation to align metric.  See page 11.
(2)


