FILE:AMP/AMP-8K-20090723160552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Conditions.
 
On July 23, 2009, Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2009.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference and furnished herewith. In addition, the Company furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.2, its Statistical Supplement for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009.
 
We follow accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and the financial information furnished as Exhibit 99.2 include information on both a GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted basis.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in these exhibits exclude items that reflect certain after-tax market related impacts and our integration charges. Our non-GAAP financial measures, which our management views as important indicators of financial performance, include the following: core operating earnings; core operating earnings, after-tax; net investment (gains)/losses, after-tax; integration charges, after-tax; DAC and DSIC (benefits)/charges, after-tax; variable annuity guarantee costs, net of DAC and DSIC, after-tax; pretax segment income(loss) margin; pretax return on allocated equity; pretax return on allocated equity for pretax segment income (loss) excluding net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests; pretax income (loss) margin; net income (loss) attributable to Ameriprise Financial margin; pretax operating earnings; and pretax operating earnings margin. Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures excluding these specific income statement impacts best reflects the underlying performance of our 2009 and 2008 operations and facilitates a more meaningful trend analysis. These non-GAAP measures were used for goal setting, certain compensation related to our annual incentive award program and evaluating our performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts.
 
We also present in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 debt to capital ratios that exclude the effect of a nonrecourse collateralized debt obligation consolidated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," as revised, and non-recourse debt of certain property fund limited partnerships managed by our subsidiary, Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Sarl, consolidated in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 04-5, "Determining whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights." Management believes that the debt to capital ratios, excluding this non-recourse debt, better represent our capital structure.  In addition, we provide debt to capital ratio information that reflects an equity credit on our junior subordinated notes issued on May 26, 2006. These junior subordinated notes receive at least a 75% equity credit by the majority of the rating agencies.
 
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
 
MINNEAPOLIS  July 23, 2009 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (NYSE: AMP) today reported net income of $95 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared to $210 million for the second quarter of 2008. Earnings per diluted share for the second quarter of 2009 were $0.41, compared to $0.93 for the second quarter of 2008.
 
Core operating earnings per diluted share were $0.58 for the second quarter of 2009, compared to $1.03 in the second quarter of 2008. Core operating earnings exclude market impacts on amortization of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and variable annuity guarantee costs, acquisition-related integration charges and net realized gains / losses. The company estimates that $0.51 of the year-over-year impact to core operating earnings resulted from the market-driven decline in asset-based fees and the impact of maintaining high liquidity levels.
 
"While the environment continued to impact our results, we're beginning to see signs of improvement, with increased client activity and solid asset flows across our platform," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jim Cracchiolo.
"In addition, we took actions during the quarter to further enhance our strong capital base, which puts us in a position to pursue additional growth opportunities."
 
Net revenues declined 5 percent to $1.9 billion in the second quarter of 2009, compared to $2.0 billion in the second quarter of 2008. Growth in fixed annuities was more than offset by the impact on assets and fees of year-over-year equity market depreciation. Net revenues grew 9 percent sequentially, primarily driven by a 10 percent increase in the average of the S&P 500 Index during the quarter, as well as significantly improved retail net flows.
 
The company is mitigating market-driven revenue declines by implementing expense reductions through re-engineering. The company recognized approximately $110 million in benefits in the second quarter of 2009, up from approximately $60 million in the first quarter, and is on-track to exceed its $350 million full-year 2009 re-engineering savings target.
 
As of June 30, 2009, the company's excess capital position was more than $2 billion. This included $869 million in net equity raised in the second quarter and reflects anticipated year-end regulatory (VACARVM) and rating agency requirements for the variable annuity business. In addition, the company's recent tender offer to purchase $450 million principal amount of its debt maturing in 2010 is planned to be completed using proceeds from two second quarter debt offerings. The company's net unrealized investment loss position declined to $577 million from $1.8 billion at March 31, 2009. The
 
after-tax net unrealized loss represented approximately 4 percent of shareholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income.
 
Second Quarter 2009 Summary
 
Management believes the exclusion of after-tax impacts of realized net investment gains/losses, non-recurring integration costs and market impacts on DAC and variable annuity guarantee costs best reflects the underlying performance of the business. For the non-GAAP presentation of after-tax amounts, the tax effect is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35 percent.
 
 
 
NM Not Meaningful
(1)
    
 For this non-GAAP presentation, after-tax is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35%.
 
The following items are excluded from core operating earnings. Each impact is presented after tax.
 
                 
$4 million benefit, or $0.02 per share, in net realized investment gains, comprising of $30 million in realized investment gains, partially offset by $26 million in other-than-temporary impairments on previously impaired non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities and reserves for commercial mortgage loans.
 
                 
$16 million expense, or $0.07 per share, in integration costs related to recent acquisitions.
 
                 
$29 million benefit, or $0.12 per share, from lower DAC and deferred sales inducement cost (DSIC) amortization due to favorable market conditions in the quarter.
 
                 
$55 million expense, or $0.24 per share, from variable annuity guarantee costs, consisting of:
                 
$139 million expense, or $0.60 per share, net of DAC and DSIC, resulting from the impact of credit default spread on the SFAS 157 valuation of living benefit liabilities.
                 
$84 million benefit, or $0.36 per share, net of DAC and DSIC, from living benefit guarantees and the favorable impact of equity market appreciation on death benefits.
 
Core operating earnings for the second quarter of 2009 included a $16 million expense, or $0.07 per share, in increased legal reserves and a provision for a client settlement, as well as a $5 million gain, or $0.02 per share, on the repurchase of junior subordinated notes.
In addition, compared to second quarter of 2008, core operating earnings included estimated negative impacts of $0.36 per share from the market-driven decline in asset-based fees and $0.15 per share from maintaining high liquidity levels and lower spreads.
 
Liquidity and Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2009
 
The company further strengthened its balance sheet and excess capital position, enhancing its financial flexibility to capture additional growth opportunities.
 
Conservative capital management
                 
The company's excess capital position was more than $2 billion, which
included $869 million in net equity raised in the second quarter and reflects anticipated year-end regulatory (VACARVM) and rating agency requirements for the variable annuity business.
                 
The company will continue to use enterprise risk management capabilities and product hedging to anticipate and mitigate risk. The variable annuity hedging program continues to perform well.
 
Substantial liquidity
                 
Cash and cash equivalents were $4.5 billion, with $1.9 billion at the holding company level and $3.8 billion in free cash.
                 
During the quarter, the company redeployed approximately $1.5 billion of free cash into higher-yielding, longer-dated investments.
                 
The company raised $500 million in gross proceeds from two debt issuances during the quarter and launched a tender offer to purchase $450 million principal amount of its November 2010 debt maturities. The tender period ends July 29, 2009.
                 
The company continues to generate substantial business cash flow and invested $5.7 billion in long-term investments during the quarter.
 
High quality investment portfolio
                 
The $30 billion Available-for-Sale portfolio is both well-diversified and high-quality.
                 
The net unrealized loss position declined to $577 million from $1.8 billion at March 31, 2009.
                 
The total investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, increased to $39 billion from $37 billion at March 31, 2009, and remains well-positioned. Detailed information about the portfolio is available online at ir.ameriprise.com.
 
Conservative capital ratios
                 
The debt-to-total capital ratio was 23.1 percent. The debt-to-total capital ratio excluding non-recourse debt and with 75 percent equity credit for hybrid securities was 19.9 percent, or 16.2 percent on a pro forma basis for the retirement of $450 million principal amount of debt through the company's July 2009 tender offer.
Second Quarter 2009 Highlights
 
                 
Total advisors increased 9 percent to 12,508 compared to the second quarter of 2008, reflecting acquisitions and continued strong advisor retention rates.
 
                 
The company continued to attract experienced advisors, with more than 200 experienced advisors joining the firm's branded advisor channels in the quarter.
 
                 
Owned, managed and administered assets were $397 billion as of June 30, 2009, down 10 percent compared to June 30, 2008, primarily due to the 28 percent decline in the S&P 500. On a sequential basis, owned, managed and administered assets grew 12 percent, primarily reflecting equity market appreciation during the quarter and retail net inflows.
 
                 
Client activity began to improve, resulting in solid asset flows across product lines.
 
                 
Wrap net inflows of $2.8 billion in the quarter and market appreciation increased total wrap assets by 16 percent sequentially.
 
                 
Total annuity net inflows in the quarter were $1.1 billion. The company has announced variable annuity product changes for new products to be marketed beginning in the third quarter.
 
                 
Total Asset Management net flows were slightly positive in the quarter, reflecting improved flows at both RiverSource and Threadneedle. Second quarter 2009 flows were approximately $5 billion greater than the second quarter of 2008.
 
                 
Ameriprise Auto & Home premiums increased 6 percent from the prior year, primarily due to growth in policy counts.
 
                 
The company generated approximately $110 million in re-engineering saves in the second quarter, primarily from enhanced operational efficiencies. For the first half of 2009, the company generated approximately $170 million in re-engineering saves and is on pace to exceed its 2009 re-engineering target of $350 million.
 
NM Not Meaningful
 
Second Quarter 2009 Consolidated Results
 
The company reported net income of $95 million for the second quarter of 2009, a 55 percent decline from net income of $210 million for the second quarter of 2008. The primary driver of the decrease was the market-driven decline in asset-based fees and the impact of maintaining high liquidity levels, partially offset by retail net inflows and ongoing expense controls.
 
Total net revenues declined 5 percent, or $91 million, to $1.9 billion, driven by lower management and financial advice fees and distribution fees, primarily as a result of the year-over-year decline in equity markets and clients' preference for short-term and fixed income investment products, partially offset by increased net investment income driven by higher fixed annuity balances.
 
Management and financial advice fees declined 22 percent, or $174 million, to $606 million, primarily due to lower equity markets. On a sequential basis, management and financial advice fees increased 9 percent, reflecting equity market appreciation during the quarter and net inflows in advisor-managed wrap accounts and improved asset management flows.
 
Distribution fees declined 17 percent, or $71 million, to $351 million, primarily due to lower equity markets and growth in cash and deposit products, which resulted in slower sales and flows for other products that generate distribution fees.
Net investment income increased 31 percent, or $121 million, to $514 million, primarily from higher invested asset levels due to fixed annuity net inflows, partially offset by the combination of low short-term interest rates and high liquidity levels. In addition, the current quarter included $6 million of net realized investment gains, compared to $27 million of net realized investment losses in the second quarter of 2008.
 
Premiums increased 5 percent, or $12 million, to $269 million, primarily due to growth in Auto & Home premiums compared to the prior year.
 
Other revenues increased 11 percent, or $17 million, to $175 million, primarily due to an $8 million gain on the repurchase of junior subordinated notes.
 
Banking and deposit interest expense decreased 10 percent, or $4 million, to $38 million, primarily due to lower crediting rates on certificates, partially offset by higher certificate balances.
 
Expenses
 
Consolidated expenses increased 1 percent, or $26 million, to $1.8 billion. Core consolidated expenses decreased 2 percent, or $32 million, to $1.7 billion, reflecting market-driven declines in distribution expenses and cost controls, partially offset by growth in fixed annuity interest credited expense.
 
Distribution expenses declined 16 percent, or $81 million, to $425 million, reflecting decreased advisor compensation, primarily due to year-over-year market depreciation on assets.
 
Interest credited to fixed accounts increased 23 percent, or $45 million, reflecting higher annuity fixed account balances and higher average crediting rates compared to the prior year.
 
Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased 100 percent, or $293 million, to $587 million. The current quarter was impacted by $340 million in variable annuity death and living benefit expenses, which included $604 million in expenses from the non-cash impact of the credit default spread on the SFAS 157 valuation of living benefit liabilities. The line also reflects $49 million in related lower DSIC amortization. Net of the related $206 million DAC amortization offset, DSIC and tax, total variable annuity guarantees lowered earnings by $55 million.
 
Amortization of DAC was a net benefit of $125 million for the current quarter, compared to a $144 million expense in the prior-year period. The current quarter included $206 million in lower DAC amortization offsetting higher variable annuity benefit expenses and $39 million in lower amortization related to the impact of higher policyholder account balances as a result of market appreciation in the quarter.
 
General and administrative expense increased 7 percent, or $38 million, to $610 million. Excluding $91 million in integration costs and ongoing expenses from acquisitions closed in the fourth quarter of 2008, and $23 million in increased legal expenses and a provision for a client settlement, general and administrative expense decreased 13 percent.
 
Taxes
 
The effective tax rate on net income in the second quarter of 2009 was 24.4 percent, up from 13.3 percent from the first quarter of 2009. The second quarter 2009 effective tax rate brings the year-to-date effective tax rate in line with the company's full-year forecast of 20 percent. The higher forecasted effective tax rate reflects higher pretax income estimates for the full year.
 
 
NM Not Meaningful
 
Second Quarter 2009 Segment Financial Highlights
 
Advice & Wealth Management
reported a pretax loss of $3 million for the quarter, compared to pretax income of $51 million for the second quarter of 2008. Core operating earnings were $21 million in the current quarter, compared to $72 million in the second quarter of 2008. The decrease was primarily due to an estimated $57 million market-driven decline in asset-based fees and the impact of maintaining high liquidity levels. Core operating earnings were also impacted by reduced client activity and sales of lower-margin products compared to the year-ago period, partially offset by expense controls.
 
Asset Management
reported a pretax loss of $12 million for the quarter, compared to pretax income of $42 million for the second quarter of 2008. The core operating loss, which excludes integration charges, was $3 million and included a $16 million provision for a client settlement. The decline in core operating earnings was primarily due to an estimated $49 million decrease in asset-based fees, partially offset by continued re-engineering expense initiatives.
 
Annuities
reported pretax income of $94 million for the quarter, compared to pretax income of $77 million for the second quarter of 2008. Core operating earnings for the segment were $132 million, compared to $88 million in the prior year, driven by growth in fixed annuity account values and higher spreads. The decline in market-driven asset-based fees lowered year-over-year pretax income by approximately $36 million in the quarter.
 
Protection
reported pretax income of $110 million, compared to $113 million for the second quarter of 2008. The decline was primarily driven by a higher loss ratio in Auto & Home. Second quarter 2009 permanent insurance cash sales improved 36 percent compared to the first quarter of 2009, reflecting increased sales of universal life insurance and flat sales of more market-sensitive variable universal life insurance.
 
Corporate & Other
reported a pretax loss of $66 million, compared to a pretax loss of $46 million for the second quarter of 2008. Segment results for the current quarter included an $8 million gain from the repurchase of junior subordinated notes as well as $7 million in net realized investment gains. In
addition, results included an estimated $34 million negative impact from lower short-term rates on the company's enterprise-wide liquidity pool.
 
Dividend
 
The Ameriprise Financial Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.17 per common share payable on August 17, 2009 to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 3, 2009.
 
Contacts
 
 
 
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a diversified financial services company serving the comprehensive financial planning needs of the mass affluent and affluent. For more information, visit ameriprise.com.
 
RiverSource mutual funds are distributed by RiverSource Distributors, Inc. and RiverSource Fund Distributors, Inc., Members FINRA and managed by RiverSource Investments, LLC. For complete mutual fund ranking data and other important disclosures please refer to Exhibit A "RiverSource Mutual Fund Performance and Lipper Ranking" in the Second Quarter 2009 Statistical Supplement available at ir.ameriprise.com.
 
The Threadneedle group of companies constitutes the Ameriprise Financial international investment platform. The group consists of wholly owned subsidiaries of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and provides services independent from Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc., including Ameriprise Financial Services' broker-dealer business.
 
Ameriprise Certificates are issued by Ameriprise Certificate Company and distributed by Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA.
 
Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. offers financial planning services, investments, insurance and annuity products. RiverSource insurance and annuity products are issued by RiverSource Life Insurance Company, and in New York only by RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York, Albany, New York. Only RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York is authorized to sell insurance and annuity products in the state of New York. These companies are all part of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. CA License #0684538.
This announcement is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell the company's 5.35% Senior Notes due November 15, 2010 (the "Notes") or any other securities. The tender offer is made only by and pursuant to the terms of the Offer to Purchase dated July 1, 2009 and the related Letter of Transmittal. The tender offer is not being made to holders in any jurisdiction in which the making or acceptance thereof would be unlawful. None of Ameriprise Financial, Inc., the dealer managers, the depositary or the information agent makes any recommendation as to whether holders should tender their Notes in response to the tender offer. Holders must make their own decisions as to whether to tender Notes and, if so, the principal amount of Notes to tender.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements. The company has made various forward-looking statements in this report. Examples of such forward-looking statements include:
 
                 
the statement of belief in this news release that the company is positioned to pursue additional growth opportunities;
                 
the statement of belief in this news release that the company will exceed $350 million of expense savings in 2009;
                 
the statement of belief in this news release that pretax income estimates for the current year are sequentially increased, and the implications thereof and the first and second fiscal quarters on estimated 2009 full-year effective tax rate;
                 
the statement of belief in this news release that the company expects its 2009 full-year effective tax rate will be approximately 20 percent;
                 
the statement about the company's debt to total capital ratio on a pro forma basis for the retirement of $450 million principal amount of debt through the company's pending tender offer;
                 
s
tatements of the company's plans, intentions, expectations, objectives or goals, including those relating to asset flows, mass affluent and affluent client acquisition strategy, client retention, financial advisor retention, recruiting and enrollments, general and administrative costs, consolidated tax rate; and excess capital position;
                 
other statements about future economic performance, the performance of equity markets and interest rate variations and the economic performance of the United States and of global markets; and
                 
statements of assumptions underlying such statements.
 
The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "aim," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
 
Such factors include, but are not limited to:
                 
changes in the valuations, liquidity and volatility in the interest rate, credit default, equity market, and foreign exchange environments;
                 
changes in the litigation and regulatory environment, including ongoing legal proceedings and regulatory actions, the frequency and extent of legal claims threatened or initiated by clients, other persons and regulators, and developments in regulation and legislation;
                 
investment management performance and consumer acceptance of the company's products;
                 
effects of competition in the financial services industry and changes in product distribution mix and distribution channels;
                 
the company's capital structure, including indebtedness, limitations on subsidiaries to pay dividends, and the extent, manner, terms and timing of any share or debt repurchases management may effect (including the completion of the company's July 2009 tender offer) as well as the opinions of rating agencies and other analysts and the reactions of market participants or the company's regulators, advisors, distribution partners or customers in response to any change or prospect of change in any such opinion;
                 
risks of default by issuers or guarantors of investments the company owns or by counterparties to hedge, derivative, insurance or reinsurance arrangements or by manufacturers of products the company distributes, experience deviations from the company's assumptions regarding such risks,
the evaluations or the prospect of changes in evaluations of any such third parties published by rating agencies or other analysts, and the reactions of other market participants or the company's regulators, advisors, distribution partners or customers in response to any such evaluation or prospect of changes in evaluation;
                 
experience deviations from the company's assumptions regarding morbidity, mortality and persistency in certain annuity and insurance products, or from assumptions regarding market returns assumed in valuing DAC and DSIC or market volatility underlying our valuation and hedging of guaranteed living benefit annuity riders;
                 
changes in capital requirements that may be indicated, required or advised by regulators or rating agencies;
                 
the impacts of the company's efforts to improve distribution economics and to grow third-party distribution of its products;
                 
the company's ability to realize the financial, operating and business fundamental benefits or to obtain regulatory approvals regarding integration we plan for the acquisitions we have completed;
                 
the ability and timing to realize savings and other benefits from re-engineering and tax planning;
                 
changes in the capital markets and competitive environments induced or resulting from the partial or total ownership or other support by central governments of certain financial services firms or financial assets; and
                 
general economic and political factors, including consumer confidence in the economy, the ability and inclination of consumers generally to invest as well as their ability and inclination to invest in financial instruments and products other than cash and cash equivalents, the costs of products and services the company consumes in the conduct of its business, and applicable legislation and regulation and changes therein, including tax laws, tax treaties, fiscal and central government treasury policy, and policies regarding the financial services industry and publicly-held firms, and regulatory rulings and pronouncements.
 
Management cautions the reader that the foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. There may also be other risks that management is unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Management undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements. The foregoing list of factors should be read in conjunction with the "Risk Factors" discussion included as Part 1, Item 1A of and elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for year-end 2008 at .
ir.ameriprise.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=191716&p=irol-forwardLookingStatement
 
The financial results discussed in this news release represent past performance only, which may not be used to predict or project future results. The financial results and values presented in this news release and the below-referenced Statistical Supplement are based upon asset valuations that represent estimates as of the date of this news release and may be revised in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. For information about Ameriprise Financial entities, please refer to the Second Quarter 2009 Statistical Supplement available at ir.ameriprise.com and the tables that follow in this news release.
 
Reconciliation Tables
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
 The company's junior subordinated notes receive an equity credit of at least 75% by the majority of the rating agencies.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
  
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
(1)
  
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(2)
  
Total expenses include net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
(1)
  
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
  
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(2)
  
Calculation excludes net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
Equal Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Counts the number of Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total number of Class A funds.  Asset size is not a factor.
 
Asset Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Sums the assets of the Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total Class A assets.  Funds with more assets will receive a greater share of the total percentage above or below median.
 
Aggregated data shows only actively-managed mutual funds by affiliated investment managers.
 
Aggregated data do not include mutual funds sub-advised by advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc., RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund, RiverSource Cash Management Fund and RiverSource Tax Free Money Market Fund.
 
Aggregated equity rankings include RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series and other balanced and asset allocation funds that invest in both equities and fixed income.
 
RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series funds are funds of mutual funds that may invest in third-party sub-advised funds.
 
Aggregated data only include mutual funds in existence as of current quarter end.  Refer to Exhibit A for RiverSource individual mutual fund performance rankings and other important disclosures.
 
Exhibit A includes RiverSource performance rankings for funds sub-advised by non-affiliated advisors for general reference although not included in the summary above.
 
 
(1)
  
Included in Market appreciation (depreciation) and other, for the 4th Qtr of 2008, were $ 12.8 B of assets due to the acquisition of J. & W. Seligman & Co. Balances included $6.7 B of Retail Funds, $3.2 B of Institutional and $2.9 B of Alternative.
(2)
  
Included in Market appreciation (depreciation) and other are share repurchase, debt repurchase, equity issuance, debt issuance and acquisitions.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
(1)
  
Amounts represent British Pound to US dollar conversion.
(2)
  Included in Retail funds other, for the 2nd Qtr of 2009, were $2.1 B of assets due to the acquisition of Standard Chartered Bank's World Express Funds investment business.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
(1)
  
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
(2)
  Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit (GMWB) and Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefit (GMAB) only.
(3)
  Q3 2008 includes loss on derivatives related to Lehman Brothers bankruptcy.
 
# Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
(1)
  Includes payout annuities.
(2)
  Attributable to interest sensitive products only, which have been approximately 98% of the total ending fixed annuities accumulation values in the periods reported.  Through October of 2008, the asset earnings rate is a calculated theoretical yield obtained from the assignment of investment income using the investment year method of allocation.  After October of 2008, the asset earnings rate is a calculated yield based on specifically assigned assets.
(3)
  Reflects adoption of FAS 157 in 1st Qtr 2008.
 
#
 Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
(1)
 
See non-GAAP Financial Information.
 
#  Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
(1)
 
Includes lump sum deposits.
 
#  Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
#  Variance of 100% or greater.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the Company) follows accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP).  This report includes information on both a U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP basis.
 
This report contains certain non-GAAP measures, which our management views as important indicators of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include:
 
Pretax income (loss) margin and Pretax segment income (loss) margin;
Net income (loss) attributable to Ameriprise Financial margin;
Pretax return on allocated equity;
Total debt excluding non-recourse debt;
Total debt excluding non-recourse debt and 75% equity credit;
Total capital excluding non-recourse debt;
Debt to total capital excluding non-recourse debt;
Debt to total capital excluding non-recourse debt and 75% equity credit;
Pretax operating earnings; and
Pretax operating earnings margin.
 
Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures excluding these specific income statement impacts best reflects the underlying performance of the Company's ongoing operations and facilitates a more meaningful trend analysis.  These non-GAAP measures are also used for goal setting, certain compensation related to the Company's annual incentive award program and evaluating the Company's performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts.
 
The Company presents debt to capital ratios excluding non-recourse debt of structured entities consolidated in accordance with FIN 46(R),  EITF 04-5 and other accounting literature and with a 75% equity credit for the Company's junior subordinated debt.  Management believes that the debt to capital ratios excluding this non-recourse debt better represent the Company's capital structure.
 
Reclassification
Certain prior period information has been restated to conform to current period presentation.
 
Advice & Wealth Management
- This segment provides financial advice and full service brokerage and banking services, primarily to retail clients, through our financial advisors. Our advisors distribute a diversified selection of both proprietary and non-proprietary products to help clients meet their financial needs. A significant portion of revenues in this segment are fee-based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets from primarily certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for distributing non-proprietary products and earns intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for distributing our proprietary products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
 
Asset Management -
This segment provides investment advice and investment products to retail and institutional clients. Threadneedle Investments predominantly provides international investment products and services, and RiverSource Investments predominantly provides domestic products and services. Domestic retail products are primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and also through third-party distribution. International retail products are primarily distributed through third parties. Products accessed by consumers on a retail basis include mutual funds, variable product funds underlying insurance and annuity separate accounts, separately managed accounts and collective funds. Asset Management products are also distributed directly to institutions through an institutional sales force. Institutional asset management products include traditional asset classes separate accounts, collateralized loan obligations, hedge funds and property funds. Revenues in this segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. This segment earns intersegment revenue for investment management services. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our  Advice & Wealth Management, Annuities and Protection segments.
 
Annuities -
This segment provides RiverSource Life variable and fixed annuity products to our retail clients primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and to the retail clients of unaffiliated distributors through third-party distribution. Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on underlying account balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. Revenues for our fixed annuity products are primarily earned as net investment income on underlying account balances, with profitability significantly impacted by the spread between net investment income earned and interest credited on the fixed account balances. We also earn net investment income on owned assets supporting annuity benefits reserves and capital supporting the business. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable annuity contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
 
Protection
- This segment offers a variety of protection products to address the identified protection and risk management needs of our retail clients including life, disability income and property-casualty insurance. Life and disability income products are primarily distributed through our Advice & Wealth Management segment. Our property-casualty products are sold direct, primarily through affinity relationships. The primary sources of revenues for this segment are premiums, fees, and charges that we receive to assume insurance-related risk. We earn net investment income on owned assets supporting insurance reserves and capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of assets supporting variable universal life separate account balances. This segment earns intersegment revenues from fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment.
 
Corporate & Other -
This segment consists of net investment income on corporate level assets, including unallocated equity and other revenues from various investments as well as unallocated corporate expenses.
 
Administered Assets
- Administered assets include assets for which we provide administrative services such as client assets invested in other companies' products that we offer outside of our wrap accounts. These assets include those held in clients' brokerage accounts. We do not exercise management discretion over these assets and do not earn a management fee. These assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
Alternative Assets
- Assets reported by the Company that include Hedge Funds and Collateralized Debt Obligations ("CDO").
 
Allocated Equity
- The internal allocation of consolidated Ameriprise Financial shareholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), to our operating segments for purposes of measuring segment return on allocated equity.  Allocated equity does not represent insurance company risk-based capital or other regulatory capital requirements applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries. For the Corporate & Other segment, allocated equity also includes any excess capital.
 
Ameriprise Financial
- Ameriprise Financial includes ownership interests in subsidiaries that are attributable, directly or indirectly, to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and excludes noncontrolling interests.
 
Auto & Home Insurance -
Personal auto and home protection products marketed directly to customers through marketing affiliates such as Costco Wholesale Corporation, Delta Loyalty Management Services, Inc. and Ford Motor Credit Company. We sell these products through our auto and home subsidiary, IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company (doing business as Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance).
 
Book Value per Share
- Total Ameriprise Financial shareholders' equity divided by the number of basic common shares outstanding at period-end.
 
Cash Sales
- Cash sales are the dollar value volume indicator that captures gross new cash inflows which generate product revenue streams to our company. This includes primarily "client initiated" activity that results in an incremental increase in assets (owned, managed or administered), or premiums in force (but doesn't need to result in time of sale revenue), or activity that doesn't increase assets or premiums in force, but generates "fee revenue".
 
Debt to Total Capital Ratio
- A ratio comprised of total debt divided by Total Capital. We also present debt to capital ratios excluding non-recourse debt of structured entities consolidated in accordance with FIN 46(R),  EITF 04-5 and other accounting literature and a 75% equity credit for our junior subordinated debt. 
 
Deferred Acquisition Costs and Amortization
- Deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") represent the costs of acquiring new protection, annuity and certain mutual fund business, principally direct sales commissions and other distribution and underwriting costs that have been deferred on the sale of annuity, life, disability income and long term care insurance and, to a lesser extent, deferred marketing and promotion expenses on auto and home insurance and deferred distribution costs on certain mutual fund products. These costs are deferred to the extent they are recoverable from future profits.
 
Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 04-5, "Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights" ("EITF 04-5")
- EITF 04-5 provides guidance on whether a partnership should be consolidated by one of its partners. Our adoption of EITF 04-5 effective January 1, 2006 resulted in the consolidation of certain limited partnerships for which we are the general partner. As a result, we consolidate certain property fund limited partnerships managed by Threadneedle Investments and certain hedge funds managed by RiverSource Investments.
 
Financial Planning Penetration
- The period-end number of current clients who have received a financial plan, or have entered into an agreement to receive and have paid for a financial plan, divided by the number of active retail client groups, serviced by branded financial advisors.
 
Life Insurance in force -
The total amount of all life insurance death benefits currently insured by our company.
 
Managed External Client Assets
- Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the RiverSource family of mutual funds, assets of institutional clients and client assets held in wrap accounts (retail accounts for which we receive an advice fee based on assets held in the account).  Managed external client assets also include assets managed by sub-advisors selected by us. Managed external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
Managed Owned Assets
- Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we provide investment management services and recognize management fees, such as the assets of the general account and RiverSource Variable Product funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries.
 
Net Amount at Risk -
Life insurance in force less policyholder reserves net of re-insurance.
 
Net Flows -
Sales less redemptions and miscellaneous flows which may include reinvested dividends.
 
Net Income (Loss) Margin -
A ratio representing net income as a percentage of total net revenues.
 
Owned Assets
- Owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we do not provide investment management services and do not recognize management fees, such as investments in non-proprietary funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries, as well as restricted and segregated cash and receivables.
 
Pretax Segment Income (Loss) or Pretax Income (Loss) -
Income (loss) before net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest and income tax provision (benefit).
 
Pretax Segment Income (Loss) Margin or Pretax Income (Loss) Margin -
A ratio representing pretax income (loss) or pretax segment income (loss) as a percentage of total net revenues.
 
Pretax Operating Earnings -
Pretax segment income (loss) plus or minus net realized gains (losses).
 
Pretax Operating Earnings Margin -
A ratio representing pretax operating earnings as a percentage of total net revenues.
 
Pretax Return on Allocated Equity -
Calculated using pretax income (loss) for the last twelve months and the average allocated equity as of the last day of the trailing four quarters and current quarter end. 
 
Securities America
- Securities America Financial Corporation ("SAFC") is a corporation whose sole function is to hold the stock of its operating subsidiaries, Securities America, Inc. ("SAI") and Securities America Advisors, Inc. ("SAA"). SAI is a registered broker-dealer and an insurance agency. SAA is an SEC registered investment advisor.
 
Separate Accounts
- Represent assets and liabilities that are maintained and established primarily for the purpose of funding variable annuity and insurance products. The assets of the separate account are only available to fund the liabilities of the variable entity contract holders and others with contracts requiring premiums or other deposits to the separate account. Clients elect to invest premiums in stock, bond and/or money market funds depending on their risk tolerance. All investment performance, net of fees, is passed through to the client.
 
SOP 05-1 ("Statement of Position"), "Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection With Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts"
- SOP 05-1 provides guidance on accounting for DAC associated with any insurance or annuity contract that is significantly modified or internally replaced with another contract.
 
Third Party Distribution
- Distribution of RiverSource products, which include a variety of equity and fixed income mutual funds, annuities and insurance products, to retail clients through unaffiliated financial institutions and broker-dealers.  The Third Party channel is separate from the Branded Advisor, Threadneedle, SAFC, and Institutional sales channels.
 
Threadneedle - -
Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Sarl is a holding company for the London-based Threadneedle companies, which provide investment management products and services.
 
Total Capital -
Total Ameriprise Financial shareholders' equity plus total debt. Total capital is also presented excluding non-recourse debt.
 
Wrap Accounts
- Wrap accounts enable our clients to purchase other securities such as mutual funds in connection with investment advisory fee-based "wrap account" programs or services. We offer clients the opportunity to select products that include proprietary and non-proprietary funds. We currently offer both discretionary and non-discretionary investment advisory wrap accounts. In a discretionary wrap account, an unaffiliated investment advisor or our investment management subsidiary, RiverSource Investments, LLC chooses the underlying investments in the portfolio on behalf of the client. In a non-discretionary wrap account, the client chooses the underlying investments in the portfolio based, to the extent the client elects, in part or whole on the recommendations of their financial advisor. Investors in our wrap accounts generally pay an asset-based fee based on the assets held in their wrap accounts. These investors also pay any related fees or costs included in the underlying securities held in that account, such as underlying mutual fund operating expenses and Rule 12b-1 fees.
 
 
 
 
Equity Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of June 30, 2009
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
 
Equity Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of June 30, 2009
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
 
Equity Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of June 30, 2009
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
 
Equity Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of June 30, 2009
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
 
Equity Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of June 30, 2009
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
 
^ Since fund inception returns and rankings are not available.  Actual fund inception date pre-dates data in Lipper database.
(1) 
Since inception returns for periods less than one year in length are cumulative.
(2) 
Mutual funds subadvised by advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
(3) 
RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund data is for D shares.
 
Fixed Income Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of June 30, 2009
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
The performance information shown represents past performance and is not a guarantee of future results.  The investment return and principal value of your investment will fluctuate so that your shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost.  Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance information shown.  You may obtain performance information current to the most recent month-end by visiting riversource.com/funds.
 
 
(1)
  Since inception returns for periods less than one year in length are cumulative.
 
Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of June 30, 2009
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
Important Disclosures
 
Rankings based on annualized total returns, excluding sales charges.  Net asset value (NAV) returns for all periods would have been lower if the applicable sales charges were included.
 
Please note the following about the "Ranking since" Lipper Rankings: In order to obtain a more accurate "since inception" Lipper Ranking for funds with an inception prior to 2000, the Thursday or month-end date following the actual inception date was used, rather than the actual inception date.  When researching since inception rankings, please use the "Ranking Since" date.
 
Please note the following about the "Annualized Returns @ POP":  The POP return is calculated assuming a one-time purchase of the Fund at the maximum sales charge listed in the exhibit.  RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund has no sales loads, however, a redemption fee of 0.50% is charged on shares redeemed within 180 days of purchase.
 
Net assets per fund include all share classes.  Assets for RiverSource Portfolio Builder Funds, RiverSource Income Builder Funds and RiverSource Retirement Plus Funds are invested in other RiverSource Funds and therefore would be double counted if assets are summed to reach a total.
 
Fee waivers were in place for each subadvised fund shown and the return would have been lower for each Fund had fee waivers not been in place.
 
You should consider the investment objectives, risks, and charges and expenses of mutual funds carefully before investing. For a free prospectus, which contains this and other important information about the funds, call (800) 297-3863, TTY: (800) 846-4852.  Read the prospectus carefully before investing.
 
The RiverSource Global Technology Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives.
 
Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies involve greater risk and potential volatility than investments in larger, more established companies.
 
The RiverSource Precious Metals and Mining Fund is a narrowly focused sector fund and it may exhibit higher volatility than funds with broader investment objectives.
 
Investments in Real Estate Securities may be subject to specific risks, such as risks to general and local economic conditions, and risks to individual properties.
 
International investing involves increased risk and volatility, not typically associated with domestic investing, due to changes in currency exchange rates, foreign government regulations, differences in auditing and accounting standards, potential political and economic instability, limited liquidity and volatile prices. The risks of international investing are particularly significant in emerging markets.
 
There are risks associated with an investment in a bond fund, including credit risk, interest rate risk, and prepayment and extension risk. In general, bond prices rise when interest rates fall and vice versa. This effect is more pronounced for longer-term securities. Non-investment grade securities have more volatile prices and carry more risk to principal and income than investment grade securities.
 
High Yield funds invest in lower-rated bonds which have more volatile prices and carry more risk to principal and income than investment grade securities.
 
Principal risks associated with the RiverSource Inflation Protected Securities Fund include style risk, interest rate risk, market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and sector/concentration risk. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS) are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. The U.S. government guarantee applies only to the underlying TIPS securities, and not the Fund itself.
 
Income from tax-exempt funds may be subject to state and local taxes, and a portion of income may be subject to the federal and/or state alternative minimum tax for certain investors. Federal income tax  rules will apply to any capital gains distribution.
 
Shares of the RiverSource Short Duration U.S. Government Fund , the RiverSource U.S. Government Mortgage Fund, the Seligman U.S. Government Securities Fund, and of the Seligman Municipal Funds are not insured or guaranteed by the U.S. government.
 
The Floating Rate Fund invests primarily in floating rate loans, the market value of which may fluctuate, sometimes rapidly and unpredictably. The principal risks of investing in the fund include liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, counterparty risk, highly leveraged transactions risk, derivatives risk, confidential information access risk, and impairment of collateral risk. Generally, when interest rates rise, the prices of fixed income securities fall, however, securities or loans with floating interest rates can be less sensitive to interest rate changes, but they may decline in value if their interest rates do not rise as  much as interest rates in general.  Limited liquidity may affect the ability of the fund to purchase or sell floating rate loans and may have a negative impact on fund performance.  The floating rate loans and  securities in which the fund invests generally are lower-rated (non-investment grade) and are more likely to experience a default, which results in more volatile prices and more risk to principal and income than investment grade loans or securities. See the Fund's prospectus for information on these and other risks associated with the Fund.
 
The RiverSource Portfolio Builder Funds, RiverSource Income Builder Funds and RiverSource Retirement Plus Funds are "funds of funds" comprised of holdings in several different RiverSource funds, which may include small cap, mid cap, large cap, money market, international, bond and/or other sector funds. Specific risk considerations are discussed in each fund's prospectus. Each of the underlying funds in which the portfolio invests has its own investment risks, and those risks can affect the value of each portfolio's shares and investments.  See each fund's prospectus for specific risks that may be associated with the underlying funds.
 
Information regarding a Fund's portfolio holdings should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell any security or as an indication that any security is suitable for a particular investor. Monthly portfolio holdings information does not represent an entire portfolio and, in the aggregate, may only represent a small portion of a Fund's total holdings. It should not be assumed that any of the securities, transactions or  holdings listed in the links below were or will be profitable.
 
Fund returns for Seligman Capital Fund prior to September 26, 2002 do not reflect the increased management fee effective on such date. This fee, if reflected, would reduce the performance data quoted for the Fund for such periods. Seligman is waiving all or part of its investment management fee and/or reimbursing Fund expenses for Seligman California High-Yield Municipal Fund, Seligman Florida Municipal Fund,  Seligman Frontier Fund, Seligman Core Fixed Income Fund, Seligman LaSalle Global Real Estate Fund, Seligman LaSalle Monthly Dividend Real Estate Fund, Seligman Emerging Markets Fund, Seligman Global Growth Fund, Seligman International Growth Fund, Seligman TargETFund Core, Seligman TargETFund 2015, Seligman TargETFund 2025, Seligman TargETFund 2035, Seligman TargETFund 2045,  Seligman Asset Allocation Aggressive Growth Fund, Seligman Asset Allocation Growth Fund, Seligman Asset Allocation Moderate Growth Fund, Seligman Asset Allocation Balanced Fund. In addition, from time  to time, Seligman has reimbursed expenses or waived investment management fees of other Seligman Mutual Funds. Seligman may implement or discontinue voluntary expense reimbursements or fee waivers at any time. Absent such reimbursement/waivers, returns would have been lower.
 
Dividends paid by Seligman LaSalle Monthly Dividend Real Estate Fund generally will be taxable as ordinary income. It is expected that income dividends paid by the Fund generally will not be eligible for the reduction in dividend tax rates set forth in the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003.
 
The four funds within the Seligman Asset Allocation Series and Seligman TargetHorizon ETF Portfolios
SM
 invest in the Seligman Mutual Funds (Underlying Seligman Funds) and exchange traded funds (ETFs), respectively, to implement their unique asset allocation strategies. Investments in the underlying Seligman Funds or ETFs involve risk, including the risk of loss of principal. An investor in a Fund within the Seligman Asset Allocation Series or Seligman TargetHorizon ETF Portfolios
SM
 will indirectly bear the operating expenses of the Underlying Seligman Funds or ETFs, as applicable, in which the Fund invests.  Thus, the expenses borne by the investor will be higher than if he or she invested directly in the Underlying Seligman Funds or ETFs, and the returns may therefore be lower.
 
"Standard & Poor's," "S&P," "S&P 500," and "Standard & Poor's 500" are trademarks of the McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. These trademarks and service marks have been licensed for use by RiverSource Investments. The Funds are not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Standard & Poor's or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates (the "Licensors") and the Licensors make no representation regarding the advisability of investing in the Funds.
 
Fund Performance & Lipper Ranking
As of June 30, 2009
Source of Data:  Lipper
 
Important Disclosures - continued
 
Investment products are not federally or FDIC insured, are not deposits or obligations of, or guaranteed by any financial institution; and involve investment risks including possible loss of principal and fluctuation in value.
 
Brokerage, investment and financial advisory services are made available through Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA and SIPC. Ameriprise Bank, FSB, member FDIC, provides certain deposit and lending products and services for Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Ameriprise Bank, FSB deposit products are FDIC-insured up to $100,000 per customer.
 
RiverSource Distributors, Inc. (Distributor), Member FINRA. Insurance and annuity products are issued by RiverSource Life Insurance Company, and in New York only by RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York, Albany, NY. Only RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York is authorized to sell insurance products in the state of NY.
 
RiverSource, Seligman, and Threadneedle mutual funds are part of the RiverSource family of funds, and are distributed by RiverSource Fund Distributors, Inc., Member FINRA, and managed by RiverSource Investments, LLC. Threadneedle mutual funds are subadvised by Threadneedle International Limited. RiverSource and Threadneedle are part of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. Seligman is an offering brand of  RiverSource Investments.
 
RiverSource Investments, LLC is an SEC-registered investment adviser that offers investment products and services under the names RiverSource Institutional Advisors, RiverSource Alternative Investments, RiverSource Capital Management and RiverSource Insurance Assets.  RiverSource Investments LLC also serves as the Investment Manager for the RiverSource mutual funds.
 
Ameriprise Certificates are issued by Ameriprise Certificate Company and distributed by Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. Member FINRA.
 
Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance issues auto, home and umbrella insurance underwritten by Ameriprise Insurance Company or IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company (IDS Property Casualty), DePere, WI.
 
Mortgages and home equity loans are provided by Ameriprise Bank, FSB, an FDIC-insured federal savings bank. Ameriprise Bank, FSB, an Equal Housing Lender, is an Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. company.
 
These companies, including Securities America, Inc., Member FINRA, are all affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
 
[Not all products and all share classes are available through all firms.]
 
 
 
(1)
       
Return on equity is calculated using the trailing twelve months income in the numerator and Ameriprise Financial shareholders' equity, calculated using a five point average of quarter-end equity, in the denominator.
 
 
 
(1)   
Pretax net realized investment gains/(losses) on Available-for-Sale securities and other securities
(2)   
In accordance with EITF 04-5, reflects consolidation of property fund limited partnerships managed by Threadneedle and hedge fund partnerships managed by RiverSource
(3)   
Non-recurring integration charges related to J. & W. Seligman & Co. and H&R Block Financial Advisors acquisitions
(4)   
Increase in legal expenses
(5)   
Variable annuity guarantee impacts include:
$ 360 million net expense related to hedged variable annuity living benefits
$ 255 million decrease in DAC and DSIC amortization resulting from hedged living benefits offset
$ 20 million decrease in death and income benefit expenses due to higher equity market valuations
(6)   
Decrease in DAC and DSIC amortization related to market
(7)   
Gain on the repurchase of certain junior subordinated notes
 
 
 
(1)
           
Pretax net realized investment gains/(losses) on Available-for-Sale securities and other securities
(2)
           
In accordance with EITF 04-5, reflects consolidation of property fund limited partnerships managed by Threadneedle and hedge fund partnerships managed by RiverSource
(3)
           
Non-recurring integration charges related to J. & W. Seligman & Co. and H&R Block Financial Advisors acquisitions
(4)
           
Variable annuity guarantee impacts include:
$267 million net benefit related to hedged variable annuity living benefits
$182 million increase in DAC and DSIC amortization resulting from hedged living benefits offset
$31 million increase in death and income benefit expenses due to lower equity market valuations
(5)
           
Increase in DAC and DSIC amortization related to market
(6)
           
Gain on the repurchase of certain junior subordinated notes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
 
Change due completing integration of  J. & W. Seligman & Co. managed assets reporting.  See page 13.
(2)
  Capital changes (share repurchase, debt repurchase, equity issuance, debt issuance and acquisitions) are moved to Market appreciation and other from Net flows. See page 15.


