FILE:AMP/AMP-8K-20120426114907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03
                    
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On April 25, 2012, the Board of Directors of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (the "Company") approved a series of amendments to Article VI of the Company's by-laws ("By-Laws") pertaining to the indemnification of and the advancement of expenses to the directors and officers of the Company. A summary of the changes to the By-Laws, which became effective upon such approval, is set forth below and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the amended and restated By-Laws, a complete copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and is hereby incorporated by reference in response to this Item 5.03.
 
Amendments to Article VI of the By-Laws, entitled "Indemnification and Advancement", include: (i) certain clarifying and technical changes to conform more closely to the current version of Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which is the relevant statutory provision and has been amended by the Delaware legislature a number of times since the Company's separation from American Express Company in 2005; (ii) certain changes regarding the procedures for and the survival of rights related to the indemnification of and advancement of expenses to directors and officers; and (iii) the addition of Section 6.09, which provides for the reduction of the Company's obligation to indemnify or advance expenses to a director or officer by any amount that such individual collects as indemnification or advancement of expenses from another corporation or enterprise.
 
Item 5.07
                    
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
The 2012 annual meeting of the
stockholder
s of the Company was held on April 25, 2012. At the meeting, the holders of 194,116,382 shares of common stock, which represents approximately 88 percent of the 221,738,052 outstanding shares entitled to vote as of the record date of February 27, 2012, were represented in person or by proxy.
 
The voting results of the Items 1, 2 and 3 approved by the
stockholder
s at the meeting are set forth below.
 
Item 1
. In the vote on the election of four Class I directors, each for a term of one year to expire at the 2013 annual meeting or until their successors are elected and qualified, the "for" votes received by Lon R. Greenberg, Warren D. Knowlton, Jeffrey Noddle and Robert F. Sharpe, Jr. represented approximately 97, 95, 95 and 95 percent, respectively, of the shares voted at the meeting.  The voting results were as follows:
 
 
The directors not standing for re-election whose terms continued after the 2012 annual meeting are as follows: James M. Cracchiolo, W. Walker Lewis, Siri S. Marshall, H. Jay Sarles and William H. Turner.  At our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders, our stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation that provides for the elimination of the Company's classified board structure effective as of the 2013 annual meeting.  Accordingly, the terms of all of our current directors will end at our 2013 annual meeting and such directors will thereafter be elected on an annual basis.
 
Item 2
. The nonbinding advisory vote to approve the compensation of the Company's named executive officers resulted in "for" votes from approximately 92 percent of the shares voted. The voting results were as follows:
 
Item 3
. The vote on the ratification of the selection by the Company's audit committee of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2012 resulted in "for" votes from approximately 99 percent of the shares voted. The voting results were as follows:
 
 
Item 8.01
                    
Other Events.
 
On April 25, 2012, the Board of Directors adopted resolutions approving the Company's entry into amended and restated indemnification agreements with the directors and certain officers of the Company, which agreements will supersede and replace the indemnification agreements previously entered into with such individuals.  The full text of the form of amended and restated indemnification agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
 
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
Section 1.01.  .  The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation for the election of Directors and for the transaction of such other business as properly may come before such meeting shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, or, within the sole discretion of the Board of Directors, by remote communication and at such date and at such time, as may be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors and set forth in the notice or waiver of notice of the meeting.
Annual Meetings
 
Section 1.02.  .  Special meetings of the stockholders may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer (or, in the event of his or her absence or disability, by the President or any Executive Vice President), or by the Board of Directors. A special meeting shall be called by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer (or, in the event of his or her absence or disability, by the President or any Executive Vice President), or by the Secretary of the Corporation pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. Such special meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such places, within or without the State of Delaware, or, within the sole discretion of the Board of Directors, by remote communication, as shall be specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof. Any power of the stockholders of the Corporation to call a special meeting is specifically denied.
Special Meetings
 
Section 1.03.  .
Notice Of Meetings; Waiver
 
(a)
  
The Secretary of the Corporation or any Assistant Secretary shall cause written notice of the place, if any, date and hour of each meeting of the stockholders, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting (if such date is different from the record date for stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting) and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which such meeting is called, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, to be given personally by mail or by electronic transmission, or as otherwise provided in these By-Laws, not fewer than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the meeting, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If such notice is mailed, it shall be deemed to have been given personally to a stockholder when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the record of stockholders of the Corporation, or, if a stockholder shall have filed with the Secretary of the Corporation a written request that notices to such stockholder be mailed to some other address, then directed to such stockholder at such other address. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law.
 
(b)
  
A written waiver of any notice of any annual or special meeting signed by the person entitled thereto, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders need be specified in a written waiver of notice. Attendance of a stockholder at a meeting of stockholders shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the stockholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
 
(c)
  
For notice given by electronic transmission to a stockholder to be effective, such stockholder must consent to the Corporation's giving notice by that particular form of electronic transmission. A stockholder may revoke consent to receive notice by electronic transmission by written notice to the Corporation. A stockholder's consent to notice by electronic transmission is automatically revoked if the Corporation is unable to deliver two consecutive electronic transmission notices and
 
 
such inability becomes known to the Secretary of the Corporation, any Assistant Secretary, the transfer agent or other person responsible for giving notice.
 
(d)
  
Notices are deemed given (i) if by facsimile, when faxed to a number where the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (ii) if by electronic mail, when mailed electronically to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive such notice; (iii) if by posting on an electronic network (such as a website or chatroom) together with a separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later to occur of (A) such posting or (B) the giving of the separate notice of such posting; or (iv) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder in the manner consented to by the stockholder.
 
(e)
  
If a stockholder meeting is to be held via remote communications and stockholders will take action at such meeting, the notice of such meeting must: (i) specify the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present and vote at such meeting; and (ii) provide the information required to access the stockholder list. A waiver of notice may be given by electronic transmission.
 
Section 1.04.  .  Except as otherwise required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, at each meeting of stockholders the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of record of a majority in voting power of the shares entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting. Shares of its own stock belonging to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity.
Quorum
 
Section 1.05.  .  If, pursuant to Section 5.05 of these By-Laws, a record date for determining the stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting and a record date for determining stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting have been fixed, every holder of record as of the record date for determining stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to one (1) vote for each share outstanding in his or her name on the books of the Corporation at the close of business on such record date. If the Board of Directors fixes a record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting and does not fix a record date for determining stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting shall be the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting.  If no record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at the meeting has been fixed, then every holder of record of shares entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one (1) vote for each share of stock standing in his or her name on the books of the Corporation at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of the meeting is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, Directors shall be elected by the appropriate method provided for in Section 1.11 of these By-Laws, and in all other matters, the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at a meeting and voting on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
Voting
 
Section 1.06.  .  No vote of the stockholders on an election of Directors need be taken by written ballot or by electronic transmission unless otherwise required by law. Any vote not required to be taken by ballot or by electronic transmission may be conducted in any manner approved by the Board of Directors prior to the meeting at which such vote is taken.
Voting By Ballot
 
Section 1.07.  .  If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the stockholders, the presiding officer of the meeting or the stockholders present in person or by proxy shall have the power to adjourn any such meeting from time to time until a quorum is present. Notice of any adjourned meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation need not be given if the place, if any, date and hour thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, provided, however, that if the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, a notice of the adjourned meeting, conforming to the requirements of Section 1.03 hereof, shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting.  If after the adjournment a new record date for determination of stockholders entitled to vote is fixed for the adjourned meeting, the Board of Directors shall fix as the record date for determining
Adjournment
 
stockholders entitled to notice of such adjourned meeting the same or an earlier date as that fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting, and shall give notice of the adjourned meeting to each stockholder of record as of the date so fixed for notice of such adjourned meeting.  At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted on the original date of the meeting.
 
Section 1.08.  .  Any stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders may authorize another person or persons to vote at any such meeting and express such vote on behalf of him or her by proxy. A stockholder may authorize a valid proxy by executing a written instrument signed by such stockholder, or by causing his or her signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature, or by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission to the person designated as the holder of the proxy, a proxy solicitation firm or a like authorized agent. No such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after the expiration of three (3) years from the date of such proxy, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. Every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the stockholder executing it, except in those cases where applicable law provides that a proxy shall be irrevocable. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing with the Secretary of the Corporation either an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date. Proxies by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of a writing or transmission created pursuant to this section may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
Proxies
 
Section 1.09.  .  At every meeting of stockholders the presiding officer shall be the Chairman of the Board or, in the event of his or her absence or disability, a presiding officer chosen by the Board of Directors. The Secretary of the Corporation, or in the event of his or her absence or disability, an Assistant Secretary, if any, or if there be no Assistant Secretary, in the absence of the Secretary of the Corporation, an appointee of the presiding officer, shall act as Secretary of the meeting. The order of business and all other matters of procedure at every meeting of stockholders may be determined by such presiding officer. The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the presiding officer. The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate.  Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the presiding officer shall have the right and authority to convene and (for any or no reason) to adjourn the meeting, to prescribe the rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding officer, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such, rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the presiding officer, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding officer of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants.  The presiding officer at any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a matter or business was not properly brought before the meeting and if such presiding officer should so determine, such presiding officer shall so declare to the meeting and any such matter or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted or considered.  Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the presiding officer, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
Organization Procedure
 
Section 1.10.  .
Notice Of Stockholder Business And Nominations
 
(a)
  
Annual Meetings Of Stockholders
.
 
(i)
   
Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (A) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (B) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (C) by any stockholder of the Corporation who (1) was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 1.10 and at the time of the annual meeting, (2) is entitled to vote at the meeting and (3) complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.10.
 
(ii)
  
For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of paragraph (a)(i) of this Section 1.10, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing or by electronic transmission to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day and not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90th) day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than sixty (60) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual meeting and the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. To be in proper form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary of the Corporation must: (A) set forth, as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (1) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, if any, (2) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, if any, as of the date of such notice (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than ten (10) days after the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting to disclose such ownership as of such record date), (3) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, convertible securities, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the stockholder's notice by, or on behalf of, such stockholder and such beneficial owners, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in underlying shares of capital stock of the Corporation, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or such beneficial owner, with respect to securities of the Corporation, (4) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, (5) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies or votes from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination, and (6) any other information relating to such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of Directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Exchange Act"); (B) if the notice relates to any business other than the nomination of a Director that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, set forth (1) a brief description of the business desired to be brought
 
 
before the meeting (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-Laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest of such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, in such business and (2) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder; (C) set forth, as to each person, if any, whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a Director (1) all information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of Directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a Director if elected) and (2) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a Director or executive officer of such registrant; and (D) with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the Board of Directors, include the completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 1.12 of these By-Laws. The foregoing notice requirements of this Section 1.10(a)(ii) shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder with respect to business other than a nomination if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of his, her or its intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting in compliance with applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information, documents, affidavits, or certifications as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent Director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
 
(iii)
 
Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section 1.10 to the contrary, in the event that the number of Directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased effective after the time for which nominations would otherwise be due under Section 1.10(a)(ii) and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 1.10 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
 
(b)
  
Special Meetings Of Stockholders
.
 
Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which Directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that
 
 
Directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who (A) is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 1.10 and at the time of the special meeting, (B) is entitled to vote at the meeting and (C) complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.10. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more Directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by clause (a)(ii) of this Section 1.10 (including the completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 1.12 of these By-Laws and any other information, documents, affidavits, or certifications required by the Corporation) shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such a special meeting and the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder notice as described above.
 
(c)
  
General.
 
(i)
   
Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.10 shall be eligible to serve as Directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.10. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.10, and if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Section 1.10, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.10, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation.  For purposes of this Section 1.10(c), to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
 
(ii)
  
For purposes of this Section 1.10, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14, or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
(iii)
 
Notwithstanding the forgoing provisions of this Section 1.10, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 1.10; provided, however, that any references in these By-Laws to the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit any requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to this Section 1.10 (including paragraphs (a)(i)(C) and (b) hereof), and compliance with paragraphs (a)(i)(C) and (b) of this Section 1.10 shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit
 
other business (other than, as provided in the penultimate sentence of (a)(ii), business other than nominations brought properly under and in compliance with Rule 14a-8 of the Exchange Act, as may be amended from time to time).  Nothing in this Section 1.10 shall be deemed to affect any rights (A) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (B) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, if any, to elect Directors if so provided under any applicable Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation (as defined in the Certificate of Incorporation).
 
Section 1.11. .
Required Vote For Directors
 
(a)
  
Majority Vote
. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this Section 1.11 in the case of a contested election, each Director to be elected by stockholders shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast at any meeting for the election of Directors at which a quorum is present. For purposes of this Section 1.11, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of shares voted "for" exceeds 50% of the number of votes cast with respect to that Director's election. Votes cast shall include votes to withhold authority in each case and exclude abstentions with respect to that Director's election.
 
(b)
  
Mandatory Tender Of Resignation
. If a nominee for Director who is an incumbent Director is not elected and no successor has been elected at such meeting, the Director shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors unless he or she has previously tendered a resignation to become effective upon such nominee's failure to receive the required vote for re-election pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 1.11 at the next meeting at which such nominee would stand for re-election. The Nominating and Governance Committee shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to reject the tendered resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act on the tendered resignation, taking into account the Nominating and Governance Committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission or other broadly disseminated means of communication) its decision regarding the tendered resignation and the rationale behind the decision within ninety (90) days from the date of the certification of the election results. The Nominating and Governance Committee in making its recommendation, and the Board of Directors in making its decision, may each consider any factors or other information that it considers appropriate and relevant. The Director who tenders his or her resignation shall not vote on the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee or the decision of the Board of Directors with respect to his or her resignation. If such incumbent Director's resignation is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such Director shall continue to serve until his or her successor is duly elected, or his or her earlier death, resignation or removal. If a Director's resignation is accepted by the Board of Directors pursuant to this Section 1.11, or if a nominee for Director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent Director, then the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may fill any resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of these By-Laws or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 of these By-Laws.
 
(c)
  
Plurality Vote
. In the event of a contested election of Directors, paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 1.11 shall not apply and Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy and voting for nominees in the election of Directors at any meeting for the election of Directors at which a quorum is present. For purposes of this Section1.11, a contested election shall mean any election of Directors in which the number of candidates for election as Directors exceeds the number of Directors to be elected as of the tenth (10th) day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders of the Corporation.
 
Section 1.12. .
Submission Of Questionnaire, Representation, And Agreement
 
(a)
  
To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a Director of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under
 
Section 1.10(a)(ii) of these By-Laws) to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a completed and signed questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary of the Corporation upon written request) and a signed representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary of the Corporation upon written request) that such person (i) will abide by the requirements of Section 1.11 (b) of these By-Laws, (ii) is not and will not become a party to (A) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a Director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (B) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a Director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (iii) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a Director that has not been disclosed therein, and (iv) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a Director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
 
Section 1.13. .  Preceding any meeting of the stockholders, the Board of Directors shall appoint one (1) or more persons to act as Inspectors of Elections, and may designate one (1) or more alternate inspectors. In the event no inspector or alternate is able to act, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one (1) or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of an inspector, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspector shall:
Inspectors Of Elections
 
(a)
  
ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each;
(b)
  
determine the shares represented at a meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots;
(c)
  
specify the information relied upon to determine the validity of electronic transmissions in accordance with Section 1.08 hereof;
(d)
  
count all votes and ballots;
(e)
  
determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors;
(f)
   
certify his or her determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting, and his or her count of all votes and ballots;
(g)
  
appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist in the performance of the duties of inspector; and
(h)
  
when determining the shares represented and the validity of proxies and ballots, be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes submitted with those proxies, any information provided in accordance with Section 1.08 of these By-Laws, ballots and the regular books and records of the Corporation. The inspector may consider other reliable information for the limited purpose of reconciling proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers or their nominees or a similar person which represent more votes than the holder of a proxy is authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder holds of record. If the inspector considers other reliable information as outlined in this section the inspector, at the time of his or her certification pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, shall specify the precise information considered, the person or persons from whom the information was obtained, when this information was obtained, the means by which the information was obtained, and the basis for the inspector's belief that such information is accurate and reliable.
 
Section 1.14.  .  The date and time for the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter to be voted upon at a stockholder meeting shall be announced at the meeting. The inspector shall be prohibited from accepting any ballots, proxies or votes or any revocations thereof or changes thereto after
Opening And Closing Of Polls
 
 
the closing of the polls, unless the Delaware Court of Chancery upon application by a stockholder shall determine otherwise.
 
Section 1.15.  .  Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, and the ability of the stockholders to consent in writing to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
No Stockholder Action By Written Consent
 
Section 2.01.  .  Except as may otherwise be provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the property, affairs and business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Corporation,
General Powers
 
Section 2.02.  .  Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock, if any, the number of Directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors; provided, however, that the Board of Directors shall at no time consist of fewer than three (3) Directors.
Number Of Directors
 
Section 2.03.  (a)  .  Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03(b), the Directors of the Corporation, subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any class or series of Preferred Stock, shall be classified with respect to the time for which they severally hold office into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, as shall be provided in these By-Laws: one class ("Class I") whose initial term expires at the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders; another class ("Class II") whose initial term expires at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders; and another class ("Class III") whose initial term expires at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, with each class to hold office until its successors are elected and qualified.  Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03(b), at each annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the date of which will be fixed pursuant to these By-Laws, and subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any class or series of Preferred Stock, the successors of the class of Directors whose term expires at that meeting shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following the year of their election.  At each annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders commencing with the annual meeting held in 2010, Directors elected to succeed those Directors whose terms then expire shall be elected at such meeting to hold office for a term expiring at the third annual meeting of stockholders following the date of the amendment and restatement of these By-Laws (the "Declassification Amendment").
Classified Board
 
(b)    Commencing with the third annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders following the Declassification Amendment, the foregoing classification of the Board of Directors shall cease. At the third annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders following the Declassification Amendment and at each annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders thereafter, each nominee for Director shall stand for election to a one-year term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their respective successors shall have been duly elected and qualified, subject to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office.
Elimination of Classified Board.
 
Section 2.04.  .  The Directors shall elect from among the members of the Board a "Chairman of the Board". The Chairman of the Board shall be deemed an officer of the Corporation and shall have such duties and powers as set forth in these By-Laws or as shall otherwise be conferred upon the Chairman of the Board from time to time by the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board may be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall, if present, preside over all meetings of the Stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall by resolution establish a procedure to provide for an acting Chairman of the Board in the event the most recently elected Chairman of the Board is unable to serve or act in that capacity.
The Chairman Of The Board
 
Section 2.05.  .  The annual meeting of the Board of Directors for the purpose of electing officers and for the transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting shall be
Annual And Regular Meetings
 
 
held after the annual meeting of the stockholders and may be held at such places, if any, within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board may from time to time determine, and if so determined notice thereof need not be given. Notice of such annual meeting of the Board of Directors need not be given. The Board of Directors from time to time may by resolution provide for the holding of regular meetings and fix the place (which may be within or without the State of Delaware), if any, and the date and hour of such meetings. Notice of regular meetings need not be given, provided, however, that if the Board of Directors shall fix or change the time or place of any regular meeting, notice of such action shall be mailed promptly, or sent by telephone, including a voice messaging system or other system or technology designed to record and communicate messages, telegraph, facsimile, electronic mail or other means of electronic transmission, to each Director who shall not have been present at the meeting at which such action was taken, addressed to him or her at his or her usual place of business, or shall be delivered to him or her personally. Notice of such action need not be given to any Director who attends the first regular meeting after such action is taken without protesting the lack of notice to him or her, prior to or at the commencement of such meeting, or to any Director who submits a waiver of notice, whether before or after such meeting.
 
Section 2.06.  .  Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer (or, in the event of his or her absence or disability, by the President or any Executive Vice President), or by the Board of Directors pursuant to the following sentence, at such place (within or without the State of Delaware), if any, date and hour as may be specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice of such meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors also may be held whenever called pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called on twenty-four (24) hours' notice, if notice is given to each Director personally or by telephone, including a voice messaging system, or other system or technology designed to record and communicate messages, telegraph, facsimile, electronic mail or other means of electronic transmission, or on five (5) days' notice, if notice is mailed to each Director, addressed to him or her at his or her usual place of business or to such other address as any Director may request by notice to the Secretary. Notice of any special meeting need not be given to any Director who attends such meeting without protesting the lack of notice to him or her, prior to or at the commencement of such meeting, or to any Director who submits a waiver of notice, whether before or after such meeting, and any business may be transacted thereat.
Special Meetings: Notice
 
Section 2.07.  .  At all meetings of the Board of Directors, the presence of at least a majority of the total authorized number of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Except as otherwise required by law, the vote of at least a majority of the Directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
Quorum: Voting
 
Section 2.08.  .  A majority of the Directors present, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn any meeting of the Board of Directors to another time or place, if any. No notice need be given of any adjourned meeting unless the time and place, if any, of the adjourned meeting are not announced at the time of adjournment, in which case notice conforming to the requirements of Section 2.06 of these By-Laws shall be given to each Director.
Adjournment
 
Section 2.09.  .  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and such writing, writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors. Such filing may be in paper form or in electronic form.
Action Without A Meeting
 
Section 2.10.  .  To the extent consistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of meetings of the Board of Directors and for the management of the property, affairs and business of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may deem appropriate. The Directors shall act only as a Board of Directors and the individual Directors shall have no power in their individual capacities unless expressly authorized by the Board of Directors.
Regulations: Manner Of Acting
 
Section 2.11.  .  Members of the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by
Action By Telephonic Communications
 
 
means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this provision shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
 
Section 2.12.  .  Any Director may voluntarily resign at any time by submitting an electronic transmission or by delivering a written notice of resignation, signed by such Director, to the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary of the Corporation. Unless otherwise specified in the notice of resignation, such resignation shall take effect immediately upon its receipt by the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary of the Corporation. This Section 2.12 shall not apply to any tender of resignation required by Section 1.11(b) of these By-Laws, which Section 1.11(b) alone shall govern any such mandatory tender of resignation by a Director. A Director who is required to tender his or her resignation pursuant to Article I, Section 1.11(b) of these By-Laws may instead submit his or her voluntary resignation pursuant to this Section 2.12, provided that: (i) the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary of the Corporation receives the written notice of voluntary resignation no later than five (5) days after the date of the certification of the election results for the meeting of stockholders at which the Director was nominated for re-election; and (ii) such resignation shall take effect immediately upon its receipt by the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary of the Corporation, regardless of any other effective date specified in the notice of resignation.
Voluntary Resignation
 
Section 2.13.  .  Subject to the rights of any holders of any series of Preferred Stock, if any, to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, (i) prior to the third annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders following the Declassification Amendment, the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors may remove any Director or the entire Board of Directors, but only for cause, and (ii) after the third annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders following the Declassification Amendment, the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors may remove any Director or the entire Board of Directors with or without cause.
Removal Of Directors
 
Section 2.14.  .  Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock, if any, to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, if any vacancies shall occur in the Board of Directors, by reason of death, resignation, removal or otherwise, or if the authorized number of Directors shall be increased, the Directors then in office shall continue to act, and such vacancies and newly created Directorships may be filled by a majority of the Directors then in office, although less than a quorum. Any Director filling a vacancy shall be of the same class as that of the Director whose death, resignation, removal or other event caused the vacancy, and any Director filling a newly created Directorship shall be of the class specified by the Board of Directors at the time the newly created Directorships were created. A Director elected to fill a vacancy or a newly created Directorship shall hold office until his or her successor has been duly elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.
Vacancies And Newly Created Directorships
 
Section 2.15.  .  The amount, if any, which each Director shall be entitled to receive as compensation for such Director's services as such shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Compensation
 
Section 2.16.  .  A Director, or a member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors shall, in the performance of such Director's or member's duties, be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Corporation and upon information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Corporation by any of the Corporation's officers or employees, or committees designated by the Board of Directors, or by any other person as to the matters the Director or the member reasonably believes are within such other person's professional or expert competence and who the Director or member reasonably believes or determines has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Corporation.
Reliance On Accounts And Reports, Etc
 
Section 3.01.  .  The Board of Directors may designate from among its members one (1) or more committees of the Board of Directors, each committee to consist of such number of Directors as from time to time may be fixed by the Board of Directors. Any such committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of
Committees
 
 
Directors. Each such committee shall have the powers and duties delegated to it by the Board of Directors, subject to the limitations set forth in applicable Delaware law. The Board of Directors may appoint a Chairman of any committee, who shall preside at meetings of any such committee. The Board of Directors may elect one or more of its members as alternate members of any such committee who may take the place of any absent member or members at any meeting of such committee, upon request of the Chairman of the Board or the Chairman of such committee.
 
Section 3.02.  .  Each committee shall have and may exercise such powers of the Board of Directors as may be provided by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors. No committee shall have the power or authority: to approve or adopt, or recommend to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware to be submitted to the stockholders for approval; or to adopt, amend or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation.  The Corporation elects to be governed by Section 141(c)(2) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
Powers
 
Section 3.03. .  Each such committee may fix its own rules of procedure and may meet at such place (within or without the State of Delaware), at such time and upon such notice, if any, as it shall determine from time to time. Each such committee shall keep minutes of its proceedings and shall report such proceedings to the Board of Directors.
Proceeding
 
Section 3.04. .  Except as may be otherwise provided in the resolution creating such committee, at all meetings of any committee, the presence of members (or alternate members) constituting a majority of the total authorized membership of such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The act of the majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of any such committee may be taken without a meeting, if all members of such committee shall consent to such action in writing or by electronic transmission and such writing, writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form. The members of any such committee shall act only as a committee, and the individual members of such committee shall have no power in their individual capacities unless expressly authorized by the Board of Directors.
Quorum and Manner of Acting
 
Section 3.05. .  Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, members of any committee may participate in a meeting of such committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this provision shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Action by Telephonic Communications
 
Section 3.06.   In the absence or disqualification of a member of any committee, if no alternate member is present to act in his or her stead, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
Absent or Disqualified Members.
 
Section 3.07. .  Any member (and any alternate member) of any committee may resign at any time by delivering a notice of resignation in writing or by electronic transmission, and if in writing signed by such member, to the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. Unless otherwise specified therein, such resignation shall take effect upon delivery.
Resignations
 
Section 3.08. .  Any member (and any alternate member) of any committee may be removed at any time, either for or without cause, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole Board of Directors.
Removal
 
Section 3.09..  If any vacancy shall occur in any committee, by reason of disqualification, death, resignation, removal or otherwise, the remaining members (and any alternate members) shall continue to act, and any such vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors.
 
Vacancies
 
Section 4.01. .  The Board of Directors shall select a Chief Executive Officer to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors who shall (a) supervise the carrying out of policies adopted or approved by the Board of Directors, (b) exercise a general supervision and superintendence over all the business and affairs of the Corporation, and (c) possess such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by these By-Laws, as may from time to time be assigned by the Board of Directors and as may be incident to the office of Chief Executive Officer.
Chief Executive Officer
 
Section 4.02. . The Board of Directors shall appoint a Secretary of the Corporation to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The Secretary of the Corporation shall (a) keep minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors, (b) authenticate records of the Corporation and (c) in general, have such powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by these By-Laws, as may from time to time be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer and as may be incident to the office of Secretary of the Corporation.
Secretary Of The Corporation
 
Section 4.03. .  At any meeting of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors may elect a President, Vice Presidents, a Chief Financial Officer, a Treasurer, Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Secretaries, or such other officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may deem necessary, to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Other officers elected by the Board of Directors shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such officers by or pursuant to authorization of the Board of Directors or by the Chief Executive Officer.
Other Officers Elected By Board Of Directors
 
Section 4.04. .  The Board of Directors may authorize the Corporation to elect or appoint other officers, including Vice Presidents, Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Secretaries and other officers of the Corporation, each of whom shall serve at the pleasure of the Corporation. Officers elected or appointed by the Corporation shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to them by the Corporation.
Other Officers
 
Section 4.05. .  Any officer may be removed for or without cause at any time by the Board of Directors. Any officer may resign at any time by delivering a notice of resignation in writing or by electronic transmission, and if in writing signed by such officer, to the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. Unless otherwise specified therein, such resignation shall take effect upon delivery. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise, shall be filled by or pursuant to authorization of the Board of Directors.
Removal And Resignation; Vacancies
 
Section 4.06. .  The officers of the Corporation shall have such authority and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be specified in these By-Laws, except that in any event each officer shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be required by law.
Authority And Duties Of Officers
 
Section 5.01. . The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the stock of the Corporation shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until each such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation.  Every holder of stock in the Corporation represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation, by the Chairman of the Board, or the Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or the President or Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Such certificate shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may determine, to the extent consistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws.
Certificates of Stock, Uncertificated Shares
 
 
Section 5.02. .  All signatures on the certificate referred to in Section 5.01 of these By-Laws may be in facsimile, engraved or printed form, to the extent permitted by law. In case any officer, transfer
Signatures; Facsimile
 
 
agent or registrar who has signed, or whose facsimile, engraved or printed signature has been placed upon a certificate, shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
 
Section 5.03. .  The Board of Directors may direct that a new certificate be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon delivery to the Corporation of an affidavit of the owner or owners of such certificate, setting forth such allegation. The Corporation may require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his or her legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of any such new certificate.
Lost, Stolen Or Destroyed Certificates
 
Section 5.04.  Upon surrender to the Corporation or the transfer agent of the Corporation of a certificate for shares, duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Corporation shall issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. Within a reasonable time after the transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may prescribe such additional rules and regulations as it may deem appropriate relating to the issue, transfer and registration of shares of the Corporation.
. 
Transfer Of Stock
 
Section 5.05. .  In order to determine the stockholders entitled to notice of any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor fewer than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting. If the Board of Directors so fixes a date, such date shall also be the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting unless the Board of Directors determines, at the time it fixes such record date, that a later date on or before the date of the meeting shall be the date for making such determination. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights of the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
Record Date
 
Section 5.06. .  Prior to due surrender of a certificate for registration of transfer, the Corporation may treat the registered owner as the person exclusively entitled to receive dividends and other distributions, to vote, to receive notice and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers of the owner of the shares represented by such certificate, and the Corporation shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or legal claim to or interest in such shares on the part of any other person, whether or not the Corporation shall have notice of such claim or interests. Whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer if, when the certificates are presented to the Corporation for transfer or uncertificated shares are requested to be transferred, both the transferor and transferee request the Corporation to do so.
Registered Stockholders
 
Section 5.07. .  The Board of Directors may appoint one (1) or more transfer agents and one (1) or more registrars, and may require all certificates representing shares to bear the signature of any such transfer agents or registrars.
Transfer Agent And Registrar
 
Section 6.01.  .  The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding (a "Proceeding"), whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or she is or was or has agreed to become a Director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a Director or officer, of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity, and may indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to such a Proceeding by reason of the fact that he or she is or was or has agreed to become an employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as an employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her or on his or her behalf in connection with such Proceeding and any appeal therefrom, if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful; except that in the case of a Proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor (1) such indemnification shall be limited to expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in the defense or settlement of such Proceeding, and (2) no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Delaware Court of Chancery or the court in which such Proceeding was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Delaware Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper. Notwithstanding the foregoing, but subject to Section 6.05 of these By-Laws, the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify a Director or officer of the Corporation in respect of a Proceeding (or part thereof) instituted by such Director or officer, unless such Proceeding (or part thereof) has been authorized by the Board of Directors. The termination of any Proceeding by judgment, order settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendre or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
Nature Of Indemnity
 
Section 6.02.  .  To the extent that a present or former Director or officer of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any Proceeding referred to in Section 6.01 hereof or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith.
Successful Defense
 
Section 6.03.  .  Any indemnification of a present or former Director or officer of the Corporation under Section 6.01 hereof (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the present or former Director or officer is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 hereof. Any indemnification of a present or former employee or agent of the Corporation under Section 6.01 hereof (unless ordered by a court) may be made by the Corporation upon a determination that indemnification of the present or former employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 hereof. Any such determination shall be made, with respect to a person who is a Director or officer at the time of such determination, (1) by a majority vote of the Directors who are not parties to such Proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (2) by a committee of such Directors designated by majority vote of such Directors, even though less than a quorum, or (3) if there are no such Directors, or if such Directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (4) by the stockholders.
Determination That Indemnification Is Proper
 
Section 6.04.  .  Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a current Director or officer in defending any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative Proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such Proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be
Advancement Of Expenses
 
 
indemnified by the Corporation under this Article VI or otherwise. Such expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by former Directors and officers or other employees and agents may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Corporation deems appropriate. The Board of Directors may authorize the Corporation's counsel to represent such Director, officer, employee or agent in any Proceeding, whether or not the Corporation is a party to such Proceeding.
 
Section 6.05.  .  Any indemnification of a Director or officer of the Corporation under Sections 6.01 and 6.02, or advancement of expenses to a Director or officer under Section 6.04 of these By-Laws, shall be made promptly, and in any event within thirty (30) days, upon the written request of the Director or officer. If a determination by the Corporation that the Director or officer is entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Article VI is required, and the Corporation fails to respond within thirty (30) days to a written request for indemnity, the Corporation shall be deemed to have approved such request. If a claim for indemnification under this Article VI (following final disposition of such Proceeding) or advancement of expenses is not paid in full within thirty (30) days after the Corporation has received a claim therefor by a Director or officer in accordance with this Article VI, such Director or officer shall thereupon (but not before) be entitled to file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim in any court of competent jurisdiction. Such person's costs and expenses incurred in connection with successfully establishing his or her right to indemnification or advancement of expenses, in whole or in part, in any such Proceeding shall also be indemnified by the Corporation.  It shall be a defense to any such Proceeding (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for the advancement of expenses under Section 6.04 of these By-Laws where the required undertaking, if any, has been received by the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 of these By-Laws, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, its independent legal counsel, and its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 of these By-Laws, nor the fact that there has been an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, its independent legal counsel, and its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Procedure For Indemnification Of Or Advancement Of Expenses To Directors And Officers
 
Section 6.06.  .  The foregoing indemnification and advancement provisions shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each Director, officer, employee and agent who serves in any such capacity at any time while these provisions as well as the relevant provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware are in effect and any repeal or modification thereof shall not affect any right or obligation then existing with respect to any state of facts then or previously existing or any Proceeding previously or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts. Such a "contract right" may not be modified retroactively without the consent of such Director, officer, employee or agent. The indemnification and advancement provided by this Article VI shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those persons may be entitled or hereafter become entitled to under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested Directors or otherwise, both as to action in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a Director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Survival; Preservation Of Other Rights
 
Section 6.07.  .  The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was or has agreed to become a Director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a Director or officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person or on such person's behalf in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability under the provisions of this Article VI.
Insurance
 
Section 6.08.  .  If this Article VI or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each Director or officer and may indemnify each employee or agent of the Corporation as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to a Proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
Severability
 
 
administrative or investigative, including a Proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Article VI that shall not have been invalidated and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
 
Section 6.09.  .  The Corporation's obligation, if any, to indemnify or to advance expenses to any person who was or is serving or has agreed to serve at its request as a Director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise shall be reduced by any amount such person has collected or actually collects as indemnification or advancement of expenses from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise.
Other Sources
 
Section 7.01. .  The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located at Corporation Trust Center, 1209 N. Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.
Initial Registered Office
 
Section 7.02.   The Corporation may maintain offices or places of business at such other locations within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from tine to time determine or as the business of the Corporation may require.
Other Offices.
 
Section 8.01. .  Subject to any applicable provisions of law and the Certificate of Incorporation, dividends upon the shares of the Corporation may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors and any such dividend may be paid in cash, property, or shares of the Corporation's capital stock. A member of the Board of Directors, or a member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Corporation and upon such information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Corporation by any of its officers or employees, or committees of the Board of Directors, or by any other person as to matters the Director reasonably believes are within such other person's professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Corporation, as to the value and amount of the assets, liabilities and/or net profits of the Corporation, or any other facts pertinent to the existence and amount of surplus or other funds from which dividends might properly be declared and paid.
Dividends
 
Section 8.02. .  The Board of Directors may authorize, or provide for the authorization of, officers, employees or agents to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Corporation. Any such authorization must be in writing or by electronic transmission and may be general or limited to specific contracts or instruments.
Execution Of Instruments
 
Section 8.03. .  Unless otherwise determined by resolution of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Executive Vice President or any Senior Vice President shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Corporation to attend any meeting of security holders of any entity in which the Corporation may hold securities, and to act, vote (or execute proxies to vote) and exercise in person or by proxy all other rights, powers and privileges incident to the ownership of such securities. Such officers acting on behalf of the Corporation shall have full power and authority to execute any instrument expressing consent to or dissent from any action of any such entity without a meeting. The Board of Directors may by resolution from time to time confer such power and authority upon any other person or persons.
Voting As Stockholder
 
These By-Laws may be amended, altered or repealed by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board of Directors at any special or regular meeting of the Board of Directors if, in the case of such special meeting only, notice of such amendment, alteration or repeal is contained in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting or at any regular or special meeting of the stockholders upon the affirmative vote of the holders of three-fourths () or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors if, in the case of such special meeting only, notice of such amendment,  alteration or repeal is contained in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting.
 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of these By-Laws as in effect from time to time and the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation as in effect from time to time, the provisions of such Certificate of Incorporation shall be controlling.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
THIS INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT (the "") is made and entered into as of                 , 20     between a Delaware corporation (the ""), and                          ("").
Agreement
Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
Company
Indemnitee
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") has determined that it is essential to the Company to retain and attract the most capable persons available; and
Board
 
WHEREAS, the substantial increase in corporate litigation subjects directors and officers to expensive litigation risks at the same time that the availability of and coverage provided by directors' and officers' liability insurance has become uncertain; and
 
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the increased difficulty in attracting and retaining such persons is detrimental to the best interests of the Company's stockholders and that the Company should act to assure such persons of increased certainty of indemnification protections; and
 
WHEREAS, it is now and has been the express policy of the Company to indemnify its directors and officers so as to provide them with the maximum possible protection permitted by law; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company does not regard the protection available to Indemnitee as adequate in the present circumstances, and realizes that Indemnitee may not be willing to serve as a director or officer without adequate protection, and the Company desires Indemnitee to serve in such a capacity; and
 
WHEREAS, highly competent persons have become more reluctant to serve corporations as directors, officers, or in other capacities unless they are provided with adequate indemnification against inordinate risks of claims and actions against them arising out of their service to and activities on behalf of the corporation; and
 
WHEREAS, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware ("") and the By-Laws of the Company (the "By-Laws") expressly provide that the indemnification provisions set forth therein are not exclusive, and thereby contemplate that contracts may be entered into between the Company and its directors and officers with respect to indemnification; and
DGCL
 
WHEREAS, this Agreement is a supplement to and in furtherance of the By-Laws and any resolutions adopted pursuant thereto, and shall not be deemed a substitute therefor, nor to diminish or abrogate any rights of Indemnitee thereunder; and
 
WHEREAS, the uncertainties relating to directors' and officers' liability insurance and to indemnification have increased the difficulty of attracting and retaining such qualified persons to serve as directors and officers of the Company;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of Indemnitee's agreement to serve as a director or officer of the Company after the date hereof, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.             .  The Company hereby agrees to hold harmless and indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law, as such may be amended from time to time.  In furtherance of the foregoing indemnification, and without limiting the generality thereof:
Indemnity of Indemnitee
 
(a)           .  Indemnitee shall be entitled to the rights of indemnification provided in this  if, by reason of his or her Corporate Status (as hereinafter defined), the Indemnitee is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or participant in any Proceeding (as hereinafter defined) other than a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company.  Pursuant to this , Indemnitee shall be indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against all Expenses (as hereinafter defined), including judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her, or on his or her behalf, in connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein, if the Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and with respect to any criminal Proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe the Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful.
Proceedings Other Than Proceedings by or in the Right of the Company
Section l(a)
Section 1(a)
 
(b)           .  Indemnitee shall be entitled to the rights of indemnification provided in this  if, by reason of his or her Corporate Status, the Indemnitee is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or participant in any Proceeding brought by or in the right of the Company.  Pursuant to this , Indemnitee shall be indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee, or on the Indemnitee's behalf, in connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein, if the Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company; provided, however, if applicable law so provides, no indemnification against such Expenses shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter in such Proceeding as to which Indemnitee shall have been adjudged by a court to be liable to the Company unless and to the extent that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or the court in which such Proceeding was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnification; provided further, that in no event shall Indemnitee be indemnified against Expenses not allowable under applicable law.
Proceedings by or in the Right of the Company
Section 1(b)
Section 1(b)
 
(c)           .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of his or her Corporate Status, a party to and is successful, on the merits or otherwise, in any Proceeding, he or she shall be indemnified to the maximum extent permitted by law, as such may be amended from time to time, against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or her or on his or her behalf in connection therewith.  If Indemnitee is not wholly successful in such Proceeding but is successful, on the merits or otherwise, as to one or more but less than all claims, issues or matters in such Proceeding, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or her or on his or her
Indemnification for Expenses of a Party Who is Wholly or Partly Successful
 
 
behalf in connection with or related to each successfully resolved claim, issue or matter to the fullest extent permitted by law.  For purposes of this  and without limitation, the termination of any claim, issue or matter in such a Proceeding by dismissal, with or without prejudice, shall be deemed to be a successful result as to such claim, issue or matter.
Section 1(c)
 
2.             .
Contribution
 
(a)           If Indemnitee shall elect or be required to pay all or any portion of any judgment or settlement in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding in which the Company is jointly liable with Indemnitee (or would be if joined in such action, suit or proceeding), the Company shall contribute the amount of Expenses actually and reasonably incurred and paid or payable by Indemnitee in proportion to the relative benefits received by the Company and all its officers, directors or employees, other than Indemnitee, who are jointly liable with Indemnitee (or would be if joined in such action, suit or proceeding) from the transaction from which such action, suit or proceeding arose; provided, however, that the proportion determined on the basis of relative benefit may, to the extent necessary to conform to law, be further adjusted by reference to the relative fault of the Company and all its officers, directors or employees, other than Indemnitee, who are jointly liable with Indemnitee (or would be if joined in such action, suit or proceeding) in connection with the events that resulted in such Expenses, as well as any other equitable considerations which the Law may require.  The relative fault of the Company and all its officers, directors or employees, other than Indemnitee, who are jointly liable with Indemnitee (or would be if joined in such action, suit or proceeding) shall be determined by reference to, among other things, the degree to which their actions were motivated by intent to gain personal profit or advantage, the degree to which their liability is primary or secondary, and the degree to which their conduct is active or passive.
 
(b)           To the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, if the indemnification provided for in this Agreement is unavailable to Indemnitee, the Company, in lieu of indemnifying Indemnitee, shall contribute to the amount of Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with a claim relating to an indemnifiable event under this Agreement, in such proportion as is deemed fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances of such Proceeding in order to reflect (i) the relative benefits received by the Company and Indemnitee as a result of the event(s) and/or transaction(s) giving cause to such Proceeding; and/or (ii) the relative fault of the Company (and its directors, officers, employees and agents) and Indemnitee in connection with such event(s) and/or transaction(s).
 
3.             .  If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of Expenses, but not, however, for the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which Indemnitee is entitled
Partial Indemnification
.
 
4.             .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of his or her Corporate Status, a witness in any Proceeding to which Indemnitee is not a party, he or she shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or her or on his or her behalf in connection therewith.
Indemnification for Expenses as a Witness
 
5.             .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement (other than ), the Company shall advance all Expenses incurred by or on behalf of Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding (or any part of any Proceeding) not initiated by Indemnitee within thirty (30) days after the receipt by the Company of a statement or statements from Indemnitee requesting such advance or advances from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding.  Such statement or statements shall reasonably evidence the Expenses incurred by Indemnitee. The Indemnitee shall qualify for advances upon the execution and delivery to the Company of this Agreement, which shall constitute an undertaking providing that the Indemnitee undertakes to repay the amounts advanced (without interest) to the extent that it is ultimately determined that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company.  No other form of undertaking shall be required other than the execution of this Agreement.  In accordance with , advances shall include any and all reasonable Expenses incurred pursuing an action to enforce this right of advancement, including Expenses incurred preparing and forwarding statements to the Company to support the advances claimed.
Advancement of Expenses
Section 7(d)
Section 7(d)
 
6.             .  It is the intent of this Agreement to secure for Indemnitee rights of indemnity that are as favorable as may be permitted under the DGCL and public policy of the State of Delaware.  Accordingly, the parties agree that the following procedures and presumptions shall apply in the event of any question as to whether Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement:
Procedures and Presumptions for Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification
 
(a)           .  To obtain indemnification under this Agreement, Indemnitee shall submit to the Company a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification.  The Secretary of the Company shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board in writing of the request.
Written Request
 
(b)           .  Upon such written request by Indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to , a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be made in the specific case by one of the following four methods, which shall be at the election of the Board:  (1) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, as defined herein, even though less than a quorum, or by a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, even though less than a quorum, (2) if there are no Disinterested Directors or if the Disinterested Directors so direct, by Independent Counsel, as defined herein, in a written opinion to the Board, a copy of which shall be delivered to the Indemnitee, or (3) if so directed by the Board, by the stockholders of the Company; provided, however, in the event of a Potential Change of Control, as defined herein, or a Change of Control, as defined below, or within two (2) months after a Change of Control, Independent Counsel shall make such determination rather than the Board.
Method of Determination
Section 6(a)
 
(c)           .  A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to occur, after the date of this Agreement, upon the earliest of any of the following events:
Change in Control
 
(i)  Acquisition of Stock by Third Party.  Any Person (as defined below) is or becomes the Beneficial Owner (as defined below), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing twenty percent (20%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities;
 
(ii)  Change in Board.  During any period of two (2) consecutive years (not including any period prior to the execution of this Agreement), individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board, and any new director (other than a director designated by a person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in this ), whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a least a majority of the members of the Board;
Section 6(c)
 
(iii)  Corporate Transactions.  The effective date of a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other entity, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation and with the power to elect at least a majority of the governing board of such surviving entity;
 
(iv)  Liquidation.  The approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets; and
 
(v)  Other Events.  Regardless whether the Company is then subject to such a reporting requirement, there occurs any other event of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A (or a response to any similar item on any similar schedule or form) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").
 
For purposes of this Section 6(c), the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
(A)          "Person" shallmean any natural person, corporation, partnership, firm, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, governmental authority or other entity; provided, however, that Person shall exclude (i) the Company, (ii) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, and (iii) any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company.
 
(B)          "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning given to such term in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act.
 
(d)           .  If the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to  hereof, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Disinterested Directors (or a committee thereof) as provided in  or if there are no Disinterested Directors, by the Board.  Indemnitee may, within ten (10) days after such written notice of selection shall have been given, deliver to the Company a written objection to such selection; provided, however, that such objection may be asserted only on the ground that the Independent Counsel so selected does not meet the requirements of  of this Agreement, and the objection shall set forth with particularity the factual basis of such assertion.  Absent a proper and timely objection, the person so selected shall act as Independent Counsel.  If a written objection is made and substantiated, the Independent Counsel selected may not serve as Independent Counsel unless and until such objection is withdrawn or a court has determined that such objection is without merit.  If, within twenty (20) days after submission by Indemnitee of a written request for indemnification pursuant to  hereof, no Independent Counsel shall have been selected and not objected to, either the Company or Indemnitee may petition the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or other court of competent jurisdiction for resolution of any objection which shall have been made by the Indemnitee to the Company's selection of Independent Counsel and/or for the appointment as Independent Counsel of a person selected by the court, and the person with respect to whom all objections are so resolved or the person so appointed shall act as Independent Counsel under  hereof.  The Company shall pay any and all reasonable fees and expenses of Independent Counsel incurred by such Independent Counsel in connection with acting pursuant to  hereof.
Selection of Independent Counsel
Section 6(b)
Section 6(b)
Section 14(e)
Section 6(a)
Section 6(b)
Section 6(b)
 
(e)           .  In making a determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification hereunder, the persons or entity making such determination shall presume that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement and that Indemnitee has at all times acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company.  Anyone, including the Company, seeking to overcome this presumption shall have the burden of proof.  Neither the failure of the Company (including by its directors or independent legal counsel) to have made a determination of entitlement to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement prior to the commencement of any action, nor an actual determination by the Company (including by its directors or independent legal counsel) that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Presumptions in Favor of Indemnitee
 
(f)            .  If the persons or entity empowered or selected to determine whether Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification shall not have made a determination within thirty (30) days after receipt by the Company of the request therefor, the requisite determination of entitlement to indemnification shall be deemed to have been made and Indemnitee shall be entitled to such indemnification absent: (i) a misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make Indemnitee's statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (ii) a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law; provided, however, that such 30-day period may be extended for a reasonable time if the persons or entity making such determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification in good faith requires such additional time to obtain or evaluate documentation and/or information relating thereto;
Prompt Determination of Entitlement
 
(g).  Indemnitee shall cooperate with the persons or entity making such determination with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification, including providing to such persons or entity upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information which is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is reasonably available to Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination.  Any Independent Counsel, member of the Board or stockholder of the Company shall act reasonably and in good faith in making a determination regarding the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification under this Agreement.
          
Cooperation
 
(h)           .  The termination of any Proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not of itself adversely affect the right of Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company or, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
Termination of Proceeding
 
7.             .
Remedies of Indemnitee
 
(a)           In the event that: (i) a determination is made pursuant to this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement; (ii) advancement of Expenses is not timely made pursuant to this Agreement; (iii) no determination of entitlement to indemnification is made pursuant to this Agreement within thirty (30)days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification (as such period may be extended pursuant to ); (iv) payment of indemnification is not made pursuant to this Agreement within thirty (30) days after receipt by the Company of a written request; or (v) payment of indemnification is not made within thirty (30) days after a determination has been made that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification or such determination is deemed to have been made pursuant to this Agreement, Indemnitee shall be entitled to an adjudication in an appropriate court of the State of Delaware, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction, of Indemnitee's entitlement to such indemnification or advancement of Expenses.
Section 6(f)
 
(b)           In the event that a determination has been made pursuant to this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification, any judicial proceeding regarding
 
 
an Indemnitee's entitlement shall be conducted as a de novo trial on the merits, and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of the prior adverse determination.
 
(c)           If a determination shall have been made pursuant to of this Agreement that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this , absent (i) a misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make Indemnitee's statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (ii) a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law.
Section 6
Section 7
 
(d)           The Company shall, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this that the procedures and presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Agreement.  It is the intent of the Company that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Indemnitee not be required to incur legal fees or other Expenses associated with the interpretation, enforcement or defense of Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement by litigation or otherwise because the cost and expense thereof would substantially detract from the benefits intended to be extended to the Indemnitee hereunder.  The Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, indemnify Indemnitee against any and all Expenses and, if requested by Indemnitee, shall (within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor) advance, to the extent not prohibited by law, such Expenses to Indemnitee, which are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any action brought by Indemnitee for indemnification or advancement of Expenses from the Company under this Agreement or under any directors' and officers' liability insurance policies maintained by the Company if, in the case of indemnification, Indemnitee is wholly successful on the underlying claims; if Indemnitee is not wholly successful on the underlying claims, then such indemnification shall be only to the extent Indemnitee is successful on such underlying claims or otherwise as permitted by law, whichever is greater.
Section 7
 
(e)           Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, no determination as to entitlement of Indemnitee to indemnification under this Agreement shall be required to be made prior to the final disposition of the Proceeding.
 
8.             .
Non-Exclusivity; Survival of Rights; Insurance; Subrogation
 
(a)           The rights of indemnification as provided by this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which Indemnitee may at any time be entitled under applicable law, the certificate of incorporation of the Company, the By-Laws, any agreement, a vote of stockholders, a resolution of directors or otherwise.  No amendment, alteration or repeal of this Agreement or of any provision hereof shall limit or restrict any right of Indemnitee under this Agreement in respect of any action taken or omitted by such Indemnitee in his or her Corporate Status prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal.  To the extent that a change in the DGCL, whether by statute or judicial decision, permits greater indemnification than would be afforded currently under the By-Laws and this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy by this Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by such change.  No right or remedy herein conferred is intended to be exclusive of any other right
 
 
or remedy, and every other right and remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise.  The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other right or remedy.
 
(b)           To the extent the Company maintains an insurance policy or policies providing liability insurance for directors, officers, employees, or agents or fiduciaries of the Company or of an Enterprise that such person serves at the request of the Company, Indemnitee shall be covered by such policy or policies with no less coverage than any other individual receives under the Company's policy or policies.  The Company shall maintain such insurance for Indemnitee for two years post-termination at the same level as it then maintains for its then current directors and officers.  The Company shall give prompt notice of the commencement of a Proceeding to the insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the respective policies.  The Company shall thereafter take reasonable action to cause such insurers to pay, on behalf of the Indemnitee, all amounts payable as a result of such Proceeding in accordance with the terms of such policies.
 
(c)           In the event of any payment under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Company to bring suit to enforce such rights.
 
(d)           The Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment of amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder to the extent that Indemnitee has otherwise actually received such payment under any insurance policy, contract, agreement or otherwise.  The Company's obligation to indemnify or advance Expenses hereunder to Indemnitee who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of an Enterprise shall be reduced by any amount Indemnitee has actually received as indemnification or advancement of expenses from such Enterprise.
 
9.             . Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement (other than Section 7(d) hereof), the Company shall not be obligated under this Agreement to make any indemnification payment in connection with any claim made against Indemnitee:
Exception to Right of Indemnification
 
(a)           for an accounting of profits made from the purchase and sale (or sale and purchase) by Indemnitee of securities of the Company or any Enterprise within the meaning of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or similar provisions of state statutory law or common law;
 
(b)           where it is determined by final adjudication that the liability imposed upon Indemnitee was the result of Indemnitee's actual improper receipt of a personal benefit or profit or of Indemnitee's deliberate dishonesty to the Company; or
 
(c)           in connection with any Proceeding (or any part of any Proceeding) initiated by Indemnitee, including any Proceeding (or any part of any Proceeding) initiated by
 
 
Indemnitee against the Company or its directors, officers, employees or other indemnitees, unless: (i) the Board authorized the Proceeding, (ii) the Company provides the indemnification, in its sole discretion, pursuant to the powers vested in the Company under applicable law, or (iii) as provided in the By-Laws.
 
10..  In the event the Company shall be obligated hereunder to pay an Indemnitee's Expenses, the Company shall be entitled to assume the defense of such Proceeding, with counsel approved by Indemnitee (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld).  The Company and Indemnitee shall be jointly represented until such time as Indemnitee reasonably concludes that there is a conflict of interest between the Company and Indemnitee in the conduct of any such defense.  Notwithstanding this provision, Indemnitee retains the right to employ separate counsel, wholly at Indemnitee's own expense, in any such proceeding in addition to or in place of any counsel retained by the Company on behalf of Indemnitee.
         
Joint Representation and Selection of Counsel
 
11..  All agreements and obligations of the Company contained herein, including advancement of Expenses, shall continue past Indemnitee's time of service to the Company or an Enterprise, and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors (including any direct or indirect successor by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company), assigns, spouses, heirs, executors and personal and legal representatives.
         
Duration of Agreement
 
12.          .  To the extent requested by Indemnitee and approved by the Board, the Company may at any time and from time to time provide security to Indemnitee for the Company's obligations hereunder through an irrevocable bank line of credit, funded trust or other collateral.  Any such security, once provided to Indemnitee, may not be revoked or released without the prior written consent of the Indemnitee.  In the event of a Potential Change in Control, as defined herein, or a Change in Control, the Company shall, promptly upon written request by Indemnitee, create a Trust for the benefit of Indemnitee and from time to time, upon written request by or on behalf of Indemnitee to the Company, shall fund such Trust in an amount, as set forth in such request, sufficient to satisfy any and all Expenses reasonably anticipated at the time of each such request to be incurred in connection with an indemnifiable event.  The terms of the Trust shall provide that upon a Change in Control: (i) the Trust shall not be revoked or the principal thereof invaded, without the written consent of Indemnitee; (ii) the Trustee shall advance, within ten (10) business days of a request by Indemnitee, any and all Expenses to Indemnitee, not advanced directly by the Company to Indemnitee (and Indemnitee hereby agrees to reimburse the Trust under the circumstances under which Indemnitee would be required to reimburse the Company under this Agreement); (iii) the Trust shall continue to be funded by the Company in accordance with the funding obligation set forth above; (iv) the Trustee shall promptly pay to Indemnitee all amounts for which Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise; and (v) all unexpended funds in such Trust shall revert to the Company upon a final determination that Indemnitee has been fully indemnified under the terms of this Agreement.  Nothing in this shall relieve the Company of any of its obligations under this Agreement.  A Potential Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if: (i) the Company enters into an agreement or arrangement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control; (ii) the Company
Security
Section 12
 
 
or any person publicly announces an intention to take or to begin taking actions which if completed would constitute a Change in Control; or (iii) the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control has occurred.
 
13.          .
Enforcement
 
(a)           The Company expressly confirms and agrees that it has entered into this Agreement and assumes the obligations imposed on it hereby in order to induce Indemnitee to serve as an officer or director of the Company, and the Company acknowledges that Indemnitee is relying upon this Agreement in serving as an officer or director of the Company.
 
(b)           This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral, written and implied, between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.
 
14.          .  For purposes of this Agreement:
Definitions
 
(a)           "" describes the status of a person who is or was a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company or of any other Enterprise that such person is or was serving at the request of the Company.  Indemnitee's service to an Enterprise at the request of the Company is expressly deemed to be included within an Indemnitee's Corporate Status.  Indemnitee's service as a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary to any of the following Enterprises shall be deemed to be at the express written request of the Company:  any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company, any entity for which the Company accounts on the equity method, any special purpose entity or variable interest entity of the Company, and any investment company as to which an affiliate of the Company serves as investment advisor.
Corporate Status
 
(b)           "" means a director of the Company who is not and was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by Indemnitee.
Disinterested Director
 
(c)           "" shall mean the Company and any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, direct or indirect subsidiary, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise that Indemnitee is or was serving at the express written request of the Company as a director, officer, trustee, partner, managing member, employee, agent or fiduciary.  Enterprise shall also include, but is not limited to, entities for which the Company accounts on the equity method, special purpose entities, variable interest entities, and investment companies as to which an affiliate of the Company serves as investment advisor.
Enterprise
 
(d)           "" shall include all reasonable attorneys' fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees, appeal costs and all other disbursements or expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with prosecuting, defending, preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating, participating, or being or
Expenses
 
 
preparing to be a witness in a Proceeding.  Expenses shall also include judgments, penalties or fines against Indemnitee and amounts paid in settlement by Indemnitee (only if such settlement is approved by the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) of any claim relating to a Proceeding. In addition, Expenses shall include the incremental personal income taxes (whether federal, state, local or foreign) actually paid or payable by Indemnitee, together with any interest or penalties thereon, by virtue of the receipt of indemnification payments under this Agreement.
 
(e)           "" means a law firm, or a member of a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent:  (i) the Company or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party (other than with respect to matters concerning Indemnitee under this Agreement, or of other indemnitees under similar indemnification agreements); or (ii) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person (i) who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement or (ii) who, or whose firm, represented a third party that was adverse to the Company, or any affiliate of the Company, or Indemnitee within the preceding twelve months.  The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees and expenses of the Independent Counsel.
Independent Counsel
 
(f)            "" includes any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, claim, counterclaim, cross claim, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, investigation, inquiry, administrative hearing or any other actual, threatened or completed proceeding, whether brought by or in the right of the Company or otherwise and whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, in which Indemnitee was, is or will be involved as a party or otherwise, by reason of the fact of Indemnitee's past or present Corporate Status, by reason of any action taken by him or her or of any inaction on his or her part while acting as an officer or director of the Company or any Enterprise, or by reason of the fact that he or she is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of another Enterprise, in each case whether or not he or she is acting or serving in any such capacity at the time any liability or expense is incurred for which indemnification can be provided under this Agreement, including one pending on or before the date of this Agreement, but excluding one initiated by an Indemnitee pursuant to of this Agreement to enforce his or her rights under this Agreement.
Proceeding
Section 7
 
15.          .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision hereof shall in no way affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this Agreement is intended to confer upon Indemnitee indemnification and advancement rights to the fullest extent permitted by applicable laws.  In the event any provision hereof conflicts with any applicable law, such provision shall be deemed modified, consistent with the aforementioned intent, to the extent necessary to resolve such conflict.
Severability
 
16.          .  No supplement, modification, termination or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto.  No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute
Modification and Waiver
 
 
a waiver of any other provisions hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
 
17.          .  Indemnitee agrees promptly to notify the Company in writing upon being served with or otherwise receiving any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other document relating to any Proceeding or matter which may be subject to indemnification and advancement covered hereunder.  The failure to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of any obligation which it may have to Indemnitee under this Agreement or otherwise, unless and only to the extent that such failure or delay materially prejudices the Company.  All communications given or made pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed effectively given:  (a) upon personal delivery to the party to be notified, (b) when sent by confirmed electronic mail or facsimile if sent during normal business hours of the recipient, and if not so confirmed, then on the next business day, (c) five (5) days after having been sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (d) one (1) day after deposit with a nationally recognized overnight courier, specifying next day delivery, with written verification of receipt.  All communications shall be sent to Indemnitee at the address set forth below Indemnitee's signature hereto, and to the Company at:
Notice
 
                                                Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
                                                55 Ameriprise Financial Center
                                                Minneapolis, MN  55474                                                 Attention: General Counsel
 
or to such other address as may have been furnished to Indemnitee by the Company or to the Company by Indemnitee, as the case may be.
 
18.          .  This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.  This Agreement may also be executed and delivered by facsimile signature and in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
19.          .  The headings of the paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction thereof.
Headings
 
20.          .  Nothing contained herein shall be construed as giving Indemnitee, if an employee of the Company or any Enterprise, any right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Enterprise.
No Construction as Employment Agreement
 
21.          .  This Agreement and the legal relations among the parties shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the laws that might otherwise govern under applicable principles of conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed on the day and year first above written.
 
 
 


