FILE:NOV/NOV-8K-20040917162852.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On August 12, 2004, National-Oilwell, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("National-Oilwell"), and Varco International, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Varco"), announced a merger of equals transaction pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of August 11, 2004 (the "Merger Agreement"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Varco will merge with and into National-Oilwell (the "Merger"). On September 13, 2004, the board of directors of National-Oilwell and Varco each approved an amendment and restatement of the Merger Agreement (the "Amended and Restated Merger Agreement") to provide for (i) an amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of National-Oilwell to eliminate the class of special voting stock of National-Oilwell, and (ii) an acknowledgment of the adoption of the National Oilwell Varco Long-Term Incentive Plan.
     The foregoing description of the Merger and the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
     2.1 Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, effective as of August 11, 2004, by and between National-Oilwell, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and Varco International, Inc., a Delaware corporation (incorporated by reference to Annex A to the document forming a part of the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-119071)).
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


