FILE:NOV/NOV-8K-20051202122952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 5.04.
TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF TRADING UNDER REGISTRANT'S EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
On December 2, 2005, National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (the "Company") sent a notice to its directors and executive officers notifying them of a blackout period with respect to the Varco International, Inc. 401(k)/Profit Sharing Plan. The Company provided the notice to the directors and executive officers in accordance with Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of Regulation BTR. A copy of the notice is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
December 2, 2005
The purpose of this notice is to inform you that the Varco International, Inc. 401(k)/Profit Sharing Plan (the "401(k) Plan") will be entering a blackout period due to a Trustee and Recordkeeper conversion from Merrill Lynch Retirement Services to Wachovia Bank, National Association, as trustee and recordkeeper.
As a result of this transition, there will be a period of time when certain participants in the 401(k) Plan will be unable to access their accounts to direct or diversify their investments or obtain a loan or distribution from the plan. As a director or executive officer of National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (the "Company"), this blackout of the 401(k) Plan has a direct impact on your ability to trade
National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Common Stock.
Under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules published pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (P.L. 107-24), which apply to 401(k) plan blackout periods, during "any period of more than three consecutive business days during which the ability to purchase, sell or otherwise acquire or transfer an interest in any equity security of such issuer held in an individual account is temporarily suspended by the issuer or by a fiduciary of the plan," corporate insiders may no longer exercise stock options or trade employer securities held outside of the 401(k) Plan. Specifically, the insider trading provision prohibits corporate insiders from directly or indirectly purchasing, selling, acquiring or transferring any equity or derivative security of a publicly traded company that they acquired in connection with service or employment as a director or executive officer of that company. All shares held by you will be presumed to be acquired in connection with your service as a director or executive officer, unless you can establish by specific identification that the transaction was not of stock acquired in connection with your service.
Key Dates for Prohibition from Trading National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Common Stock:
*
The trading prohibition related to the 401(k) Plan blackout period is in addition to and will overlap the quarterly trading prohibition related to the public release of financial results, which will end on the second business day after the financial results are released for 2005.
Violations of the insider trading prohibition will allow an issuer or a security holder acting on behalf of an issuer to bring an action to recover the profits realized by the director or executive officer. In addition, the SEC may bring an action, including civil injunction proceedings, cease-and-desist actions, civil penalties and all other remedies available to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including, in some cases, criminal penalties.
While we anticipate a smooth transition, you will be notified in the unlikely event that an extension of the blackout is needed. Please contact me directly with any questions you may have regarding this notice.
Attachment.
 
Due to the merger of National-Oilwell and Varco International, the Varco International, Inc. 401(k)/Profit Sharing Plan and the National Oilwell Retirement and Thrift Plan will be merging effective January 1, 2006. As a result, the Plan will be converting to Wachovia Retirement Services for daily recordkeeping. Additionally, the name of the merged Plan will be the National Oilwell Varco, Inc. 401(k) and Retirement Savings Plan.
You don't need to do anything during this transition.
There will be a brief period of time during which you will be temporarily unable to make changes to your account or conduct any transactions. These restrictions are necessary in order to complete the transition. However, once the transition is complete, on January 25, 2006, you will have full access to your account and will be able to take advantage of Wachovia's extensive resources, financial planning tools and investment services.
Before the Transition: Key Dates
The transition period for the Plan will begin on December 27, 2005 and will end on January 25, 2006. You will receive another notice to advise you of the end of the transition. Plan participants who are no longer employed by National Oilwell Varco, you may only request distributions and make investment changes.
If you want to make any of the following changes:
You must submit your request by 3:00 p.m. CT on January 3, 2006 by calling or by visiting their website at . If you do not make any changes prior to the cut-off, your contributions will continue at the same deferral percentage. Starting January 13, 2006, Wachovia will begin receiving all current and future payroll contributions.
Merrill Lynch at 1-800-228-401k
www.benefits.ml.com
During the Transition
The investment options and your current investment elections will substantially remain as they are today. Only two investment options will be "mapped" or transferred to a similar investment type.
Your current investment elections at Merrill Lynch as of 3:00p.m. ET on January 3, 2006 will automatically transfer to Wachovia.
(See investment information section on the next page).
 
Investment Information
Your account balance and investment elections for future contributions will either remain the same or will be transferred to a similar investment at Wachovia as shown in the chart below.
Note: The two investments in below are transferring to a similar or like investment.
bold
 
INVESTMENTS:
 
Investment Information (continued)
In addition to the investment line-up shown on the previous page, you will also be able to choose from the following new investment options once the transition is complete:
 
After the Transition
Once the transition is completed, you will have full access to your account balance to make investment changes through Wachovia's call center and website. Call center representatives will be available to help you weekdays from 6:00 a.m.  9:00 p.m. CT.
The prospectus for a mutual fund contains complete information, including charges and expenses. You may obtain a copy of the prospectus directly from the Wachovia website or call center and you should read it carefully before investing.
INVESTMENTS:
 
Plan Enhancements
Along with the changes discussed in the previous pages, several plan enhancements will be made during the transition and will take effect on January 1, 2006. The following chart provides details on these changes:
 


