FILE:NOV/NOV-8K-20070823113039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 Other Events
On August 22, 2007, National Oilwell Varco, Inc. announced that the board of directors declared a 2-for-1 split of the Company's common stock in the form of a stock dividend, payable on September 28, 2007 to shareholders of record as of September 7, 2007. A copy of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)
Exhibits
The following exhibit is provided as part of the information furnished under Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
HOUSTON, TX, August 22, 2007 National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (NYSE: NOV) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a 2-for-1 stock split to be effected in the form of a stock dividend. Each stockholder of record on September 7, 2007 will be issued one additional share of the Company's common stock for each issued and outstanding share owned as of that date. The distribution will be made on September 28, 2007.
Pete Miller, Chairman, President and CEO of National Oilwell Varco, stated "We are pleased to announce this stock split. We believe this stock split will increase liquidity in our stock and improve investment opportunities for our investors. This action is a direct indication of our confidence in our strategy and outlook going forward."
National Oilwell Varco is a worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and sale of equipment and components used in oil and gas drilling and production operations, the provision of oilfield services, and supply chain integration services to the upstream oil and gas industry.
Statements made in this press release that are forward-looking in nature are intended to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and may involve risks and uncertainties. These statements may differ materially from actual future events or results. Readers are referred to documents filed by National Oilwell Varco with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, which identify significant risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.


