FILE:NOV/NOV-8K-20120224084254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 21, 2012, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (the "Company") unanimously approved and adopted amendments to each of the National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan and the National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan, whereby a clawback type provision was added to each plan that allows the Committee to terminate any awards made under those plans to recipients of such awards that have engaged in material misconduct, as further detailed in those plans. For purposes of this clawback provision, material misconduct includes conduct adversely affecting the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or conduct which constitutes fraud or theft of Company assets, any of which require the Company to make a restatement of its reported financial statements.
The foregoing description of the amendments to each of the National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan and the National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of each of the National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan and the National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan, as amended, which are attached to this Current Report as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
SECTION 1. .
Purpose of the Plan
The National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is intended to promote the interests of National Oilwell Varco, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), by encouraging Employees, Consultants and Directors to acquire or increase their equity interest in the Company and to provide a means whereby they may develop a sense of proprietorship and personal involvement in the development and financial success of the Company, and to encourage them to remain with and devote their best efforts to the business of the Company, thereby advancing the interests of the Company and its stockholders. The Plan is also contemplated to enhance the ability of the Company and its Subsidiaries to attract and retain the services of individuals who are essential for the growth and profitability of the Company.
SECTION 2. .
Definitions
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
"Award" shall mean an Option, Restricted Stock, Performance Award, Phantom Share, Stock Payment, or SAR.
"Award Agreement" shall mean any written or electronic agreement, contract, instrument or document evidencing any Award, which may, but need not, be executed or acknowledged by a Participant.
"Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company, as constituted from time to time.
"Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
"Committee" shall mean the administrator of the Plan in accordance with Section 3, and shall include reference to the Compensation Committee of the Board (or any other committee of the Board designated, from time to time, by the Board to act as the Committee under the Plan), the Board or subcommittee, as applicable.
"Consultant" shall mean any individual who is not an Employee or a member of the Board and who provides consulting, advisory or other similar services to the Company or a Subsidiary.
"Director" shall mean any member of the Board who is not an Employee.
"Employee" shall mean any employee of the Company or a Subsidiary or a parent corporation.
"Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Fair Market Value" shall mean, as of any applicable date, the last reported sales price for a Share on the New York Stock Exchange (or such other national securities exchange which constitutes the principal trading market for the Shares) for the applicable date as reported by such reporting service approved by the Committee; provided, however, that if Shares shall not have been quoted or traded on such applicable date, Fair Market Value shall be determined based on the next preceding date on which they were quoted or traded, or, if deemed appropriate by the Committee, in such other manner as it may determine to be appropriate. In the event the Shares are not publicly traded at the time a determination of its Fair Market Value is required to be made hereunder, the determination of Fair Market Value shall be made in good faith by the Committee.
"Incentive Stock Option" or "ISO" shall mean an option granted under Section 6(a) of the Plan that is intended to qualify as an "incentive stock option" under Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
"Non-Qualified Stock Option" or "NQO" shall mean an option granted under Section 6(a) of the Plan that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
"Option" shall mean an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
"Participant" shall mean any Employee, Consultant or Director granted an Award under the Plan.
"Performance Award" shall mean any right granted under Section 6(c) of the Plan.
"Performance Criteria" shall mean the following business criteria with respect to the Company, any Subsidiary or any division, operating unit or product line: net earnings (either before or after interest, taxes, depreciation and/or amortization), sales, revenue, net income (either before or after taxes), operating earnings, cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow and free cash flow), cash flow return on capital, return on net assets, return on stockholders' equity, return on assets, return on capital, stockholder returns, return on sales, gross or net profit margin, customer or sales channel revenue or profitability, productivity, expense, margins, cost reductions, controls or savings, operating efficiency, customer satisfaction, working capital, strategic initiatives, economic value added, earnings per share, earnings per share from operations, price per share of stock, and market share, any of which may be measured either in absolute terms or as compared to any incremental increase or as compared to results of a peer group. The Committee will determine whether the foregoing criteria will be computed without recognition of (i) unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements or (ii) changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles.
"Person" shall mean individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or political subdivision thereof or other entity.
"Phantom Shares" shall mean an Award of the right to receive Shares, cash equal to the Fair Market Value of such Shares or any combination thereof, in the Committee's discretion, which is granted pursuant to Section 6(d) of the Plan.
 
"Qualifying Event" shall mean a "change of control" of the Company or an Affiliate, as determined by the Committee, or, with respect to de minimus amounts, as determined in good faith by the Committee, such unusual circumstance as the Committee may determine from time to time in its sole discretion.
"Restricted Period" shall mean the period established by the Committee with respect to an Award during which the Award either remains subject to forfeiture, is subject to restrictions or is not exercisable by the Participant.
"Restricted Stock" shall mean any Share, prior to the lapse of restrictions thereon, granted under Section 6(b) of the Plan.
"Rule 16b-3" shall mean Rule 16b-3 promulgated by the SEC under the Exchange Act, or any successor rule or regulation thereto as in effect from time to time.
"SAR" shall mean a stock appreciation right granted under Section 6(e) of the Plan that entitles the holder to receive the excess of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the relevant date over the exercise price of such SAR, with the excess paid in cash and/or in Shares in the discretion of the Committee.
"SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto.
"Shares" or "Common Shares" or "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock of the Company, $0.01 par value, and such other securities or property as may become the subject of Awards under the Plan.
"Stock Payment" means (a) a payment in the form of Shares, or (b) an option or other right to purchase Shares, as part of any bonus, deferred compensation or other arrangement, made in lieu of all or any portion of the compensation, granted pursuant to Section 6(f) of the Plan.
"Subsidiary" shall mean any entity (whether a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity) in which the Company owns a majority of the voting power of the entity directly or indirectly, except with respect to the grant of an ISO the term Subsidiary shall mean any "subsidiary corporation" of the Company as defined in Section 424 of the Code.
SECTION 3..
Administration
(a) .
The Committee
The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board (or any other committee of the Board designated, from time to time, by the Board to act as the Committee under the Plan). Notwithstanding the foregoing, Awards made to Directors shall be administered by the Board. The term "Committee" as used herein shall refer to the Compensation Committee (or other Board committee), the Board, or the subcommittee (as defined in paragraph (c) of this Section 3), as applicable.
 
(b) .
Committee Powers
A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of the members of the Committee who are present at any meeting thereof at which a quorum is present, or acts unanimously approved by the members of the Committee in writing, shall be the acts of the Committee. Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, and in addition to other express powers and authorizations conferred on the Committee by the Plan, the Committee shall have full power and authority to: (i) designate Participants; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to a Participant; (iii) determine the number of Shares to be covered by, or with respect to which payments, rights, or other matters are to be calculated in connection with, Awards; (iv) determine the terms and conditions of any Award; (v) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances Awards may be settled or exercised in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property, or canceled, forfeited, or suspended and the method or methods by which Awards may be settled, exercised, canceled, forfeited, or suspended; (vi) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to an Award made under the Plan; (vii) establish, amend, suspend, or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; and (viii) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, all designations, determinations, interpretations, and other decisions under or with respect to the Plan or any Award shall be within the sole discretion of the Committee, may be made at any time and shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all Persons, including the Company, any Subsidiary, any Participant, any holder or beneficiary of any Award, any stockholder and any other Person. However, the Committee's authority to waive or accelerate the Restricted Period with respect to an Award shall be limited to a Qualifying Event.
(c) .
Delegation to a Subcommittee
The Committee may, subject to any applicable law, regulatory, securities exchange or other similar restrictions, delegate to one or more members of the Board or officers of the Company (the "subcommittee"), the authority to administer the Plan as to Awards to Employees and Consultants who are not subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. The Committee may impose such limitations and restrictions, in addition to any required restrictions/limitations, as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion. Any grant made pursuant to such a delegation shall be subject to all of the provisions of the Plan concerning this type of Award.
(d) .
Modification of Awards
At any time after grant of an Award, the Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion and subject to whatever terms and conditions it selects:
(1) accelerate the period during which the Award vests or becomes exercisable or payable; and
(2) accelerate the time when applicable restrictions or risk of forfeiture or repurchase lapses; and
(3) extend the period during which the Award may be exercised or paid; and
(4) extend the term of any Award (other than the maximum 10 year term);
 
provided, that such action may be taken only in compliance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code with respect to an Award that is intended to be performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
SECTION 4. .
Shares Available for Awards
(a) .
Shares Available
Subject to adjustment as provided below, the number of Shares that may be issued with respect to Awards granted under the Plan shall be 25,500,000. If an Award is forfeited or otherwise lapses, expires, terminates or is canceled without the actual delivery of Shares or is settled in cash, then the Shares covered by such Award, to the extent of such forfeiture, expiration, lapse, termination or cancellation, shall again be Shares that may be issued with respect to Awards granted under the Plan. Shares tendered or withheld by the Company to satisfy tax withholding, exercise price or other payment obligations shall be available for issuance under future Awards, subject to the overall limitation provided in the first sentence above. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no more than 5% of the Shares that may be issued under the Plan may be issued pursuant to Stock Payments.
(b) .
Sources of Shares Deliverable Under Awards
Any Shares delivered pursuant to an Award may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Shares or of treasury Shares.
(c) .
Adjustments
In the event of a stock dividend or stock split with respect to Shares, the number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted, the number of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, the grant or exercise price with respect to outstanding Awards and the individual annual grant limits with respect to Awards (other than dollar denominated Awards) automatically shall be proportionately adjusted, without action by the Committee; provided, however, such automatic adjustment shall be evidenced by written addendums to the Plan and Award Agreements prepared by the Company and, with respect to Options, shall be in accordance with the Treasury Regulations concerning Incentive Stock Options. Further, in the event that the Committee determines that any distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities, or other property), recapitalization, reorganization, merger, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Shares such that an adjustment is determined by the Committee to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, adjust any or all of (i) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or property) with respect to which Awards may be granted, (ii) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or property) subject to outstanding Awards, and (iii) the grant or exercise price with respect to any Award or, if deemed appropriate, make provision for a cash payment to the holder of an outstanding Award; provided that the number of Shares subject to any Award denominated in Shares shall always be a whole number.
 
(d) .
Individual Participant Limits
Subject to adjustment pursuant to the above paragraph (c), "Adjustments," the maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be subject to Share-denominated Awards granted under the Plan to any individual during any calendar year shall not exceed 500,000; provided, however, that commencing January 1, 2005, to the extent the 500,000 Share limit is not awarded to any Participant with respect to any calendar year, the amount not so awarded but permitted for such Participant shall be available for award to such Participant during any subsequent calendar year. As a result, the maximum number of Shares pursuant to which Awards may be granted during any calendar year hereunder to any Participant may be greater than the 500,000 Share limit specified above only to the extent that such Shares were not awarded to such Participant during any preceding calendar year. The method of counting such Shares shall conform to any requirements applicable to performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The maximum amount of dollar-denominated Awards that may be granted to any individual during any calendar year shall not exceed $2,000,000.
SECTION 5..
Eligibility
Any Employee, Consultant or Director shall be eligible to be designated a Participant by the Committee. No individual shall have any right to be granted an Award pursuant to this Plan.
SECTION 6. .
Awards
(a)
Options
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority to determine Participants to whom Options shall be granted, the number of Shares to be covered by each Option, the purchase price therefor and the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise of the Option, including the following terms and conditions and such additional terms and conditions, as the Committee shall determine, that are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan.
(1) . The purchase price per Share purchasable under an Option shall be determined by the Committee at the time the Option is granted, but shall not be less than the Fair Market Value per Share on the effective date of such grant.
Exercise Price
(2) . The Committee shall determine and provide in the Award Agreement or by action subsequent to the grant the time or times at which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part, and the method or methods by which, and the form or forms (which may include, without limitation, cash, check acceptable to the Company, Shares already-owned for more than six months (unless such holding requirement is waived by the Committee), Shares issuable upon Option exercise, a "cashless-broker" exercise (through procedures approved by the Committee), other securities or other property, a note, or any combination thereof, having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the relevant exercise price) in which payment of the exercise price and tax withholding obligation with respect thereto may be made or deemed to have been made. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the
Time and Method of Exercise
 
contrary, no Participant who is a member of the Board or an "executive officer" of the Company within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act shall be permitted to pay the exercise price of an Option in any method which would violate Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act. The Committee shall also determine the performance or other conditions, if any, that must be satisfied before all or part of an Option may vest and be exercised. No portion of an Option which is unexercisable at termination of the Participant's employment or service, as applicable, shall thereafter become exercisable, except as may be otherwise provided by the Committee either in the Award Agreement or by action following the grant of the Option.
(3) . An Incentive Stock Option may be granted only to an individual who is an Employee of the Company or any parent or subsidiary corporation (as defined in Section 424 of the Code) at the time the Option is granted and must be granted within 10 years from the date the Plan was approved by the Board or the shareholders, whichever is earlier. To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the time the respective Incentive Stock Option is granted) of Common Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by an individual during any calendar year under all incentive stock option plans of the Company and its parent and subsidiary corporations exceeds $100,000, such Incentive Stock Options shall be treated as a Non-Qualified Stock Option. The Committee shall determine, in accordance with applicable provisions of the Code, Treasury Regulations and other administrative pronouncements, which of a Participant's Incentive Stock Options will not constitute Incentive Stock Options because of such limitation and shall notify the Participant of such determination as soon as practicable after such determination. No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to an individual if, at the time the Option is granted, such individual owns stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of its parent or subsidiary corporation, within the meaning of section 422(b)(6) of the Code, unless (i) at the time such Option is granted the option price is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock subject to the Option and (ii) such Option by its terms is not exercisable after the expiration of five years from the date of grant. An Incentive Stock Option shall not be transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative. The terms of any Incentive Stock Option granted under the Plan shall comply in all respects with the provisions of Section 422 of the Code, or any successor provision, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
Incentive Stock Options
(4) . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have to right to substitute a SAR for an Option at any time prior to or upon exercise of such Option, subject to the provisions of Section 6(e) hereof; that such SAR shall be exercisable for the same number of shares of Stock as such substituted Option would have been exercisable for.
Substitution of Stock Appreciation Rights
provided
 
(b) .
Restricted Stock
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority to determine the Participants to whom Restricted Stock shall be granted, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock to be granted to each such Participant, the duration of the Restricted Period during which, and the conditions, including the Performance Criteria or other specified criteria, including the passage of time, if any, under which the Restricted Stock may vest or be forfeited to the Company, and the other terms and conditions of such Awards. However, except as provided in Section 6(b)(3) with respect to waivers, (i) the minimum Restricted Period for a Restricted Stock Award the vesting of which is based on the achievement of Performance Criteria shall not be less than one year and (ii) the minimum Restricted Period for a Restricted Stock Award the vesting of which is based solely on the passage of time shall not be less than three years.
(1) . Dividends paid on Restricted Stock may be paid directly to the Participant, may be subject to risk of forfeiture and/or transfer restrictions during any period established by the Committee or sequestered and held in a bookkeeping cash account (with or without interest) or reinvested on an immediate or deferred basis in additional shares of Common Stock, which credit or shares may be subject to the same restrictions as the underlying Award or such other restrictions, all as determined by the Committee in its discretion, as provided in the Award Agreement.
Dividends
(2) . Any Restricted Stock may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall deem appropriate, including, without limitation, book-entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates. In the event any stock certificate is issued in respect of Restricted Stock granted under the Plan, such certificate shall be registered in the name of the Participant and shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock.
Registration
(3) . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee or the terms of the Award Agreement, upon a Participant's termination of employment or service (as determined under criteria established by the Committee) for any reason during the applicable Restricted Period, all Restricted Stock shall be forfeited by the Participant and re-acquired by the Company. The Committee may, upon or in connection with a Qualifying Event, waive in whole or in part any or all remaining restrictions with respect to such Participant's Restricted Stock; provided, however, if the Award is intended to qualify as performance based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, such waiver may be only in compliance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code. Unrestricted Shares, evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall deem appropriate, shall be issued to the holder of Restricted Stock promptly after the applicable restrictions have lapsed or otherwise been satisfied.
Forfeiture and Restrictions Lapse
(4) . Restricted Stock shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability and other restrictions as the Committee may impose (including, without limitation, restrictions on the right to vote Restricted Stock or the right to receive dividends on the Restricted Stock). These restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, pursuant to such circumstances, in such installments, or otherwise, as the Committee determines at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter. During the Restricted Period, Restricted Stock will be subject to such limitations on transfer as necessary to comply with Section 83 of the Code.
Restrictions
 
(c) .
Performance Awards
The Committee shall have the authority to determine the Participants who shall receive a Performance Award, which shall be denominated as a cash amount at the time of grant and confer on the Participant the right to receive all or part of such Award upon the achievement of such performance goals (based on the Performance Criteria or any other specified criteria) during such performance periods as the Committee shall establish with respect to the Award. However, except as provided in Section 6(c)(3) with respect to waivers, the minimum performance period shall not be less than one year. The Committee, in its discretion, may determine whether an Award is to qualify as performance-based compensation as described in Section 162(m) (4) (C) of the Code.
(1) . Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the Committee shall determine the performance goals to be achieved during any performance period, the Performance Criteria or other criteria upon which the performance goals are to be based, the length of any performance period and the amount of any Performance Award.
Terms and Conditions
(2) . Performance Awards may be paid (in cash and/or in Shares, in the sole discretion of the Committee) in a lump sum or in installments following the close of the performance period, or at such later deferral date elected by the Participant, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee with respect to such Award.
Payment of Performance Awards
(3) . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee or the terms of the Award Agreement that granted the Performance Award, upon a Participant's termination of employment or service, as applicable (as determined under criteria established by the Committee) for any reason during the applicable Restricted Period, all Performance Awards shall be forfeited by the Participant and re-acquired by the Company. The Committee may, upon or in connection with a Qualifying Event, waive in whole or in part any or all remaining restrictions with respect to such Participant's Performance Award; provided, however, if the Award is intended to qualify as performance based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, such waiver may be only in compliance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code. Unrestricted Shares, evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall deem appropriate, shall be issued to the holder of Performance Awards promptly after the applicable restrictions have lapsed or otherwise been satisfied.
Forfeiture and Restrictions Lapse
(d) .
Phantom Shares
The Committee shall have the authority to grant Awards of Phantom Shares to Participants upon such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine.
(1) . Each Phantom Share Award shall constitute an agreement by the Company to issue or transfer a specified number of Shares or pay an amount of cash equal to the Fair Market Value of a specified number of Shares, or a combination thereof to the Participant in the future, subject to the fulfillment during the
Terms and Conditions
 
Restricted Period of such conditions, including those linked to the Performance Criteria or other specified criteria, including the passage of time, if any, as the Committee may specify at the date of grant. During the Restricted Period, the Participant shall not have any right to transfer any rights under the subject Award, shall not have any rights of ownership in the Phantom Shares and shall not have any right to vote such shares.
(2) . Any Phantom Share award may provide, in the discretion of the Committee, that any or all dividends or other distributions paid on Shares during the Restricted Period be credited in a cash bookkeeping account (with or without interest) or that equivalent additional Phantom Shares be awarded, which account or Phantom Shares may be subject to the same restrictions as the underlying Award or such other restrictions as the Committee may determine.
Dividend Equivalents
(3) . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee or set forth in the Award Agreement, upon a Participant's termination of employment or service (as determined under criteria established by the Committee) for any reason during the applicable Restricted Period, all Phantom Shares shall be forfeited by the Participant. The Committee may, upon or in connection with a Qualifying Event, waive in whole or in part any or all remaining restrictions with respect to such Participant's Phantom Shares; provided, however, if the Award is intended to qualify as performance based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, such waiver may be only in compliance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Forfeiture and Restrictions Lapse
(4) . Phantom Shares may be paid (in cash and/or in Shares, in the sole discretion of the Committee) in a lump sum or in installments following the close of the Restricted Period, or at such later deferral date elected by the Participant, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee with respect to such Award.
Payment of Phantom Shares
(e) .
SARs
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority to determine Participants to whom SARs shall be granted, the number of Shares to be covered by each SAR, the exercise price and the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise of the SAR, including the following terms and conditions and such additional terms and conditions, as the Committee shall determine, that are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan. A SAR may be granted (a) in connection and simultaneously with the grant of an Option, (b) with respect to a previously granted Option, or (c) independent of an Option.
(1) . The exercise price per SAR shall be determined by the Committee at the time the SAR is granted, but shall not be less than the Fair Market Value per Share on the effective date of such grant.
Exercise Price
(2) . The Committee shall determine and provide in the Award Agreement the time or times at which a SAR may be exercised in whole or in part.
Time of Exercise
 
(3) . The Committee shall determine, in its discretion, whether the SAR shall be paid in cash, shares of Common Stock or a combination of the two.
Method of Payment
(f) .
Stock Payments
Stock Payments may be awarded in such amount and may be based upon such Performance Criteria or other specific criteria, if any, determined appropriate by the Committee, determined on the date such Stock Payment is made or on any date thereafter.
(g) .
Substitute Awards
Awards may be granted under the Plan in substitution of similar awards held by individuals who become Employees, Consultants or Directors as a result of a merger, consolidation or acquisition by the Company or a Subsidiary of another entity or the assets of another entity. Such substitute awards may have exercise prices less than the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of such substitution.
(h) .
General
(1) . Awards may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, any other Award granted under the Plan or any award granted under any other plan of the Company or any Subsidiary. Awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards or awards granted under any other plan of the Company or any Subsidiary may be granted either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other Awards or awards.
Awards May Be Granted Separately or Together
(2) .
Limits on Transfer of Awards
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (C) below, each Award, and each right under any Award, shall be exercisable only by the Participant during the Participant's lifetime, or if permissible under applicable law, by the Participant's guardian or legal representative as determined by the Committee.
(B) Except as provided in paragraph (C) below, no Award and no right under any such Award may be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by a Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and any such purported prohibited assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Subsidiary.
(C) To the extent specifically approved in writing by the Committee, an Award (other than an Incentive Stock Option) may be transferred to immediate family members or related family trusts, limited partnerships or similar entities or other Persons on such terms and conditions as the Committee may establish or approve.
 
(3) . The term of each Award shall be for such period as may be determined by the Committee; provided, that in no event shall the term of any Award exceed a period of 10 years from the date of its grant.
Terms of Awards
(4) . All certificates for Shares or other securities of the Company or any Subsidiary delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award or the exercise thereof shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the SEC, any stock exchange upon which such Shares or other securities are then listed, and any applicable federal or state laws, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
Share Certificate
(5) . Awards may be granted for no cash consideration or for such consideration as the Committee determines including, without limitation, such minimal cash consideration as may be required by applicable law.
Consideration for Grants
(6) . No Shares or other securities shall be delivered pursuant to any Award until payment in full of any amount required to be paid pursuant to the Plan or the applicable Award Agreement (including, without limitation, any exercise price or tax withholding) is received by the Company. Such payment may be made by such method or methods and in such form or forms as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property, withholding of Shares, cashless exercise with simultaneous sale, or any combination thereof, provided that the combined value, as determined by the Committee, of all cash and cash equivalents and the Fair Market Value of any such Shares or other property so tendered to the Company, as of the date of such tender, is at least equal to the full amount required to be paid pursuant to the plan or the applicable Award Agreement to the Company.
Delivery of Shares or other Securities and Payment by Participant of Consideration
(i) .
Performance Based Compensation
The Committee shall determine which Awards are intended by the Committee to qualify as "performance-based compensation" as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code. The Committee shall establish performance goals applicable to those Awards based upon the attainment of such target levels of one or more of the Performance Criteria, over one or more periods of time, which may be of varying and overlapping durations, as the Committee may select. The Performance Criteria shall be subject to adjustment for changes in accounting standards required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board after the goal is established, and, to the extent provided for in the Award Agreement, shall be subject to adjustment for specified significant extraordinary items or events. In this regard, performance goals based on stock price shall be proportionately adjusted for any changes in the price due to a stock split. Performance Criteria may be absolute, relative to one or more other companies, or relative to one
 
or more indexes, and may be contingent upon future performance of the Company or any Subsidiary, division, unit or product line thereof. A performance goal need not be based upon an increase or positive result under a Performance Criteria and could, for example, be based upon limiting economic losses or maintaining the status quo. Which Performance Criteria to be used with respect to any grant, and the weight to be accorded thereto if more than one factor is used, shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, at the time of grant. To the extent necessary to comply with the qualified performance-based compensation requirements of Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code, following the completion of each specified performance period, the Committee shall certify in writing whether the applicable performance goals have been achieved for such performance period. In determining the amount earned by a Participant, the Committee shall have the right to reduce or eliminate (but not to increase) the amount payable at a given level of performance to take into account additional factors that the Committee may deem relevant to the assessment of individual or corporate performance for the performance period. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, any Award which is intended to constitute qualified performance-based compensation shall be subject to any additional limitations set forth in Section 162(m) of the Code (including any amendment to Section 162(m) of the Code) or any regulations or rulings issued thereunder that are requirements for qualification as qualified performance-based compensation as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code, and the Plan shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements.
SECTION 7. .
Amendment and Termination
Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law and unless otherwise expressly provided in an Award Agreement or in the Plan:
(1) . The Board or the Committee may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue, or terminate the Plan without the consent of any stockholder, Participant, other holder or beneficiary of an Award, or other Person; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation, or termination shall be made that would (i) increase the total number of Shares that may be issued under the Plan, except as provided in Section 4(c) of the Plan, or (ii) permit the exercise price of any outstanding Option or SAR that is "underwater" to be reduced or for an "underwater" Option or SAR to be cancelled and replaced with a new Award.
Amendments to the Plan
(2) . Subject to Paragraph (1) above and Section 3(b), the Committee may waive any conditions or rights under, amend any terms of, or alter any Award theretofore granted, provided no change in any Award shall adversely affect the rights of a Participant under the Award without the consent of such Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Award intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, no adjustment other than an acceleration of vesting or payment upon the Participant's death, disability or change of control of the Company, shall be authorized to the extent such adjustment would cause the Award to fail to so qualify.
Amendments to Awards
 
SECTION 8. .
General Provisions
(a) .
No Rights to Awards
No Participant or other Person shall have any claim to be granted any Award, there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants, or holders or beneficiaries of Awards and the terms and conditions of Awards need not be the same with respect to each recipient.
(b) .
Tax Withholding
The Company or any Subsidiary is authorized to withhold from any Award, from any payment due or transfer made under any Award or from any compensation or other amount owing to a Participant the amount (in cash, Shares, or other property) of any applicable taxes required to be withheld by the Company or Subsidiary in respect of the Award, its exercise, the lapse of restrictions thereon, or any payment or transfer under the Award and to take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all of its obligations for the payment of such taxes. In addition, the Committee may provide, in an Award Agreement, that the Participant may direct the Company to satisfy such Participant's tax withholding obligations through the withholding of Shares otherwise to be acquired upon the exercise or payment of such Award, but only to the extent such withholding does not cause a charge to the Company's financial earnings.
(c) .
No Right to Employment or Retention
The grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary or under any other service contract with the Company or any Subsidiary, or to remain on the Board. Further, the Company or a Subsidiary may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment or terminate any contractual agreement or relationship with any Consultant, free from any liability or any claim under the Plan, with or without cause, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, in any Award Agreement or any other agreement or contract between the Company or a Subsidiary and the affected Participant. If a Participant's employer ceases to be a Subsidiary, such Participant shall be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of the Plan, unless specifically provided otherwise in the Award Agreement.
(d) .
Unusual Transactions or Events
In the event of any distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities, or other property), recapitalization, reorganization, merger, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, or other similar corporate transaction or event or any unusual or nonrecurring transactions or events affecting the Company, any affiliate of the Company, or the financial statements of the Company or any affiliate, or of changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles, and whenever the Committee determines that action is appropriate in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan or with respect to any Award under the Plan, to facilitate such transactions or events or to give effect to such changes in laws, regulations or principles, the Committee, in its sole discretion and on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate, either by amendment of the terms of any outstanding Awards or by action taken prior to the occurrence of such transaction or event and either automatically or upon the Participant's request, is hereby authorized to take any one or more of the following actions:
 
(1) To provide for either (A) termination of any such Award in exchange for an amount of cash, if any, equal to the amount that would have been attained upon the exercise of such Award or realization of the Participant's rights (and, for the avoidance of doubt, if as of the date of the occurrence of the transaction or event described in this Section 8(d) the Committee determines in good faith that no amount would have been attained upon the exercise of such Award or realization of the Participant's rights, then such Award may be terminated by the Company without payment) or (B) the replacement of such Award with other rights or property selected by the Committee in its sole discretion;
(2) To provide that such Award be assumed by the successor or survivor corporation, or a parent or subsidiary thereof, or shall be substituted for by similar options, rights or awards covering the stock of the successor or survivor corporation, or a parent or subsidiary thereof, with appropriate adjustments as to the number and kind of shares and prices; and
(3) To make adjustments in the number and type of shares of common Stock (or other securities or property) subject to outstanding Awards, and in the number and kind of outstanding Awards and/or in the terms and conditions of (including the grant or exercise price), and the criteria included in, outstanding Awards and Awards which may be granted in the future;
(4) To provide that such Award shall be exercisable or payable or fully vested with respect to all shares covered thereby, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or the applicable Award Agreement; and
(5) To provide that the Award cannot vest, be exercised or become payable after such event.
(e) .
Governing Law
The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas and applicable federal law.
(f) .
Severability
If any provision of the Plan or any Award is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction or as to any Person or Award, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to the applicable laws, or if it cannot be construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, Person or Award and the remainder of the Plan and any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.
 
(g) .
Other Laws
The Committee may refuse to issue or transfer any Shares or other consideration under an Award, permit the exercise of an Award and/or the satisfaction of its tax withholding obligation in the manner elected by the Participant, holder or beneficiary if, acting in its sole discretion, it determines that the issuance of transfer or such Shares or such other consideration, the manner of exercise or satisfaction of the tax withholding obligation might violate any applicable law or regulation, including without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or entitle the Company to recover the same under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, and any payment tendered to the Company by a Participant, other holder or beneficiary in connection with the exercise of such Award shall be promptly refunded or refused, as the case may be, to the relevant Participant, holder or beneficiary.
(h) .
No Trust or Fund Created
Neither the Plan nor the Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Subsidiary and a Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Subsidiary pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any general unsecured creditor of the Company or any Subsidiary.
(i) .
No Fractional Shares
No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award, and the Committee shall determine whether cash, other securities, or other property shall be paid or transferred in lieu of any fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be cancelled, terminated, or otherwise eliminated.
(j) .
Headings
Headings are given to the Section and subsections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the plan or any provision thereof.
SECTION 9. .
Effective Date of Plan
The Plan shall become effective as of the later of the date (i) it is approved by the stockholders of the Company and (ii) the merger between National-Oilwell Inc. and Varco International Inc. is effective. No Awards may be made prior to the effective date of the Plan.
SECTION 10. .
Forfeiture in Certain Circumstances ("Clawback")
The Committee may, at its sole discretion, terminate any Award if it determines that the recipient of the Award has engaged in material misconduct. For purposes of this Clawback provision, material misconduct includes conduct adversely affecting the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or conduct which constitutes fraud or theft of Company assets, any of which require the Company to make a restatement of its reported financial statements. The Committee may also specify other conduct requiring the Company to make a restatement of its
 
publicly reported financial statements as constituting material misconduct in future Award Agreements. If any material misconduct results in any error in financial information used in the determination of compensation paid to the recipient of an Award and the effect of such error is to increase the payment amount pursuant to an Award, the Committee may also require the recipient to reimburse the Company for all or a portion of such increase in compensation provided in connection with any such Award. In addition, if there is a material restatement of the Company's financial statements that affects the financial information used to determine the compensation paid to the recipient of the Award, then the Committee may take whatever action it deems appropriate to adjust such compensation.
SECTION 11. .
Term of the Plan
No Award shall be granted under the Plan after September 13, 2014, which is the 10th anniversary of the date this Plan was first adopted by the Board. However, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in an applicable Award Agreement, any Award granted prior to such termination, and the authority of the Board or the Committee to amend, alter, adjust, suspend, discontinue, or terminate any such Award or to waive any conditions or rights under such Award, shall extend beyond such termination date.
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
The National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is intended to promote the interests of National Oilwell Varco, Inc., a Delaware Corporation, (the "Company") and its shareholders by providing designated Executives with incentive compensation that is correlated with the achievement of specified performance goals. The Plan is intended to provide annual incentive compensation, primarily to Executives who are considered to be "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), that is considered "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) and thus not subject to the annual compensation deduction limit under Section 162(m).
For purposes of the Plan, unless the context requires otherwise, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
1.1 "Base Salary" means the regular, annual, base salary payable by the Employer for a Performance Period to a Participant for services rendered, but excluding Incentive Compensation payable under the Plan, income derived from stock options, restricted stock awards, fringe benefits, and any bonuses, incentive compensation, special awards or other extraordinary remuneration. The Committee shall stipulate a Participant's Base Salary for purposes of computing Incentive Compensation awarded under the Plan to the Participant.
1.2 "Beneficiary" means the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated to receive any amounts payable under the Plan pursuant to Section 6.2 upon the Participant's death.
1.3 "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
1.4 "Cause" when used in connection with the termination of a Participant's employment, shall mean (i) the Participant's gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of Participant's duties with respect to the Company or a Subsidiary or (ii) Participant's final conviction of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or a felony.
1.5 "Change of Control" means (i) the Company completes the sale of assets having a gross sales price which exceeds 50% of the consolidated total capitalization of the Company (consolidated total stockholders' equity plus consolidated total long-term debt as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) as at the end of the last full fiscal quarter prior to the date such determination is made; or (ii) any corporation, person or group within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act, becomes the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of voting securities of the Company representing more than 30% of the total votes eligible to be cast at any election of directors of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.5, to the extent that any payment or acceleration hereunder is subject to Code Section 409A as deferred compensation, the term Change of Control shall mean an event described in the foregoing definition of Change of Control that also constitutes a change in control event as defined in Treasury regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(5).
1.6 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. References herein to any Section of the Code shall also refer to any successor provision thereof, and the regulations and other authority issued thereunder by the appropriate governmental authority.
1.7 "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board. The Committee shall be comprised solely of two (2) or more non-employee members of the Board who qualify to administer the Plan as "disinterested directors" under Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act, and as "outside directors" under Code Section 162(m).
1.8 "Company" means National Oilwell Varco, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or its successor in interest.
1.9 "Employer" means the Company and any Subsidiary.
1.10 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
1.11 "Executive" means an officer of the Company or a Subsidiary.
1.12 "Incentive Compensation" means the compensation approved by the Committee to be awarded to a Participant for any Performance Period under the Plan.
1.13 "Involuntary Termination" means a Participant's termination from employment with the Employer on or within twelve months following a Change of Control that is either (i) initiated by the Employer for reasons other than Cause, or (ii) initiated by the Participant after (a) a reduction by the Employer of the Participant's authority, duties or responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (excluding for this purpose (x) an insubstantial reduction of such authorities, duties or responsibilities or an insubstantial reduction of the Participant's offices, titles and reporting requirements, or (y) an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and that is remedied by the Employer promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by Participant), (b) a reduction of Participant's Base Salary or total compensation as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (total compensation means for this purpose: Base Salary, participation in this Plan, and participation in a long-term incentive plan), or (c) the Participant's transfer, without the Participant's express written consent, to a location which is outside the general metropolitan area in which the Participant's principal place of business immediately prior to the Change of Control may be located or the Employer's requiring the Participant to travel on Employer business to a substantially greater extent than required immediately prior to the Change of Control.
 
1.14 "Participant" means an Executive who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan pursuant to Article III for any Performance Period.
1.15 "Performance Criteria" means the business criteria that are specified by the Committee pursuant to Article VII.
1.16 "Performance Goal" means (a) the selected Performance Criteria and (b) the objective goals established relative to such Performance Criteria, as determined by the Committee for any Performance Period.
1.17 "Performance Period" means the Company's fiscal year or such other period selected by the Committee for the award of Incentive Compensation.
1.18 "Plan" means the National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.
1.19 "Subsidiary" means any corporation (whether now or hereafter existing) which constitutes a "subsidiary" of the Company, as defined in Code Section 424(f), and any limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, or other entity in which the Company controls more than fifty percent (50%) of its voting power or equity interests.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Article II, the Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have the power, in its discretion, to take such actions as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Plan and the authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan. In order to effectuate the purposes of the Plan, the Committee shall have the discretionary power and authority to construe and interpret the Plan, to supply any omissions therein, to reconcile and correct any errors or inconsistencies, to decide any questions in the administration and application of the Plan, and to make equitable adjustments for any mistakes or errors made in the administration of the Plan. All such actions or determinations made by the Committee, and the application of rules and regulations to a particular case or issue by the Committee, in good faith, shall not be subject to review by anyone, but shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons ever interested hereunder.
In construing the Plan and in exercising its power under provisions requiring the Committee's approval, the Committee shall attempt to ascertain the purpose of the provisions in question, and when the purpose is known or reasonably ascertainable, the purpose shall be given effect to the extent feasible as determined by the Committee. Likewise, the Committee is authorized to determine all questions with respect to the individual rights of all Participants under the Plan, including, but not limited to, all issues with respect to eligibility. The Committee shall have all powers necessary or appropriate to accomplish its duties under the Plan including, but not limited to, the power to:
(a) designate the Executives who are eligible to participate in the Plan as Participants;
 
(b) maintain records of all Plan transactions and other data in the manner necessary for proper administration of the Plan;
(c) adopt rules of procedure and regulations necessary for the proper and efficient administration of the Plan, provided the rules and regulations are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan as set out herein;
(d) enforce the terms of the Plan and the rules and regulations it adopts;
(e) review claims and render decisions on claims for benefits under the Plan;
(f) furnish the Company or the Participants, upon request, with information that the Company or the Participants may require for tax or other purposes;
(g) employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons (who also may be employed by or represent the Company) for such purposes as the Committee deems necessary or desirable in connection with its duties hereunder; and
(h) perform any other acts necessary or appropriate for the proper management and administration of the Plan.
The Committee may delegate to one or more members of the Committee any of its administrative duties under the Plan pursuant to such conditions or limitations as the Committee may establish from time to time by directive or practice; provided, however, the Committee cannot delegate to such member(s) the power or authority to (i) award Incentive Compensation under the Plan or (ii) to take any action which would contravene the requirements of Code Section 162(m) or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
For each Performance Period, the Committee shall select the particular Executives to whom Incentive Compensation may be awarded under the Plan for such Performance Period. Executives who participate in the Plan may also participate in other incentive or benefit plans maintained by an Employer.
4.1 . For each award of Incentive Compensation for a Performance Period, the Committee will establish the level or levels of targeted Incentive Compensation for each Participant within the first ninety (90) days of the Performance Period (or within such shorter deadline as may apply under Code Section 162(m) if the Performance Period is less than 12 months). The Incentive Compensation targets for each Participant that are established by the Committee will be expressed as a percentage of such Participant's Base Salary; provided, however, in no event will a Participant's Incentive Compensation exceed five million dollars ($5,000,000) for any single Performance Period.
Incentive Compensation Award Target
 
4.2 . Under no circumstances may the amount of any Incentive Compensation awarded to any Participant for a specified Performance Period be increased by the Committee without requisite shareholder approval to the extent required by Code Section 162(m).
Increase in Incentive Compensation
5.1 . For each Performance Period for which the Committee determines to establish potential Incentive Compensation awards for one or more Participants, the Committee, within the first ninety (90) days of such Performance Period (or within such shorter deadline as may apply under Code Section 162(m) if the Performance Period is less than 12 months), will set forth in writing all of the terms and conditions of such Incentive Compensation awards, including: (a) the Performance Goals for the Performance Period, including the Performance Criteria and the objective goals established relative to such Performance Criteria, which may include a threshold, target and maximum level of achievement, and the relative weighting of each Performance Goal in determining the Participant's actual Incentive Compensation; provided, however, the outcome of such Performance Goals must be substantially uncertain at the time they are established by the Committee; and (b) with respect to each Participant, the maximum percentage of his Incentive Compensation payable upon attaining each level of achievement of the Performance Goals.
Establishment of Performance Goals
5.2 . Within a reasonable period of time after the end of each Performance Period, the Committee shall determine the extent to which the Performance Goals assigned to each Participant were achieved for the Performance Period, and based solely on such achievement, shall approve the calculation of the Participant's actual Incentive Compensation award. No Incentive Compensation is payable hereunder unless at least the designated threshold level or levels for such Performance Goals have been achieved, as determined by the Committee.
Determination
5.3 . The Committee shall have no discretion to approve an amount of Incentive Compensation to be paid to a Participant under the Plan that is in excess of the amount determined pursuant to the pre-established Incentive Compensation award granted to the Participant for the applicable Performance Period.
Committee Discretion
6.1 . Subject to Section 6.2, a Participant's Incentive Compensation for each Performance Period, if any, shall be paid in a cash lump sum (net of applicable tax and other required withholdings) as soon as practicable after (a) the results for such Performance Period have been finalized and (b) the Committee has certified, in writing, that the applicable Performance Goals have been satisfied for the Performance Period. For purposes of the preceding sentence, approved minutes of the Committee meeting in which the certification is made shall be treated as written certification. The Incentive Compensation shall be paid under the Plan within two and one-half (2 1/2) months after the end of the calendar year in which the Performance Period relating to such Incentive Compensation ends.
Form and Time of Payment
 
(a) If a Participant's employment terminates for any reason prior to the end of a Performance Period, then such Participant shall immediately forfeit and relinquish any and all rights and claims to receive any Incentive Compensation hereunder for such Performance Period.
(b) If a Participant's employment terminates for any reason after the end of a Performance Period but prior to the date of actual payment pursuant to Section 6.1, then such Participant (or Participant's Beneficiary in the event employment is terminated due to death) shall be entitled to the Incentive Compensation payment determined by the Committee to be due and payable to such Participant; provided, however, that if (i) such Participant's employment is terminated for Cause, or (ii) such Participant voluntarily terminates employment with the Company (excluding an Involuntary Termination) during the period after the end of a Performance Period but prior to the date of actual payment pursuant to Section 6.1, then such Participant shall immediately forfeit and relinquish any and all rights and claims to receive any Incentive Compensation hereunder for such Performance Period.
As determined by the Committee, Incentive Compensation payable under the Plan is subject to the performance objectives relating to one or more of the following Performance Criteria (with respect to the Company, any Subsidiary or any division, operating unit or product line): net earnings (either before or after interest, taxes, depreciation and/or amortization), sales, revenue, net income (either before or after taxes), operating profit, cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow and free cash flow), cash flow return on capital, return on net assets, return on stockholders' equity, return on assets, return on capital, stockholder returns, return on sales, gross or net profit margin, customer or sales channel revenue or profitability, productivity, expense, margins, cost reductions, controls or savings, operating efficiency, customer satisfaction, working capital, strategic initiatives, economic value added, earnings per share, earnings per share from operations, price per share of stock, and market share. Performance Criteria may be stated in absolute terms or relative to comparison companies or indices to be achieved during a Performance Period.
The Committee shall establish one or more Performance Criteria for each award of Incentive Compensation to a Participant. In establishing the Performance Criteria for each award of Incentive Compensation, the Committee may provide that the effect of specified extraordinary or unusual events will be included or excluded (including, but not limited to, all items of gain, loss or expense determined to be extraordinary or unusual in nature or infrequent in occurrence or related to the disposal of a segment of business or related to a change in accounting principle, all as determined in accordance with standards set by Opinion No. 30 of the Accounting Principles Board (APB Opinion 30) or other authoritative financial accounting standards). The terms of the stated Performance Criteria for each applicable award of Incentive Compensation must preclude the Committee's discretion to increase the amount payable to any Participant that would otherwise be due upon attainment of the Performance Criteria. The Performance Criteria specified need not be applicable to all awards of Incentive Compensation, and may be particular or unique to an individual Participant's function, duties or business unit.
 
8.1 . A Participant cannot alienate, assign, pledge, encumber, transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of any rights or benefits under the Plan prior to the actual receipt thereof; and any attempt to alienate, assign, pledge, sell, transfer or assign prior to such receipt, or any levy, attachment, execution or similar process upon any such rights or benefits, shall be null and void.
Non-Assignability
8.2 . Nothing in the Plan confers upon any Participant the right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary, or interferes with or restricts in any way the right of the Employer to discharge any Participant at any time (subject to any contract rights of such Participant).
No Right to Continue in Employment
8.3 . Each person who is or was a member of the Committee shall be indemnified by the Company against and from any damage, loss, liability, cost and expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he is or may be a party, or in which he may be involved, by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan, except for any such act or omission constituting willful misconduct or gross negligence. Each such person shall be indemnified by the Company for all amounts paid by him in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him, provided he shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he undertakes to handle and defend it on his own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled from the Company, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Indemnification of Committee Members
8.4 . The Plan shall at all times be entirely unfunded and no provision shall be made with respect to segregating any assets of any Employer for payment of any amounts due hereunder. No Participant, Beneficiary, or other person or entity shall have any interest in any particular assets of an Employer by reason of the right to receive any Incentive Compensation under the Plan until such payment is actually received by such person. Participants and Beneficiaries shall have only the rights of general unsecured creditors of the Company.
No Plan Funding
8.5 . The Plan shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas without regard to its conflicts of law provisions.
Governing Law
8.6 . The Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Employer and its successors and assigns, and the Participants and their Beneficiaries, heirs, and personal representatives.
Binding Effect
8.7 . The captions used in the Plan are for convenience of reference only and shall not be construed in interpreting the Plan. Whenever the context so requires, the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter, and the singular shall also include the plural, and conversely.
Construction of Plan
 
8.8 . The Plan constitutes the final and complete expression of agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integrated Plan
8.9 . The Plan is not intended to provide for the payment of any nonqualified deferred compensation that is subject to Code Section 409A. However, to the extent that any payment under the Plan is determined by the Committee to be nonqualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A, the Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A. If any provision herein results in the imposition of an excise tax on any Participant or Beneficiary under Section 409A, such provision will be reformed to the extent necessary to avoid such imposition as the Committee determines is appropriate to comply with Section 409A.
Compliance with Code Section 409A
8.10 The Committee may, at its sole discretion, terminate any Award of Incentive Compensation ("Award") if it determines that the recipient of the Award has engaged in material misconduct. For purposes of this Clawback provision, material misconduct includes conduct adversely affecting the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or conduct which constitutes fraud or theft of Company assets, any of which require the Company to make a restatement of its reported financial statements. The Committee may also specify other conduct requiring the Company to make a restatement of its publicly reported financial statements as constituting material misconduct in future Awards. If any material misconduct results in any error in financial information used in the determination of compensation paid to the recipient of an Award and the effect of such error is to increase the payment amount pursuant to an Award, the Committee may also require the recipient to reimburse the Company for all or a portion of such increase in compensation provided in connection with any such Award. In addition, if there is a material restatement of the Company's financial statements that affects the financial information used to determine the compensation paid to the recipient of the Award, then the Committee may take whatever action it deems appropriate to adjust such compensation.
Forfeiture in Certain Circumstances ("Clawback").
The Committee may at any time, and from time to time, without the consent of (or liability of the Committee or Employer to) any Participant, amend, revise, suspend, or discontinue the Plan, in whole or in part, subject to any shareholder approval required by law; provided, however, the Committee may not amend the Plan to change the method for determining Incentive Compensation or the Performance Goals under Articles IV and V without the approval of the majority of votes cast by the shareholders of the Company in a separate vote to the extent required by Code Section 162(m).
 
Neither the adoption of the Plan, nor any action of the Board or the Committee hereunder, shall be deemed to give any Participant any right to be granted Incentive Compensation hereunder. In addition, nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall be construed to (a) give any Participant any right to any compensation, except as expressly provided herein; (b) be evidence of any agreement, contract or understanding, express or implied, that any Employer will employ a Participant in any particular position or for any particular duration; (c) give any Participant any right, title, or interest whatsoever in, or to, any assets or investments which the Participant may make to aid it in meeting its obligations hereunder; (d) create a trust or fund of any kind; or (e) create any type of fiduciary relationship between an Employer and a Participant or any other person.
The Plan shall be effective as of January 1, 2008, contingent upon its approval by the Company's shareholders in a manner consistent with the shareholder approval requirements of Code Section 162(m).
 


