FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20070821162011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On August 20, 2007, Discover Financial Services issued a press release recommending its stockholders to reject a minitender offer by TRC Capital Corporation. The information contained in the press release is deemed to be filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as Exhibit 99.1 to this report, and such press release is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Other Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) announced today that it has been notified of an unsolicited mini-tender offer by TRC Capital Corporation (TRC) to purchase up to four million shares of Discover's common stock, representing less than 1% of the shares of common stock outstanding. TRC's offer price of $22.00 per share is 3.8% below the share closing price of Discover's common stock on August 7, 2007, the day before the offer, and is subject to a number of conditions, including the right to terminate in the event of a decrease in the market price of the shares. TRC has made numerous unsolicited mini-tender offers for shares of other companies in the past.
Riverwoods, IL, August 20, 2007
Discover recommends against shareholders tendering their shares in response to TRC's unsolicited mini-tender offer. Mini-tender offers, such as this one, avoid many of the investor protections afforded to larger tender offers, including the filing of disclosure and other tender offer documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other procedures mandated by U.S. securities laws. Discover is in no way associated with TRC, its mini-tender offer or the offer documentation.
The SEC has issued an investor advisory regarding mini-tender offers, noting that in making the offers at below-market prices "bidders are hoping that they will catch investors off guard if the investors do not compare the offer price to the current market price." Investors are urged to consult with their brokers or financial advisors on such matters. The SEC advisory may be found on the SEC web site, at .
www.sec.gov/investor/pubs/minitend.htm
Discover urges shareholders to obtain current market quotations for their shares of common stock, to consult with their financial advisors and to exercise caution with respect to this offer. The company advises shareholders who already have tendered that they may withdraw their common shares by providing the written notice described in the TRC offering documents prior to the expiration of the offer, currently scheduled for 12:01 a.m. EST on Friday, September 7, 2007.
About Discover Financial Services
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) operates the Discover Card with more than 50 million cardmembers, the Discover Network with millions of merchant and cash access locations, and the Goldfish credit card business in the United Kingdom. Discover Financial Services also operates the PULSE ATM/debit network, which serves more than 4,400 financial institutions and includes nearly 260,000 ATMs, as well as POS terminals, nationwide. For more information, visit www.discoverfinancial.com.
Media Contact
Leslie Sutton
224-405-3965
lesliesutton@discover.com
Investor Relations Contact
Craig Streem
224-405-3575
craigstreem@discover.com


