FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20070620121601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
On June 20, 2007, Discover Financial Services (the "Company") released financial information with respect to its fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2007. A copy of the press release containing this information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In addition, a copy of  the Company's Financial Data Supplement for its fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2007 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information furnished under Item 2.02 of this Report, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
The exhibits accompanying this report are listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
3
 
A financial summary follows.  Financial, statistical, and business related information, as well as information regarding business and segment trends, is included in the Financial Supplement.  Both the earnings release and the Financial Supplement are available online in the Investor Relations section at www.discoverfinancial.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Discover Financial Services management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties.  Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.  The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; our ability to manage credit risks and securitize our receivables at acceptable rates; changes in economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values, investments and other market indices; the availability and cost of funding and capital; access to U.S. or U.K. debt markets; the ability to increase or sustain Discover Card usage or attract new cardmembers and introduce new products or services; our ability to attract new merchants and maintain relationships with current merchants; material security breaches of key systems; unforeseen and catastrophic events; our reputation; the potential effects of technological changes; the effect of political, economic and market conditions and geopolitical events; unanticipated developments relating to lawsuits, investigations or similar matters; the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation and regulatory and legal actions; our ability to attract and retain employees; the ability to protect our intellectual property; the impact of our separation from Morgan Stanley; the impact of any potential future acquisitions; investor sentiment; and the restrictions on our operations resulting from indebtedness incurred during our separation from Morgan Stanley.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and there is no undertaking to update or revise them as more information becomes available.  Additional factors that could cause Discover Financial Services results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the Companys Form 10, as amended, filed with the SEC and available at the SECs Internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2) Securitization Adjustments present the effect of loan securitization by recharacterizing as securitization income the portions of the following items that relate to the securitized loans: interest income, interest expense, provision for loan losses, discount and interchange revenue and loan fee revenues. Securitization income is reported in other income.
 
The data is presented on both a "managed" loan basis and as reported under generally accepted accounting principles ("owned" loan basis). Managed loan data assume that the Company's securitized loan receivables have not been sold and presents the results of securitized loan receivables in the same manner as the Company's owned loans. The Company operates its business and analyzes its financial performance on a managed basis. Accordingly, underwriting and servicing standards are comparable for both owned and securitized loans. The Company  believes that managed loan information is useful to investors because it provides information regarding the quality of loan origination and credit performance of the entire managed portfolio and allows investors to understand the related credit risks inherent in owned loans and retained interests in securitizations. Managed loan data is also relevant because the company services the securitized and owned loans, and the related accounts, in the same manner without regard to ownership of the loans. In addition, investors often request information on a managed basis which provides a more meaningful comparison to industry competitors.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Page 1
 
 
 
Page 2
 
 
 
 
Page 3
 
 
 
 
Page 4
 
 
 
Page 5
 
The following (pages 7 - 10) present a reconciliation for certain information disclosed on pages 1, 2, 3 and 4.
The data is presented on both a "managed" loan basis and as reported under generally accepted accounting principles ("owned" loan basis).
Managed loan data assume that the Company's securitized loan receivables have not been sold and presents the results of securitized loan
receivables in the same manner as the Company's owned loans.  The Company operates its business and analyzes its financial performance
on a managed basis.  Accordingly, underwriting and servicing standards are comparable for both owned and securitized loans.  The Company
believes that managed loan information is useful to investors because it provides information regarding the quality of loan origination and
credit performance of the entire managed portfolio and allows investors to understand the related credit risks inherent in owned loans and
retained interests in securitizations.  Managed loan data is also relevant because the company services the securitized and owned loans, and
the related accounts, in the same manner without regard to ownership of the loans.  In addition, investors often request information on a
managed basis which provides a more meaningful comparison to industry competitors.
 
 
 
Page 6
 
 
 
Page 7
 
 
Page 8
 
 
 
Page 9
 
 
 
 


