FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20070925083123.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                                Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On September 25, 2007, Discover Financial Services (the "Company") released financial information with respect to its quarter ended August 31, 2007. A copy of the press release containing this information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In addition, a copy of the Company's Financial Data Supplement for its quarter ended August 31, 2007 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information furnished under Item 2.02 of this Report, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
Item 9.01.                                Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The exhibits accompanying this report are listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
-- Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) today reported net income of $202 million or $0.42 per share (diluted) for the third quarter ended August 31, 2007 compared with net income of $241 million for the third quarter of 2006.
Riverwoods, IL, September 25, 2007
Highlights
 
 
"Discover achieved strong results this quarter, driven by record quarterly sales volume, continued growth in card receivables and sound credit quality," said David Nelms, chief executive officer of Discover Financial Services.  "Our third quarter performance reflects our commitment to achieving continued growth in balances and transaction volume while remaining unrelenting in our focus on credit risk management.  In addition, weve made significant gains in one of our most important strategic initiatives through agreements with merchant acquirers, which will enable us to increase acceptance of Discover Network cards.
 
 
1
 
Third-Party Payments transaction growth increased this quarter and PULSE signed a number of multi-year agreements with key financial institutions.
 
The company sustained continued losses in its International Card business amidst a challenging operating environment in the United Kingdom.  Discover is focused on a combination of revenue and expense-control initiatives designed to contribute to improved performance.
Following the spin-off from Morgan Stanley, which occurred on June 30, 2007, the company took steps to increase financial liquidity and finished the quarter with just over $8 billion in cash reserves.
Nelms added, "Having completed the transition to a stand alone company, our fundamental commitment is to build long-term value for our shareholders.  In keeping with that focus, this morning we announced an initial dividend of $0.06 per share."
Financial information presented on a managed basis assumes that loans that have been securitized were not sold and presents financial information on these loans in a manner similar to the way financial information on loans that have not been sold is presented.  For more information and a detailed reconciliation, please refer to the schedule titled Reconciliation of GAAP to Managed attached to this press release.
Segment Results (Managed Basis):
U.S. Card
 
 
2
 
Third-Party Payments
International Card
 
 
3
 
Dividend Declaration
Discovers Board of Directors has declared a dividend of $0.06 per share.  The cash dividend is payable on October 23, 2007 to stockholders of record at the close of business on October 5, 2007.
Conference Call and Webcast Information
The company will host a conference call to discuss its third quarter results on Tuesday, September 25, 2007, at 10:00 am Central Time.  Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at http://investorrelations.discoverfinancial.com.
About Discover Financial Services
 
Discover Financial Services (NYSE:DFS) operates the Discover Card with more than 50 million cardmembers, the Discover Network with millions of merchant and cash access locations, and the Goldfish credit card business in the United Kingdom. Discover Financial Services also operates the PULSE ATM/debit network, which serves more than 4,400 financial institutions and includes nearly 260,000 ATMs, as well as POS terminals, nationwide. For more information, visit www.discoverfinancial.com.
 
Contacts:
 
Investors:
 
Craig Streem, 224-405-3575
craigstreem@discover.com
 
Media:
Leslie Sutton, 224-405-3965
lesliesutton@discover.com
 
 
4
 
A financial summary follows. Financial, statistical, and business related information, as well as information regarding business and segment trends, is included in the Financial Supplement. Both the earnings release and the Financial Supplement are available online in the Investor Relations section at www.discoverfinancial.com.
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Discover Financial Services' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; our ability to manage credit risks and securitize our receivables at acceptable rates; changes in economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values, investments and other market indices; the availability and cost of funding and capital; access to U.S. or U.K. debt markets; the ability to increase or sustain Discover Card usage or attract new cardmembers and introduce new products or services; our ability to attract new merchants and maintain relationships with current merchants; material security breaches of key systems; unforeseen and catastrophic events; our reputation; the potential effects of technological changes; the effect of political, economic and market conditions and geopolitical events; unanticipated developments relating to lawsuits, investigations or similar matters; the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation and regulatory and legal actions; our ability to attract and retain employees; the ability to protect our intellectual property; the impact of our separation from Morgan Stanley; the impact of any potential future acquisitions; investor sentiment; and the restrictions on our operations resulting from indebtedness incurred during our separation from Morgan Stanley.
 
 
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and there is no undertaking to update or revise them as more information becomes available. Additional factors that could cause Discover Financial Services' results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the Company's Form 10, as amended, filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
12
 
 
13
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
16
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
9
 


