FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20070619163609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On June 13, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Discover Financial Services (the "Company") approved an amendment and restatement of its bylaws (the "Amended and Restated Bylaws"). The Amended and Restated Bylaws will become effective on the date of the distribution by Morgan Stanley of all of the common stock of the Company to holders of Morgan Stanley common stock. A description of the material provisions of the Amended and Restated Bylaws is included in the information statement filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d)    On June 13, 2007, Philip A. Laskawy was elected to the Board. Mr. Laskawy will serve as the chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Laskawy and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Laskawy was selected as a director. There are no transactions involving Mr. Laskawy that would be required to be reported under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Mr. Laskawy retired in 2001 as chairman and chief executive officer of Ernst & Young LLP. He has served as a director for General Motors Corporation since 2003 and is a member of its audit and investment funds committees. Mr. Laskawy is also a director and member of the audit and governance committees of Henry Schein, Inc., a director and member of the audit committee of Loews Corporation, and a director and member of the audit committee of The Progressive Corporation.
(e)    On June 13, 2007, Morgan Stanley Domestic Capital Inc., in its capacity as the sole stockholder of the Company, adopted the: (1) Discover Financial Services Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan"); (2) Discover Financial Services Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"); and (3) Discover Financial Services Directors' Compensation Plan (the "Directors' Plan").
A description of the material provisions of the Incentive Plan is included in the information statement filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of the Incentive Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
A description of the material provisions of the ESPP is included in the information statement filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of the ESPP is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
The Directors' Plan provides for initial grants of restricted stock units to eligible directors upon the commencement of their service on the Board and for annual grants of restricted stock units thereafter. It also provides for annual cash retainers for eligible directors, and additional cash retainers for the lead director and the chairs of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board. Only directors of the Company who are not employees of the Company or any affiliate of the Company are eligible to participate in the Directors' Plan. The total number of shares of common stock of the Company subject to awards under the Directors' Plan is 500,000, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. A copy of the Directors' Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and incorporated herein by reference. An award agreement may contain additional terms and restrictions, including vesting conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Directors' Plan, as the plan administrators may determine.
 
The information included in Item 3.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.03.
 
The exhibits accompanying this report are listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 3.1
Section 1.01The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.
. Delaware Office.
Section 1.02The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
. Other Offices.
Section 1.03. The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's principal offices or at such other locations inside or outside the State of Delaware as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Books and Records.
Section 2.01The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such date, place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
. Annual Meeting.
Section 2.02Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation (the "") or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the stockholders may be called at any time only by the Secretary at the direction of the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors.
. Special Meeting.
Preferred Stock
Section 2.03The Board of Directors may designate the place of meeting for any meeting of the stockholders. If no designation is made by the Board of Directors, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation, which will be 2500 Lake Cook Road, Riverwoods, Illinois.
. Place of Meeting.
Section 2.04A notice of meeting, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in the case of special meetings, the purpose or purposes for which such special meeting is called, shall be prepared and delivered by the Corporation not less than ten days nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, either personally, or by mail, or, to the extent and in the manner permitted by applicable law, electronically, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be canceled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
. Notice of Meeting.
Section 2.05Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the ""), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of such business. The Chairman of the Board or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of Voting Stock so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum (or, in the case of specified business to be voted on by a class or series, the Chairman of the Board or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or series so represented may adjourn the meeting with respect to such specified business). No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
. Quorum and Adjournment.
Voting Stock
Section 2.06At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy as may be permitted by law; , that no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. Any proxy to be used at a meeting of stockholders must be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation or his or her representative at or before the time of the meeting.
. Proxies.
provided
 
Section 2.07
. Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations.
(a) . (i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (A) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 2.04 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws (or any supplement thereto), (B) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (C) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 2.07(a) and who was a stockholder of record on the date such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
(ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of paragraph (a)(i) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and, in the case of business other than nominations, such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth day, nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; that (1) if the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than thirty days, or delayed by more than ninety days, from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation or (2) if no annual meeting was held in the preceding year, notice by the stockholders to be timely must be so delivered not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described in this Section 2.07(a). Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (A) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (B) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the
provided, however,
Exchange Act
 
text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and if such business includes a proposal to amend the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Corporation, the text of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (C) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (1) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (2) the class and number of shares of the Corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner and (3) a representation as to whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group that intends to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination. The foregoing notice requirements of this Bylaw shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of the stockholder's intention to present a proposal or nomination at an annual meeting in compliance with applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal or nomination has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation and the impact that such service would have on the ability of the Corporation to satisfy the requirements of laws, rules, regulations and listing standards applicable to the Corporation or its directors.
(iii) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of clause (ii) of this Section 2.07(a) to the contrary, if the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and the public announcement by the Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships is not made by the close of business on the one hundredth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new directorships created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(b) . Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Section 2.04 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of
Special Meetings of Stockholders
 
stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. If the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any stockholder entitled to vote in such election may nominate such number of persons for election to such position(s) as are specified in the Corporation's Notice of Meeting, if the stockholder's notice as required by clause (ii) of Section 2.07(a) of these Amended and Restated Bylaws shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(c) . (i) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected as directors at a meeting of stockholders and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, the Chairman of the Board shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
General
(ii) For purposes of this Bylaw, "" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
public announcement
(iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to applicable rules and regulations
 
under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 2.08Except as otherwise provided by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all matters other than the election of directors submitted to the stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon, and where a separate vote by class is required, a majority of the voting power of the shares of that class present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon.
. Procedure for Election of Directors; Voting.
The vote on any matter, including the election of directors, shall be by written ballot. Each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by such stockholder's proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted.
Section 2.09(a) The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may not be directors, officers or employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are unable to act, at a meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the Board shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
. Inspector of Elections; Opening and Closing of Polls; Conduct of Meetings.
(b) The Chairman of the Board shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at the meeting.
(c) The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the person presiding over any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to convene and to adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding person, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the presiding person of the meeting,
 
may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding person of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. The presiding person at any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a matter or business was not properly brought before the meeting and if such presiding person should so determine, such presiding person shall so declare to the meeting and any such matter or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted or considered. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the person presiding over the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
Section 2.10All proxies, ballots and votes, in each case to the extent they disclose the specific vote of an identified stockholder, shall be tabulated and certified by an independent tabulator, inspector of elections and/or other independent parties and shall not be disclosed to any director, officer or employee of the Corporation; , , that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any and all proxies, ballots, and voting tabulations may be disclosed: (a) as necessary to meet legal requirements or to assist in the pursuit or defense of legal action; (b) if the Corporation concludes in good faith that a bona fide dispute exists as to the authenticity of one or more proxies, ballots or votes, or as to the accuracy of any tabulation of such proxies, ballots or votes; (c) in the event of a proxy, consent or other solicitation in opposition to the voting recommendation of the Board of Directors; or (d) if the stockholder requests, or consents to disclosure of the stockholder's vote or writes comments on the stockholder's proxy card or ballot.
. Confidential Stockholder Voting.
provided
however
Section 3.01The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Amended and Restated Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or by these Amended and Restated Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
. General Powers.
 
Section 3.02(a) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors ("") under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, but shall consist of not less than three nor more than fifteen directors (exclusive of Preferred Stock Directors). However, no decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
. Number, Tenure and Qualifications.
Preferred Stock Directors
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 3.02, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that director's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, that if, as of the tenth day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders of the Corporation, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a ""), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast. For purposes of this Section 3.02, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of votes cast "" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "" that director's election (with "" and "" not counted as a vote cast either "" or "" that director's election).
provided
Contested Election
for
against
abstentions
broker nonvotes
for
against
(c) In order for any incumbent director to become a nominee of the Board of Directors for further service on the Board of Directors, such person must submit an irrevocable resignation, that such resignation shall be effective if (i) that person shall not receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, and (ii) the Board of Directors shall accept that resignation in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Directors for such purpose. In the event an incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, the nominating and governance committee of the Board of Directors, or such other committee designated by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 3.09 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of such incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act on the resignation, taking into account the committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release and filing an appropriate disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission) its decision regarding the resignation and, if such resignation is rejected, the rationale behind the decision within 90 days following certification of the election results.
provided
(d) If the Board of Directors accepts a director's resignation pursuant to this Section 3.02, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to Article 7 of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.02.
 
Section 3.03The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of regular meetings without other notice than such resolution. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all regular meetings of the Board of Directors and in the absence of the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary, a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.
. Regular Meetings.
Section 3.04Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, or a majority of the Board of Directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all special meetings of the Board of Directors and in the absence of the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary, a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.
. Special Meetings.
Section 3.05Notice of any special meeting shall be mailed to each director at his or her business or residence not later than three days before the day on which such meeting is to be held or shall be sent to either of such places by telegraph or facsimile or other electronic transmission, or be communicated to each director personally or by telephone (including without limitation to a representative of the director or to the director's electronic voice message system), not later than the day before such day of meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Amended and Restated Bylaws as provided pursuant to Section 8.01 hereof. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present (except as otherwise provided by law) or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.04 hereof, either before or after such meeting.
. Notice.
Section 3.06Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
. Action Without Meeting.
Section 3.07Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
. Conference Telephone Meetings.
 
Section 3.08At all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the total number of directors specified in the resolution pursuant to Section 3.02 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (such total number of Directors, the "") shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. At all meetings of the committees of the Board of Directors, the presence of 50% or more of the total number of members (assuming no vacancies) shall constitute a quorum. The act of the directors or committee members present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, except as otherwise provided in the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee, a majority of the directors or members, as the case may be, present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting.
. Quorum.
entire Board of Directors
Section 3.09(a) The Corporation shall have three standing committees: the nominating and governance committee, the audit committee and the compensation committee. Each such standing committee shall consist of such number of directors of the Corporation and shall have such powers and authority as shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
. Committees.
(b) In addition, the Board of Directors may designate one or more additional committees, with each such committee consisting of such number of directors of the Corporation and having such powers and authority as shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
(c) All acts done by any committee within the scope of its powers and authority pursuant to these Amended and Restated Bylaws and the resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors in accordance with the terms hereof shall be deemed to be, and may be certified as being, done or conferred under authority of the Board of Directors. The Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is empowered to certify that any resolution duly adopted by any such committee is binding upon the Corporation and to execute and deliver such certifications from time to time as may be necessary or proper to the conduct of the business of the Corporation.
(d) Regular meetings of committees shall be held at such times as may be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors or the committee in question and no notice shall be required for any regular meeting other than such resolution. A special meeting of any committee shall be called by resolution of the Board of Directors, or by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary upon the request of the chairman or a majority of the members of such committee. Notice of special meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the same manner as that provided for in Section 3.05 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws.
 
Section 3.10(a) Each member of any committee of the Board of Directors shall hold office until such member's successor is elected and has qualified, unless such member sooner dies, resigns or is removed.
. Committee Members.
(b) The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee to fill any vacancy on a committee and to fill a vacant chairmanship of a committee, occurring as a result of a member or chairman leaving the committee, whether through death, resignation, removal or otherwise.
Section 3.11Each committee may elect a secretary for such committee. Unless otherwise determined by the committee, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all regular meetings and special meetings of the committee, and in the absence of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.
. Committee Secretary.
Section 3.12The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid compensation as director, lead director or chairman of any committee. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed compensation and payment of expenses.
. Compensation.
Section 4.01The Board shall elect a Chairman of the Board; a Chief Executive Officer; a President; a Chief Financial Officer; a General Counsel; a Secretary; one or more Assistant Secretaries; a Treasurer; one or more Assistant Treasurers; and such other officers as in the judgment of the Board of Directors may be necessary or desirable, including one or more Executive Vice Presidents, one or more Senior Vice Presidents and one or more Vice Presidents. All officers chosen by the Board of Directors shall have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this Article 4. Such officers shall also have powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or any committee thereof. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders or directors of the Corporation, except that the Chief Executive Officer shall be a member of the Board of Directors.
. General.
 
Section 4.02The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign or be removed.
. Election and Term of Office.
Section 4.03. The Chairman of the Board may be, but need not be, a person other than the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board may be, but need not be, an officer or employee of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board, if present, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and at all meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board, the duties of the Chairman of the Board shall be performed and the authority of the Chairman of the Board may be exercised by a director designated for this purpose by the Board of Directors.
. Chairman of the Board
Section 4.04The Chief Executive Officer shall be a member of the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall supervise, coordinate and manage the Corporation's business and activities and supervise, coordinate and manage its operating expenses and capital allocation, shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors.
. Chief Executive Officer.
Section 4.05The President shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the President of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
. President.
Section 4.06The Chief Financial Officer shall have responsibility for the financial affairs of the Corporation and shall exercise supervisory responsibility for the performance of the duties of the Treasurer. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
. Chief Financial Officer.
Section 4.07The General Counsel shall have responsibility for the legal affairs of the Corporation. The General Counsel shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the
. General Counsel.
 
Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 4.08A newly created office and a vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the terms at any meeting of the Board of Directors.
. Vacancies.
Section 5.01 (a) The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe; that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that all or some of all classes or series of the stock of the Corporation shall be represented by uncertificated shares. Every holder of stock represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated stock and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class and series shall be identical.
. Stock Certificates and Transfers.
provided
(b) Any or all of the signatures on the certificates (if any) representing the stock of the Corporation may be facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
(c) The shares of the stock of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his attorney, upon surrender for cancellation of certificates for the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares such uncertificated shares shall be canceled and issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares or certificated shares (if authorized) shall be made to the person entitled thereto and the transaction shall be recorded upon the books of the Corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of
 
uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or, unless otherwise provided by the Delaware General Corporation Law, a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
Section 5.02No certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of such evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or its designee may in its or his discretion require.
. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates.
Section 6.01The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as specified by the Board of Directors.
. Fiscal Year.
Section 6.02The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
. Dividends.
Section 6.03The corporate seal shall have thereon the name of the Corporation and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors or by any officer authorized to do so by the Board of Directors.
. Seal.
Section 6.04Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or any meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
. Waiver of Notice.
Section 6.05The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant.
. Audits.
 
Section 6.06Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time upon notice of such resignation to the Corporation.
. Resignations.
Section 6.07(a) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any manner in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or a director or officer of a Subsidiary, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted from time to time by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, if permitted by applicable law, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect, and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; that the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors or is a proceeding to enforce such person's claim to indemnification pursuant to the rights granted by this Bylaw. The Corporation shall pay the expenses incurred by such person in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition upon receipt (unless the Corporation upon authorization of the Board of Directors waives such requirement to the extent permitted by applicable law) of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Bylaw or otherwise.
. Indemnification and Insurance.
provided, however,
(b) The indemnification and the advancement of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding prior to its final disposition provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, other provision of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal, modification or amendment of, or adoption of any provision inconsistent with, this Section 6.07, nor to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any modification of law, shall adversely affect any right or protection of any person granted pursuant hereto existing at, or with respect to any events that occurred prior to, the time of such repeal, amendment, adoption or modification.
(c) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any person who is or was a director, officer, partner, member, employee
 
or agent of the Corporation or a Subsidiary or of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(d) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any person who is or was an employee or agent (other than a director or officer) of the Corporation or a Subsidiary and to any person who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or a Subsidiary as a director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
(e) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, the legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph or clause of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
(f) For purposes of these Amended and Restated Bylaws:
(1) "" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the proceeding or matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
Disinterested Director
(2) "" means any corporation, trust, limited liability company or other non-corporate business enterprise in which the Corporation directly or indirectly holds ownership interests representing (A) more than 50% of the voting power of all outstanding ownership interests of such entity (other than directors' qualifying shares, in the case of a corporation) or (B) the right to receive more than 50% of the net assets of such entity available for distribution to the holders of outstanding ownership interests upon a liquidation or dissolution of such entity.
Subsidiary
 
(g) Any notice, request, or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary or the General Counsel or any designee of the Secretary or the General Counsel and shall be effective only upon receipt by such officer or designee.
Section 7.01Except as otherwise required by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. Subject to the control and direction of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, the General Counsel and the Treasurer may enter into, execute, deliver and amend bonds, promissory notes, contracts, agreements, deeds, leases, guarantees, loans, commitments, obligations, liabilities and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors, such officers of the Corporation may delegate such powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power.
. Contracts.
Section 7.02Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or entity, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation or entity, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation or entity, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such vote or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
. Proxies.
 
Section 8.01These Amended and Restated Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new Amended and Restated Bylaws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors at any meeting thereof; that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new Amended and Restated Bylaws is contained in the notice of such meeting of stockholders or in the notice of such meeting of the Board of Directors and, in the latter case, such notice is given not less than twenty-four hours prior to the meeting. Unless a higher percentage is required by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation as to any matter which is the subject of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all such amendments must be approved by either the holders of eighty percent (80%) of the Voting Stock or by a majority of the Board of Directors.
. Amendments.
provided, however,
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
. The primary purposes of the Discover Financial Services Omnibus Incentive Plan are to attract, retain and motivate employees, to compensate them for their contributions to the growth and profits of the Company and to encourage them to own Discover Financial Services Stock.
1. Purpose
. Except as otherwise provided in an applicable Award Document, the following capitalized terms shall have the meanings indicated below for purposes of the Plan and any Award:
2. Definitions
"" means the individual or individuals to whom the Committee delegates authority under the Plan in accordance with Section 5(b).
Administrator
"" means any award of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Options, SARs or Other Awards (or any combination thereof) made under and pursuant to the terms of the Plan.
Award
"" means the date specified in a Participant's Award Document as the grant date of the Award.
Award Date
"" means a written document (including in electronic form) that sets forth the terms and conditions of an Award. Award Documents shall be authorized in accordance with Section 12(e).
Award Document
"" means the Board of Directors of Discover.
Board
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the applicable rulings, regulations and guidance thereunder.
Code
"" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, any successor committee thereto or any other committee of the Board appointed by the Board to administer the Plan or to have authority with respect to the Plan, or any subcommittee appointed by such Committee.
Committee
"" means Discover Financial Services and all of its Subsidiaries.
Company
"" means Discover Financial Services, a Delaware corporation.
Discover
"" means the individuals described in Section 6 who are eligible for Awards.
Eligible Individuals
"" means, with respect to a Share, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee.
Fair Market Value
"" means an Option that is intended to qualify for special federal income tax treatment pursuant to sections 421 and 422 of the Code, as now constituted or subsequently amended, or pursuant to a successor provision of the Code, and which is so designated in the applicable Award Document.
Incentive Stock Option
 
"" or "" means a right, granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9, to purchase one Share.
Option
Stock Option
"" means any other form of award authorized under Section 11 of the Plan, including any such Other Award the receipt of which was elected pursuant to Section 12(a).
Other Award
"" means an individual to whom an Award has been made.
Participant
"" shall mean any period designated by the Committee, including any partial year, annual or multi-year period as determined by the Committee in its discretion, during which (i) the Section 162(m) Performance Goals applicable to an Award shall be measured and (ii) the conditions to vesting applicable to an Award shall remain in effect.
Performance Period
"" means the Discover Financial Services Omnibus Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time in accordance with Section 16(e) below.
Plan
"" shall mean an Option or Restricted Stock Units granted in connection with the spin-off of the Company pursuant to the Employee Matters Agreement entered into by the Company and Morgan Stanley dated as of June 30, 2007.
Replacement Awards
"" means Shares granted or sold to a Participant pursuant to Section 7.
Restricted Stock
"" means a right, granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8, to receive one Share or an amount in cash equal to the Fair Market Value of one Share, as authorized by the Committee.
Restricted Stock Unit
"" means a right, granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10, to receive upon exercise of such right, in cash or Shares (or a combination thereof) as authorized by the Committee, an amount equal to the increase in the Fair Market Value of one Share over a specified exercise price.
SAR
"" means, for a given fiscal year of Discover, any Participant designated by the Committee as a Participant whose compensation may be subject to the limit on deductible compensation imposed by section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor provisions thereto).
Section 162(m) Participant
"" means any one or more of the following measures, each of which may be based on absolute standards or peer industry group comparatives and may be applied at various organizational levels (e.g., corporate, business unit, division): the attainment by a Share of a specified value within or for a specified period of time, earnings per share, earnings before interest expense and taxes, return to stockholders (including dividends), return on equity, earnings, revenues, cash flow or cost reduction goals, operating profit, pretax return on total capital, economic value added, or any combination of the foregoing. The measures may pertain to Performance Periods of any duration, and may be weighted differently for Participants based on their management level and the extent to which their responsibilities are
Section 162(m) Performance Goals
 
primarily corporate or business unit-related, and may be based in whole or in part on the performance of the Company, a Subsidiary, division and/or other operational unit under one or more of such measures. In the sole discretion of the Committee, but subject to section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may amend or adjust the Section 162(m) Performance Goals or other terms and conditions of an outstanding Award in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements or changes in law or accounting principles.
"" means section 409A of the Code (or any successor provisions thereto).
Section 409A
"" means shares of Stock.
Shares
"" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Discover Financial Services.
Stock
"" means (i) a corporation or other entity with respect to which Discover, directly or indirectly, has the power, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, to elect at least a majority of the members of such corporation's board of directors or analogous governing body, or (ii) any other corporation or other entity in which Discover, directly or indirectly, has an equity or similar interest and which the Committee designates as a Subsidiary for purposes of the Plan.
Subsidiary
"" means Awards granted upon assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by a company or other entity acquired (directly or indirectly) by Discover or with which Discover combines.
Substitute Awards
3. Effective Date and Term of Plan.
 
 
4. Stock Subject to Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Administration.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. Eligible Individuals shall include all officers and other employees (including prospective employees) of the Company, as the Committee in its sole discretion may select form time to time. Any Award made to a prospective employee shall be conditioned upon, and effective not earlier than, such person's becoming an employee. Members of the Board who are not Company employees will not be eligible to receive Awards under the Plan. An individual's status as an Administrator will not affect his or her eligibility to receive Awards under the Plan. In connection with the spin-off of the Company, certain current and former employees of Morgan Stanley will receive Replacement Awards.
6. Eligibility
. An Award of Restricted Stock shall be subject to the terms and conditions established by the Committee in connection with the Award and specified in the applicable Award Document. Restricted Stock may, among other things, be subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or cancellation under specified circumstances.
7. Restricted Stock
. An Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the terms and conditions established by the Committee in connection with the Award and specified in the applicable Award Document. Each Restricted Stock Unit awarded to a Participant shall correspond to one Share. Upon satisfaction of the terms and conditions of the Award, a Restricted Stock Unit will be payable, at the discretion of the Committee, in Stock or in cash equal to the Fair Market Value on the payment date of one Share. As a holder of Restricted Stock Units, a Participant shall have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of Discover. A Participant shall not be a stockholder with respect to the Shares underlying Restricted Stock Units unless and until the Restricted Stock Units convert to Shares. Restricted Stock Units may, among other things, be subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or cancellation under specified circumstances.
8. Restricted Stock Units
.
9. Options
 
 
 
 
 
 
. An Award of SARs shall be subject to the terms and conditions established by the Committee in connection with the Award and specified in the applicable Award Document. The Committee shall establish (or shall authorize the method for establishing) the exercise price of all SARs awarded under the Plan, except that the exercise price of a SAR shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Award Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the exercise price of any
10. SARs
 
SAR that is a Substitute Award may be less than the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Award Date, subject to the same conditions set forth in Section 9(a) for Options that are Substitute Awards. Upon satisfaction of the conditions to the payment of the Award, each SAR shall entitle a Participant to an amount, if any, equal to the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise over the SAR exercise price specified in the applicable Award Document. At the discretion of the Committee, payments to a Participant upon exercise of a SAR may be made in Shares, cash or a combination thereof. SARs and the Shares that may be acquired upon exercise of SARs may, among other things, be subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or cancellation under specified circumstances.
. The Committee shall have the authority to establish the terms and provisions of other forms of equity-based or equity-related Awards (such terms and provisions to be specified in the applicable Award Document) not described above that the Committee determines to be consistent with the purpose of the Plan and the interests of the Company, which Awards may provide for (i) cash or Stock payments based in whole or in part on the value or future value of Stock or on any amount that Discover pays as dividends or otherwise distributes with respect to Stock, (ii) the acquisition or future acquisition of Stock, (iii) cash or Stock payments (including payment of dividend equivalents in cash or Stock) based on one or more criteria determined by the Committee unrelated to the value of Stock, or (iv) any combination of the foregoing. The Committee also shall have the authority, without limitation, to grant annual cash incentive awards to Eligible Individuals and to establish the terms and provisions of such cash incentive awards, including the establishment of Section 162(m) Performance Goals for any cash incentive award; , that in no event shall the amount of a cash award payable to a Participant on account of attainment of Section 162(m) Performance Goals for any Performance Period exceed $10,000,000 (Ten Million Dollars). Awards pursuant to this Section 11 may, among other things, be made subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or cancellation under specified circumstances.
11. Other Awards
provided, however
.
12. General Terms and Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
13. Certain Restrictions
 
 
. Without amending this Plan, the Committee may grant Awards to eligible persons who are foreign nationals on such terms and conditions different from those specified in this Plan, including the terms of any plan, adopted by any Subsidiary to comply with, or take advantage of favorable tax or other treatment available under, the law of any foreign jurisdiction, as may in the judgment of the Committee be necessary or desirable to foster and promote achievement of the purposes of this Plan and, in furtherance of such purposes the Committee may make such modifications, amendments, procedures, subplans and the like as may be necessary or advisable to comply with provisions of laws in other countries or jurisdictions in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operates or has employees.
14. Foreign Employees
 
. The Committee may condition the grant, exercise, settlement or retention of any Award on the Participant making any representations required in the applicable Award Document. Each Award shall also be conditioned upon the making of any filings and the receipt of any consents or authorizations required to comply with, or required to be obtained under, applicable law.
15. Representation; Compliance with Law
.
16. Miscellaneous Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
The purpose of the Discover Financial Services Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "") is to provide employees of Discover Financial Services, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and its Subsidiary Companies (as defined below) that are designated to participate in the Plan the opportunity to participate in the ownership of the Company and to encourage increased efforts to promote the best interests of the Company and the Subsidiary Companies by permitting eligible employees to purchase shares of common stock, $.01 par value, of the Company ("") at below-market prices. The Plan is intended to qualify as an "employee stock purchase plan" under section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""). For purposes of the Plan, the term "" shall mean all corporations which are subsidiary corporations (within the meaning of section 424(f) of the Code) and of which the Company is the common parent. The Company and its Subsidiary Companies that, from time to time, are designated by the Company to participate in the Plan are sometimes hereinafter called collectively the "."
1. .
Purpose
Plan
Company
Common Stock
Code
Subsidiary Companies
Participating Companies
Participation in the Plan shall be open to each employee of a Participating Company who has satisfied rules and conditions established by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "") from time to time (an ""); provided, however that such rules shall neither permit nor deny participation in the Plan contrary to the requirements of the Code (including by not limited to, Section 423(b)(3),(4),(5), and (8) thereof) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Each Eligible Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan beginning on the later of:
2. .
Eligibility
Board
Eligible Employee
(a) the first day of the first month following the date the employee has completed one year of service for the Participating Companies, provided that he is still employed on such date, and
(b) the date such employee becomes an Eligible Employee.
No right to purchase Common Stock hereunder shall accrue under the Plan on behalf of any person who is not an Eligible Employee as of the first day of a Purchase Period (as defined in Section 3). Notwithstanding the foregoing, any employee of a Participating Company who on June 30, 2007 was eligible to participate in the Morgan Stanley Employee Stock Purchase Plan or who, on the Effective Date (as defined in Section 3) would have been so eligible if he or she had then been employed by Morgan Stanley shall be an Eligible Employee as of the Effective Date.
No Eligible Employee shall acquire a right to purchase Common Stock hereunder if immediately after receiving such right, such employee would own 5% or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary Company (including any stock attributable to such employee under section 424(d) of the Code or which the employee may purchase under outstanding options (including the right to purchase Common Stock under the Plan)).
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, each Eligible Employee's right to purchase Common Stock hereunder shall be restricted so that no Eligible Employee's right to purchase Common Stock under all employee stock purchase plans qualified under section 423 of the Code and maintained by the Company or any of its Subsidiary Companies accrues at a rate which exceeds $25,000 of Fair Market Value (determined as of the date on which the options under each such plan are considered granted pursuant to section 423 of the Code) (or such other amount as may be specified under section 423 of the Code) for a calendar year.
The Plan shall become effective on October 1, 2007, or such later date as may be determined by the Committee (as defined in Section 16) (the "Effective Date"), provided that this Plan is approved by the Company's shareholder prior to the date the Company's shares are traded on a national stock exchange. Eligible Employees shall be permitted to purchase shares of Common Stock as soon as practicable after each Purchase Period during the term of the Plan. A "" under the Plan shall be such period as shall be determined by the Committee; provided, however, that in no event shall such period be longer than twenty-seven (27) months.
3. .
Effective Date of Plan; Purchase Periods
Purchase Period
Subject to compliance with applicable rules prescribed by the Committee each Eligible Employee shall be entitled to enroll in the Plan as of the first day of any Purchase Period which begins on or after such Eligible Employee has satisfied the eligibility requirements in Section 2 of the Plan.
4.
.
Basis of Participation; Payroll Deductions
To enroll in the Plan, an Eligible Employee shall make a request to the Company or its designated agent at the time and in the manner specified by the Committee, specifying the amount of payroll deduction to be applied to the Compensation (as defined below) earned by the employee during each payroll period during the Purchase Period. The Committee may determine and specify, from time to time, (i) the range of permissible percentages of a participant's Compensation an Eligible Employee may specify as a payroll deduction and (ii) the maximum amount, if any, of Compensation that may be deducted for an Eligible Employee in any year, and provided further, that no such determination shall be contrary to the requirements of section 423 of the Code and the regulation promulgated thereunder. Subject to compliance with applicable rules prescribed by the Committee, the request shall be credited as soon as practicable following the Purchase Period. For purposes of the Plan, a participant's "" shall mean the sum of the types and amounts of compensation determined from time to time by the Committee in its sole discretion to be eligible to be taken into account under the Plan, provided that no such determination shall include or exclude any type or amount of compensation contrary to the requirements of section 423 of the Code and any regulations promulgated thereunder. Each Eligible Employee shall be advised of the Purchase Price (as defined in Section 5) before enrolling in the Plan.
Compensation
Payroll deductions shall be made for each participant in accordance with such participant's request until such participant's participation in the Plan terminates, such participant's payroll deductions are suspended, such participant's request is revised or the Plan terminates, all as hereinafter provided.
 
Following his or her enrollment in the Plan, a participant may change the amount of his or her payroll deduction effective as of the first day of any Purchase Period by so directing the Company or its designated agent at the time and in the manner specified by the Committee. A participant may not change the amount of his or her payroll deduction effective as of any date other than the first day of a Purchase Period, except that a participant may elect to suspend his or her payroll deductions under the Plan as provided in Section 7.
Payroll deductions for each participant shall be credited to a purchase account established on behalf of the participant on the books of the participant's employer or such employer's designated agent (a ""). As soon as practicable following the end of each Purchase Period, the amount in each participant's Purchase Account will be applied to the purchase of the number of whole and fractional shares of Common Stock determined by dividing such amount by the Purchase Price (as defined in Section 5) for such Purchase Period. No interest shall accrue at any time for any amount credited to a Purchase Account of a participant.
Purchase Account
The Committee may, in its discretion, establish additional procedures whereby Eligible Employees may participate in the Plan by means other than payroll deduction. Such other methods of participating shall be subject to such rules and conditions as the Committee may establish. The Committee may at any time amend, suspend or terminate any participation procedures established pursuant to this paragraph without prior notice to any participant or Eligible Employee.
The purchase price (the "") per share of Common Stock hereunder shall be expressed as a percentage of Fair Market Value (as defined below) for any Purchase Period and shall be determined from time to time by the Board, but in no event shall such purchase price be less than 85% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the last day of such Purchase Period. If such sum results in a fraction of one cent, the Purchase Price shall be increased to the next higher full cent. For purposes of the Plan, the "" of a share of Common Stock on a given day shall be the average of the high and low sales price of a share of Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange (or such other exchange on which shares of Common Stock are listed) on the date as of which such value is being determined or, if there shall be no reported transactions on such date, on the next preceding date for which a transaction was reported. In no event, however, shall the Purchase Price be less than the par value of a share of Common Stock. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event the Board determines pursuant to this Section 5 to change the Purchase Price, each participant shall be advised in advance of the effective date of such change and afforded the opportunity to make a change in participation under Section 4 and Section 7.
5. .
Purchase Price
Purchase Price
Fair Market Value
The Common Stock purchased by each participant shall be posted to such participant's Purchase Account as soon as practicable after, and credited to such participant's Purchase Account as of, the last day of the Purchase Period with respect to which the Common Stock was purchased. Except as provided in Section 7 and Section 8, a participant (or his or her legal representative, as appropriate) will be issued his or her shares when his or her participation in the Plan is terminated pursuant to Section 7(b), the Plan is terminated or upon request, but, in the last case, only in whole shares.
6. .
Purchase Accounts and Issuance of Shares
 
The Committee may permit or require that shares be deposited directly with a broker designated by the Committee or to a designated agent of the Company, and the Committee may use electronic or automated methods of share transfer. The Committee may require that shares be retained with such broker or agent for a designated period of time and/or may establish other procedures to permit tracking of disqualifying dispositions of such shares.
(a) . A participant may elect at the time and in the manner specified by the Committee to suspend his or her participation in the Plan, provided such election is received by the Company or its designated agent prior to the date specified by the Committee for suspension of participation with respect to the Purchase Period for which such suspension is to be effective. Upon any suspension of participation, the participant's payroll deductions shall cease, and if the participant elects, the cash credited to such participant's Purchase Account on the date of such suspension shall be delivered as soon as practicable to such participant. If the participant does not elect to receive such cash, such cash shall be applied to the purchase of shares of Common Stock, as described in Sections 4, 5 and 6 hereof. A participant who elects to suspend participation in the Plan shall be permitted to resume participation in the next following Purchase Period by making a new request to participate at the time and in the manner described in Section 4 hereof.
7. .
Suspension and Termination of Participation
Suspension of Payroll Deductions
(b) . If the participant dies, terminates employment with the Participating Companies for any reason, including a termination due to disability or retirement, or otherwise ceases to be an Eligible Employee, such participant's participation in the Plan shall immediately terminate. Upon such terminating event, any cash credited to such participant's Purchase Account on the date of such termination shall be delivered as soon as practicable to such participant or his or her legal representative, as the case may be, and the number of full shares of Common Stock held for his or her benefit, and a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value of any fractional share so held, shall be delivered to the participant or his or her legal representative, as the case may be, as soon as practicable after such termination.
Termination of Participation
(c) . Unless the Committee otherwise determines, a participant on a paid leave of absence shall continue to be a participant in the Plan so long as such participant is on such paid leave of absence. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a participant on an unpaid leave of absence shall not be entitled to participate in the Plan after such unpaid leave has begun but shall not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of the Plan. A participant who, upon failing to return to work following a leave of absence, is deemed not to be an employee, shall not be entitled to participate in the Plan after such termination of employment, and such participant's Purchase Account shall be paid out in accordance with Section 7(b).
Leaves of Absence
The Company, by action of the Board, may terminate the Plan at any time, in which case notice of such termination shall be given to all participants, but any failure to give such notice shall not impair the effectiveness of the termination.
8. .
Termination or Amendment of the Plan
Without any action being required, the Plan shall terminate in any event when the maximum number of shares of Common Stock to be sold under the Plan (as provided in Section 17) has been purchased. If at any time the number of shares of Common Stock remaining available for purchase under the Plan is not sufficient to satisfy all then-outstanding purchase rights, the Board or Committee may determine an equitable basis of apportioning available shares of Common Stock among all participants.
 
The Company, by action of the Board, may amend the Plan from time to time in any respect for any reason; , , that the Plan may not be amended in any manner that will retroactively impair or otherwise adversely affect the rights of any person to benefits under the Plan which have accrued prior to the date of such action and no such amendment shall increase the maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be purchased under the Plan unless such increase is approved by the stockholders of the Company in accordance with section 423 of the Code.
provided
however
Rights acquired under the Plan are not transferable and may be exercised only by a participant.
9. .
Non-Transferability
All ordinary or regular cash dividends paid with respect to shares of Common Stock held in a participant's Purchase Account shall be invested automatically in shares of Common Stock purchased at 100 percent of Fair Market Value on the date such dividend is paid. All ordinary or regular non-cash dividends paid on Common Stock held in a participant's Purchase Account shall be paid to the participant as soon as practicable.
10. .
Dividends on Shares
A participant or former participant who has terminated employment with the Participating Companies may sell his or her shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan pursuant to the procedures established from time to time by the Administrator.
11. .
Sales through the Plan
No Eligible Employee or participant shall by reason of the Plan have any rights of a stockholder of the Company until he or she shall acquire a share of Common Stock as herein provided.
12. .
Stockholder's Rights
Nothing in the Plan shall impose an obligation on any Participating Company to continue the employment of a participant or shall lessen or affect a Participating Company's right to terminate the employment of a participant at any time for any reason.
13. .
No Right to Continued Employment
As a condition to receiving shares hereunder, the Company may require the participant to make a cash payment to the Company of, or the Company may withhold from any shares distributable under the Plan, an amount necessary to satisfy all Federal, state, city or other taxes required to be withheld in respect of such payments pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling.
14. .
Withholding
To the extent permitted by law, the Company shall have the absolute right to withhold any amounts payable to any Participant under the terms of the Plan to the extent of any amount owed for any reason by such Participant to the Company or any Subsidiary and to set off and apply the amounts so withheld to payment of any such amount owed to the Company or any Subsidiary, whether or not such amount shall then be immediately due and payable and in such order or priority as among such amounts owed as the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
15. .
Offsets
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the ""). The Committee shall have full power and authority to: (i) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement entered into under the Plan; (ii) establish such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; and (iii) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for administration of the Plan, provided, however, that any exercise of discretion granted to the Committee pursuant to the Plan shall be exercised in a manner consistent with Section 423 of the Code. Decisions of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all persons, including the Company, each participant and each other employee of the Company. The Committee may delegate to any committee, person (whether or not an employee of a Participating Company) or entity any of its responsibilities or duties hereunder. The Plan shall be interpreted and administered so as to ensure that all participants have the same rights and privileges, as provided by section 423(b)(5) of the Code.
16. .
Administration of the Plan
Committee
The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be purchased under the Plan is 3,000,000 subject to adjustment as hereinafter set forth. Shares of Common Stock sold hereunder may be treasury shares, authorized and unissued shares, shares purchased in the open market (on an exchange or in negotiated transactions) or any combination thereof.
17. .
Maximum Number of Shares
In the event of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination, exchange of shares, liquidation, spin-off or other similar change in capitalization or event, or any distribution to holders of shares of Common Stock other than a regular cash dividend, the maximum number and class of securities which may be purchased under the Plan and the purchase price per security shall be appropriately adjusted by the Board. The decision of the Board regarding any such adjustment shall be final, binding and conclusive. If any such adjustment would result in a fractional security being available under the Plan, such fractional security shall be disregarded. The provisions of the Plan shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, all successors of the Company and each participant, including, without limitation, such Participant's estate and all executors, administrators or trustees thereof, heirs and legatees, and any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or representative of creditors of such participant.
18. .
Changes in the Company's Capital Structure
In the event of a merger or other transaction involving the Company in which shares of Common Stock are exchanged for stock, securities, cash or other property, each option under the Plan shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted by the successor corporation in such transaction, or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation. The Board may elect, however, in the exercise of its sole discretion and in lieu of such assumption or substitution, to shorten the Purchase Period then in effect by establishing a new purchase date or to cancel the Purchase Period and refund all amounts credited to each participant's Purchase Account. If the Board shortens the Purchase Period then in effect, the Company shall make its best efforts to notify each participant of such change at least 10 business days prior to the new purchase date, and allow participants to elect to receive the cash credited to their Purchase Accounts in accordance with Section 7(a).
19. .
Merger or Other Corporate Change
A participant may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any shares and cash, if any, from the participant's account under the Plan in the event of such participant's death subsequent to the last day of a Purchase Period but
20. .
Designation of Beneficiary
 
prior to delivery to such participant of such shares and cash. In addition, a participant may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any cash from the participant's account under the Plan in the event of such participant's death prior to the last day of a Purchase Period. If a participant is married and the designated beneficiary is not the participant's spouse, spousal consent shall be required for such designation to be effective. Such designation of beneficiary may be changed by the participant at any time by written notice. In the event of the death of a participant and in the absence of a beneficiary validly designated under the Plan who is living at the time of such participant's death, the Company shall deliver such shares and/or cash to the executor or administrator of the estate of the participant, or if no such executor or administrator has been appointed (to the knowledge of the Company), the Company, in its discretion, may deliver such shares and/or cash to the spouse or to any one or more dependents or relatives of the participant, or if no spouse, dependent or relative is known to the Company, then to such other person as the Company may designate. All beneficiary designations shall be in such form and manner as the Company may designate from time to time.
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, (i) any request, election or notice under the Plan from an Eligible Employee or participant shall be transmitted or delivered to the Company or its designated agent in the manner specified by the Committee and, subject to any limitations specified in the Plan, shall be effective when so delivered and (ii) any request, notice or other communication from the Company or its designated agent that is transmitted or delivered to Eligible Employees or participants shall be effective when so transmitted or delivered.
21. .
Notices
The Plan, and the Company's obligation to sell and deliver shares of Common Stock hereunder, shall be subject to all applicable federal and state laws, rules and regulations, and to such approval by any regulatory or governmental agency as may, in the sole discretion of the Company, be required or desirable.
22. .
Compliance with Statutes and Regulations
The Plan and all determinations made hereunder and actions taken pursuant hereto, to the extent not otherwise governed by the Code or the laws of the United States, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware and construed in accordance therewith without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
23. .
Governing Law
To the extent permitted under section 423 of the Code, without the amendment of the Plan, the Committee may provide for the participation in the Plan by Eligible Employees who are subject to the laws of foreign countries or jurisdictions on such terms and conditions different from those specified in the Plan as may in the judgment of the Committee be necessary or desirable to foster and promote achievement of the purposes of the Plan and, in furtherance of such purposes the Committee may make such modifications, amendments, procedures, subplans and the like as may be necessary or advisable to comply with provisions of laws of other countries or jurisdictions in which the Participating Companies operate or have employees.
24. .
International Participants
 

EXHIBIT 10.3
Section 1. Purpose
Discover Financial Services, a Delaware corporation (the ""), hereby adopts the Discover Financial Services Directors' Compensation Plan (the ""). The purpose of the Plan is to set forth the annual compensation for non-employee directors and to promote the long-term growth and financial success of the Company by attracting, motivating and retaining non-employee directors of outstanding ability and assisting the Company in promoting a greater identity of interest between the Company's non-employee directors and its stockholders.
Company
Plan
Capitalized terms used herein without definition have the meanings ascribed thereto in Section 20.
Section 2. Eligibility
Only directors of the Company who are not employees of the Company or any affiliate of the Company (the "") are eligible to participate in the Plan.
Eligible Directors
Section 3. Plan Operation
(a) . The Plan requires no discretionary action by any administrative body with regard to any transaction under the Plan. To the extent, if any, that questions of administration arise, these shall be resolved by the Board. The Board may, in its discretion, delegate to the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Legal Officer, the Secretary of the Company or to one or more officers of the Company any or all authority and responsibility to act pursuant to the Plan. All references to the "Plan Administrators" in the Plan shall refer to the Board, or the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Legal Officer, the Secretary or to one or more officers of the Company if the Board has delegated its authority pursuant to this Section 3(a). The determination of the Plan Administrators on all matters within their authority relating to the Plan shall be conclusive.
Administration
(b) . The Plan Administrators shall not be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any award hereunder, and the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless the Plan Administrators from all losses and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) arising from the assertion or judicial determination of any such liability.
No Liability
Section 4. Shares of Stock Subject to the Plan
(a) . Awards under the Plan shall relate to shares of Stock.
Stock
(b) . Subject to Section 4(c) (relating to adjustments upon changes in capitalization), as of any date, the total number of shares of Stock with respect to which awards may be granted under the Plan shall be equal to the excess (if any) of (i) 500,000 shares over (ii) the sum of (a) the number of shares subject to outstanding awards granted under
Shares Available for Awards
the Plan and (b) the number of shares previously issued pursuant to the Plan. In accordance with (and without limitation upon) the preceding sentence, shares of Stock covered by awards granted under the Plan that are canceled or expire unexercised shall again become available for awards under the Plan. Shares of Stock that are issuable pursuant to the awards granted under the Plan shall be authorized and unissued shares, treasury shares or shares of Stock purchased by, or on behalf of, the Company in open-market transactions.
(c) . In the event of any merger, reorganization, recapitalization, consolidation, sale or other distribution of substantially all of the assets of the Company, any stock dividend, split, spin-off, split-up, split-off, distribution of cash, securities or other property by the Company, or other change in the Company's corporate structure affecting the Stock, then the following shall be automatically adjusted in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be awarded under the Plan:
Adjustments
(i) the aggregate number of shares of Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan,
(ii) the number and, if applicable, type of shares of Stock subject to outstanding awards,
(iii) the number of Restricted Stock Units credited pursuant to Sections 5(a) of the Plan, and
(iv) the number of shares to be granted pursuant to any other automatic awards that may be provided for under the Plan in the future.
(d) . The Company's stockholders approved the Plan on June 13, 2007. The types of awards authorized by the stockholders under the Plan are Retainers and Restricted Stock Units.
Types of Award
Section 5. Initial and Annual Awards of Restricted Stock Units
(a) .
Awards Granted
(i) . A person who becomes an Eligible Director prior to December 31, 2007 shall be entitled to receive a number of Restricted Stock Units equal to the number obtained by dividing $350,000 by the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant; that if such a person is elected, appointed or otherwise becomes an Eligible Director after the date of the spin-off of the Company from Morgan Stanley, the initial equity award provided for in this Section 5(a)(i) shall be adjusted on a pro-rata basis by multiplying such award by a fraction where the numerator is twenty-four (24) minus the number of months between the date of such spin-off and the date that such person becomes an Eligible Director and the denominator is twenty-four (24).
Initial Awards
provided, however,
(ii) . As of the date of each Annual Meeting, each Eligible Director, including, without limitation, any Eligible Director who becomes a member of the Board by reason of being elected to the Board at such Annual Meeting, shall be entitled to receive a number of Restricted Stock Units equal to the number obtained by
Subsequent Awards
 
dividing $125,000 by the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on such day; , that such Eligible Director continues to serve as a director of the Company after such Annual Meeting. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a person becomes an Eligible Director on a date other than the date of an Annual Meeting, the equity award provided for in this Section 5(a)(ii) shall be granted on the date that such person becomes an Eligible Director, using the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on such date; that such award shall be adjusted on a pro-rata basis by multiplying such award by a fraction where the numerator is the number of months between the date that such person becomes an Eligible Director and the date of the next Annual Meeting and the denominator is twelve (12).
provided, however
provided, however,
(b) . Each Restricted Stock Unit granted pursuant to this Section 5 shall be evidenced by an agreement in such form as the Plan Administrators prescribes from time to time and shall comply with the following terms and conditions:
Agreements
(i) . Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to Section 5(a)(i) shall be subject to a restriction period whereby 50% of such units shall vest on the first anniversary of the date of grant and the remaining units shall vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant. Each grant of Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 5(a)(ii) shall vest on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan Administrators, in their discretion, may specify in the agreement circumstances under which the award shall become immediately transferable and nonforfeitable or under which the award shall be forfeited.
Restriction Period
(ii) .
Effect of Termination
(A) Unless provided otherwise in the applicable agreement, if an Eligible Director's service as a director of the Company terminates for a reason other than for Cause, then any Restricted Stock Unit granted to such Eligible Director shall vest following the date of such Eligible Director's termination of service in accordance with the following provisions:
(a) . If an Eligible Director's service terminates by reason of Disability or death, all Restricted Stock Units granted under the Plan to such Eligible Director shall become fully vested.
Disability or Death
(b) . If an Eligible Director's service terminates for any other reason, all Restricted Stock Units granted under the Plan to such Eligible Director shall be immediately cancelled and forfeited.
Other
(iii) . Unless provided otherwise in the applicable agreement, all Restricted Stock Units granted under the Plan to an Eligible Director shall become fully vested upon a Change in Control.
Effect of Change in Control
(iv) . The agreement relating to a Restricted Stock Unit shall specify whether the holder thereof shall be entitled to receive, on a current or deferred basis, dividend equivalents, or the deemed reinvestment of any deferred dividend equivalents, with respect to the number of shares
Rights and Provisions Applicable to Restricted Stock Units
 
of common stock subject to such award. Prior to the settlement of a Restricted Stock Unit, the holder thereof shall not have any rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to the shares of Stock subject to such award, except to the extent that the Plan Administrators, in their sole discretion, may grant dividend equivalents on Restricted Stock Units which are settled in shares of Stock. No shares of Stock and no certificates or other indicia of ownership representing shares of Stock that are subject to a Restricted Stock Unit shall be issued upon the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit. Instead, shares of Stock subject to Restricted Stock Units and the certificates or other indicia of ownership representing such shares of Stock shall be distributed only at the time of settlement of such Restricted Stock Units in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Plan and the agreements relating to such Restricted Stock Units.
(c) . Restricted Stock Units may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise conveyed by an Eligible Director.
Limitation on Transfer
(d) . Each Eligible Director may elect to defer an award of Restricted Stock Units in accordance with Section 6.
Deferral of Awards
Section 6. Deferral Elections
The Plan Administrators may permit the deferral of any Retainer or award granted under this Plan, subject to the rules and procedures as it may establish, in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the "") or other applicable law, and which may include provisions for the payment or crediting of dividend equivalents, on a current or deferred basis, or the deemed reinvestment of any deferred dividend equivalents, with respect to the number of shares Stock subject to such award.
Code
Section 7. Annual Retainers
(a) . Each Eligible Director shall be entitled to an Annual Retainer of $75,000.
Board Members
(b) . In addition to the Annual Retainer provided for in Section 7(a), the Lead Director shall be entitled to a Lead Director Retainer of $75,000, the Audit Committee Chair shall be entitled to a Committee Retainer of $50,000; the Compensation Committee Chair shall be entitled to a Committee Retainer of $25,000 and the Nominating and Governance Committee Chair shall be entitled to a Committee Retainer of $25,000.
Lead Director and Chairpersons
Section 8. Fair Market Value
"" shall mean, with respect to each share of Stock for any day:
Fair Market Value
(a) if the Stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the closing price, regular way, of the Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape, rounded up to the nearest whole cent, or if no such reported sale of the Stock has occurred on such date, on the most recent date such a reported sale occurred, or
 
(b) if the Stock is not so listed, but is listed on another national securities exchange or on the Nasdaq Global Market (""), the closing price, regular way, of the Stock on such exchange or Nasdaq, rounded up to the nearest whole cent, as the case may be, on the date on which the largest number of shares of Stock have been traded in the aggregate on the preceding twenty trading days, or, if no such reported sale of the Stock has occurred on such date on such exchange or Nasdaq, as the case may be, on the most recent date on which such a reported sale occurred on such exchange or Nasdaq, as the case may be, or
Nasdaq
(c) if the Stock is not listed for trading on a national securities exchange or Nasdaq, the average of the closing bid and ask prices as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, rounded up to the nearest whole cent, or, if no such prices shall have been so reported for such date, on the most recent date for which such prices were so reported.
Section 9. Issuance of Stock
(a) . All shares of Stock delivered under the Plan shall be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Company may deem advisable or legally necessary under any applicable laws, statutes, rules, regulations and other legal requirements, including, without limitation, those of any stock exchange upon which the Stock is then listed and any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law.
Restrictions on Transferability
(b) . Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, the Company shall not be required to issue any shares of Stock under the Plan if, in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the issuance and delivery of such shares would constitute a violation by the Eligible Director or the Company of any applicable law or regulation of any governmental authority, including, without limitation, federal and state securities laws, or the regulations of any stock exchanges on which the Company's securities may then be listed.
Compliance with Laws
Section 10. Withholding Taxes
The Company may require as a condition of delivery of any shares of Stock that the Eligible Director remit (i) in cash, (ii) by tendering (or attesting to the ownership of) shares of Stock, where the Company determines such action will not result in unfavorable accounting treatment or (iii) by the Company withholding shares of Stock, an amount sufficient to satisfy all applicable foreign, federal, state, local and other governmental withholding tax requirements relating thereto (if any) and any or all indebtedness or other obligation of the Eligible Director to the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Any shares tendered or withheld pursuant to this Section 10 will be valued at Fair Market Value on the relevant payment or exercise date, as applicable.
Section 11. Plan Amendments and Termination
The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time, in whole or in part. Termination of the Plan shall not adversely affect the rights of Eligible Directors with respect to outstanding awards granted pursuant to this Plan.
The Board may also alter, amend or modify the Plan at any time. These amendments may include (but are not limited to) changes that the Board considers necessary or advisable as a result of changes in, or the adoption or interpretation of, any law, regulation, ruling, judicial
 
decision or accounting standards (collectively, ""). The Board may not amend or modify the Plan in a manner that would materially impair an Eligible Director's rights in any outstanding award granted pursuant to this Plan without the Eligible Director's consent; that the Board may, without an Eligible Director's consent, amend or modify the Plan in any manner that it considers necessary or advisable to comply with any Legal Requirement or to ensure that awards granted pursuant to the Plan are not subject to Federal, state or local income tax prior to payment.
Legal Requirements
provided, however,
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any provision of this Plan would, in the reasonable, good faith judgment of the Company, result in or likely result in the imposition on any Eligible Director or any other person of any tax, interest or penalty under Section 409A of the Code, the Company may unilaterally amend or reform this Plan or any provision hereof, without the consent of any Eligible Director, in the manner that the Company reasonably and in good faith determines to be necessary or advisable to avoid the imposition of such tax, interest or penalty; that any such amendment or reformation shall, to the maximum extent the Company reasonably and in good faith determines to be possible, retain the economic and tax benefits to the Eligible Directors hereunder while not materially increasing the cost to the Company of providing such benefits to the Eligible Directors.
provided, however,
Section 12. Listing, Registration and Legal Compliance
If the Plan Administrators at any time determine that any Consent (as hereinafter defined) is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of any award under the Plan, the issuance or purchase of shares or other rights hereunder or the taking of any other action hereunder (each such action being hereinafter referred to as a ""), then such Plan Action shall not be taken, in whole or in part, unless and until such Consent has been effected or obtained. The term "" as used herein with respect to any Plan Action means (i) the listing, registrations or qualifications in respect thereof upon any securities exchange or under any foreign, federal, state or local law, rule or regulation, (ii) any and all consents, clearances and approvals in respect of a Plan Action by any governmental or other regulatory bodies, or (iii) any and all written agreements and representations by an Eligible Director with respect to the disposition of Stock or with respect to any other matter, which the Plan Administrators deems necessary or desirable in order to comply with the terms of any such listing, registration or qualification or to obtain an exemption from the requirement that any such listing, qualification or registration be made.
Plan Action
Consent
Section 13. Right Reserved
Nothing in the Plan shall confer upon any Eligible Director the right to continue as a director of the Company or affect any right that the Company or any Eligible Director may have to terminate the service of such Eligible Director.
Section 14. Rights as a Stockholder
An Eligible Director shall not, by reason of any Restricted Stock Unit or any other award hereunder, have any rights as a stockholder of the Company until Stock has been issued to such Eligible Director.
 
Section 15. Unfunded Plan
The Plan shall be unfunded and shall not create (or be construed to create) a trust or a separate fund or funds. The Plan shall not establish any fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Eligible Director or other person. To the extent any person holds any rights by virtue of a pending grant or deferral under the Plan, such rights shall be no greater than the rights of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.
Section 16. Governing Law
The Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely within such state.
Section 17. Severability
If any part of the Plan is declared by any court or governmental authority to be unlawful or invalid, such unlawfulness or invalidity shall not invalidate any portion of the Plan not declared to be unlawful or invalid. Any Section or part of a Section so declared to be unlawful or invalid shall, if possible, be construed in a manner that will give effect to the terms of such Section or part of a Section to the fullest extent possible while remaining lawful and valid.
Section 18. Notices
All notices and other communications hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be deemed given when personally delivered against receipt or five days after having been mailed by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed as follows; (a) if to the Company: Discover Financial Services, 2500 Lake Cook Road, Riverwoods IL 60015, Attention: Corporate Secretary; and (b) if to an Eligible Director, at the Eligible Director's principal residential address last furnished to the Company. Either party may, by notice, change the address to which notice to such party is to be given.
Section 19. Section Headings
The Section headings contained herein are for the purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the contents of said Sections.
Section 20. Definitions
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated below:
"" means an annual meeting of the Company's stockholders.
Annual Meeting
"" means an annual cash retainer for services as a member of the Board.
Annual Retainer
"" means the board of directors of the Company.
Board
 
"" means, with respect to any Eligible Director termination of service on the Board on account of any act of (A) fraud or intentional misrepresentation, or (B) embezzlement, misappropriation or conversion of assets or opportunities of the Company or any affiliate.
Cause
"" means, except as provided otherwise below, the first to occur of any of the following events:
Change in Control
(a) any person (as defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), as such term is modified in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than (i) any employee plan established by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) any group of employees holding shares subject to agreements relating to the voting of such shares, (iii) the Company or any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act), (iv) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (v) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company, is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its affiliates other than in connection with the acquisition by the Company or its affiliates of a business) representing 30% or more of either the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company;
Exchange Act
(b) a change in the composition of the Board such that individuals who, as of the date of the award, constitute the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; that any individual becoming a member of the Board subsequent to the date of the award whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than the Board;
Incumbent Board
provided, however,
(c) the consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation or other entity, or the issuance of voting securities in connection with a merger or consolidation of the Company (or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company) pursuant to applicable stock exchange requirements, other than (A) a merger or consolidation which results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (B) a merger of consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no person (determined pursuant to clause (a) above) is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its affiliates other than in connection with the acquisition by the Company
 
or its affiliates of a business) representing 30% or more of either the then outstanding shares of the Company's common stock or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities; or
(d) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by persons in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if there is consummated any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the Company's common stock immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns substantially all of the assets of the Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.
Code
"" means an annual cash retainer for services as a member of any committee of the Board.
Committee Retainer
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.
Company
"" has the meaning set forth in Section l2.
Consent
"" means a "permanent and total disability" as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
Disability
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.
Eligible Directors
"" has the meaning set for in Section 20.
Exchange Act
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.
Fair Market Value
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 20.
Incumbent Board
"" means an annual cash retainer for services as the lead director of the Board.
Lead Director Retainer
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.
Legal Requirements
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.
Nasdaq
"" means the termination of service on the Board for retirement at or after attaining age 65, other than termination for Cause, Disability or death.
Normal Retirement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.
Plan
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 12.
Plan Action
"" means the right to receive one share of Stock or the Fair Market Value thereof in cash for each unit awarded subject to the expiration of a specified restriction period and subject to any additional restrictions that may be contained in the agreement relating thereto.
Restricted Stock Units
"" means the Annual Retainer, the Committee Retainer and/or the Lead Director Retainer, as applicable.
Retainer
"" means the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and any other shares into which such stock shall thereafter be changed by reason of any merger, reorganization, recapitalization, consolidation, split-up, combination of shares or similar event as set forth in and in accordance with Section 4.
Stock
 


